NIPPON LIGHT METAL CONTINUES ALUMINIUM OUTPUT CUT Nippon Light Metal Co Ltd <NLGT.T>, whichhas annual capacity of 63,000 tonnes, will continue primaryaluminium production at a rate of 35,000 tonnes owing to lowdomestic and world prices and low water supplies at itshydroelectric power plant, a company official said.    Nippon, which has no plans to restore output to the 48,000tonnes a year at which it was working until late 1986, willbecome Japan's only smelter.    <Ryoka Light Metal Industries Ltd> will stop smelting inApril owing to high power costs and low prices, and <MitsuiAluminium Co Ltd> has said it stopped smelting in February. REUTER
ALCAN TO CLOSE WEST GERMAN ALUMINIUM SMELTER <Alcan AluminiumwerkeGmbH>, a subsidiary of Alcan Aluminium Ltd <AL.N> of Canada,said it plans to close its aluminium smelter in Ludwigshafen atthe end of June.    A spokesman said Alcan was closing the smelter, with annualcapacity of 44,000 tonnes and 320 employees, because of highelectricity costs and the low world market price of aluminium.    Alkan had said earlier this year it would close half theplant's capacity but decided to shut down completely when talkswith potential cooperation partners failed, the spokesman said.He declined to name the other companies involved in the talks. REUTER
COMALCO SAYS LOWER COSTS HELPED RETURN TO PROFITS Comalco Ltd <CMAC.S> said its returnto profit reflected reduced costs, improved primary aluminiumprices and its withdrawal from a Japanese smelter venture.    It said the earlier reported 57.1 mln dlr profit for theyear ended December 31 against a 69.13 mln dlr loss in 1985 wasalso aided by lower interest rates on U.S. Dollar debt andgreater sales of bauxite and aluminium.    Comalco said it expected to pay at least a four cents pershare final, dividend delayed until July 1 to take advantage ofproposed dividend imputation laws.    This would make five cents for the year against a first andfinal of one cent in 1985.    Comalco said the aluminium industry continued to sufferfrom low prices and excess capacity, though the weak Australiandollar had helped earnings.    Withdrawal from the <Showa Aluminium Industries KK> jointventure had been recapitalised in expansion by the <New ZealandAluminium Smelters Ltd> project with Japan's <SumitomoAluminium Smelting Co Ltd>, permitting repayments and increasesin liquid funds totalling 165 mln dlrs, it said.    As previously reported Comalco's <Commonwealth AluminiumCorp> unit has conditionally agreed to sell its smelter atGoldendale, Washington, and port facilities at Portland, Oregonto <Columbia Aluminium Corp>.    Comalco said it had made a 27.3 mln dlr extraordinaryprovision for Goldendale losses and closure costs but that ifthe sales agreement were completed it would reduce theprovision made in the 1986 accounts.    The other items in the total extraordinary loss of 140.5mln dlrs were a 102.9 mln write-off of unrealised exchangelosses and 10.3 mln for an increase in future tax provision. REUTER
COMALCO SAYS LOWER COSTS HELP RETURN TO PROFITS Comalco Ltd said its return to profitreflected reduced costs, improved primary aluminium prices andits withdrawal from a Japanese smelter venture.    It said the earlier reported 57.1 mln dlr profit for theyear ended December 31 against a 69.13 mln dlr loss in 1985 wasalso aided by lower interest rates on U.S. Dollar debt andgreater sales of bauxite and aluminium.    Comalco said it expected to pay at least a four cents pershare final dividend, delayed until July 1 to take advantage ofproposed dividend imputation laws.    This would make five cents for the year against a first andfinal of one cent in 1985.    Comalco said the aluminium industry continues to sufferfrom low prices and excess capacity, though the weak Australiandollar had helped earnings.    Comalco's Commonwealth Aluminium Corp unit said earlier ithas conditionally agreed to sell its Goldendale smelter inWashington, and port facilities at Portland, Oregon to ColumbiaAluminium Corp. Comalco said its extraordinary provision of27.3 mln dlrs costs for Goldendale losses and closure may bereduced if the sales agreement were completed. REUTER
ALCAN, BERTONE MAKE ALUMINUM STRUCTURE CAR Alcan Aluminium Ltd said it joined withCarrozzeria Bertone S.P.A. to exhibit Alcan's technology inaluminum structured vehicles at Geneva's international autosalon.    Alcan said it and Bertone have built several Bertone X1/9sports cars with structures of adhesively bonded sheetaluminum. It said the bodies were made on presses used forBertone's steel-structured sports cars.    Alcan said two of the cars are currently being tested inBritain by the Motor Industry Research Association.     Alcan said it has developed and tested the aluminumstructure technology so that it is suitable for modern automaking methods and plants.    Alcan said the technology, which reduces the weight of acar's basic structure by up to 50 pct, can improve handling andperformance and reduce fuel consumption for any size car. Itsaid the structures also provide long life without the need forrust protection.    The structure provides the same stiffness and safety aspresent materials, while continuously bonded seams allow a 65pct reduction in spot welds, Alcan said. Reuter
ALCAN (AL) TO CLOSE WEST GERMAN SMELTER (Alcan Aluminium Ltd) is closing itsaluminum smelter in Ludwigshafen, West Germany this June due tohigh operating costs, an Alcan spokesman said.    The smelter, near Frankfurt, had annual capacity of about44,000 metric tons but was operating at about half that inJanuary, spokesman Fernand Leclerc said.    Leclerc said Alcan decided it would cost too much tomodernize the plant.    He said there is a possibility the company will sell thesmelter, which currently employs 320 people, before itsscheduled closing.              Reuter
KAISER ALUMINUM <KLU> RAISES PRODUCT PRICES Kaiser Aluminum and ChemicalCorp said it is increasing prices for a broad range of commonalloy coil, flat sheet and plate products.    The company said prices to distributors and directcustomers on shipments of new orders placed March 4 and afterwill be increased by four to eight cts per lb.    Kaiser said the increases are due to increased demand andthe need to set prices relative to the cost of primaryaluminum. Reuter
ALCOA DECLINES SPECIFIC COMMENT ON OPTIONS TRADE Alcoa officials acknowledged thepossibility that they may have a position in the off-exchangealuminum options market, but declined specific comment on tradespeculation that the company is holding a large outstandingposition.    An Alcoa (Aluminum Company of America) source involved interminal trading for the company said: "We use all meansavailable to manage our business, so it's a possibility we'retrading options."    "We won't go into specifics about what we're doing. Butwhen you're dealing in un-alloyed ingot, it's a commoditybusiness where there are a lot of tools available (for hedging)and Alcoa is using all of those tools," said Al Posti, Alcoa'smanager of corporate news.    Trade sources have said Alcoa is long call options equal to30,000 to 50,000 tonnes of aluminum due to mature in April andMay. However, some New York-based aluminium traders said theybelieve the size of Alcoa's position has been exaggerated.    The possibility that Alcoa may be long call options is onefactor indicating that supply tightness may worsen in thesecond quarter, traders said.    "If they decide to exercise their right to buy, it wouldmean really squeezing the market," one New York trader said,noting that aluminum stocks on the London Metal Exchange were90,500 tonnes at the end of last week. Reuter
ALUSUISSE PLANS FURTHER ALUMINIUM CAPACITY CUTS Schweizerische Aluminium AG <ALUZ.Z>(Alusuisse) plans further drastic cuts in its aluminiumsmelting capacity and more concentration of higher value-addedproducts, chief executive Hans Jucker said.    Elaborating on plans disclosed in outline last September,company officials said current smelting capacity of 390,000tonnes a year would be cut to between 250,000 and 260,000tonnes by 1989 or 1990. They did not say where cuts might bemade.    Two years ago, before selling its Ormet Corp subsidiary inthe United States to local management and staff, Alusuisse hadan annual capacity of 800,000 tonnes. REUTER
PECHINEY <PUKG.PA> SIGNS SOVIET PACKAGING ACCORDS French state-owned aluminium and specialmetals group Pechiney said it has signed two protocols ofintent to set up joint ventures with the Soviet Union.    Pechiney said in a statement one accord was to set up jointventures manufacturing aluminium packaging for food andcosmetics, while another was to produce machinery tomanufacture packaging.    Under the latter, Pechiney, which does not manufacturepackaging equipment, will form and lead a consortium of yetunspecified European partners, a spokesman said.    He said it was early to put figures on possible deals, oroutline what form joint ventures would take.    The statement said joint working groups for each accord hada three-month deadline to come up with contract proposals.    No firm contracts have yet been finalised under new lawsenabling joint ventures, First Deputy Prime Minister andChairman of the State Agro-Industrial Committee (GOSAGROPROM)Vsevolod Murakhovsky told journalists here on Wednesday. REUTER
PECHINEY SIGNS LETTERS OF INTENT WITH SOVIET UNION Pechiney <PUKG.PA> said it signed twoletters of intent with the Soviet Union covering the setting upof packaging and packaging materials joint ventures.    It said one proposed venture would produce  aluminiumpackaging for food and cosmetics. The other envisaged Pechineyputting together a consortium of  European partners to set up apackaging and equipment manufacturing unit in the Soviet Union.    A Pechiney spokesman said two working groups would preparedetailed projects over the next three months. He said it wastoo soon to estimate the financial value of the two ventures. REUTER
BILLITON SEEKS CHANGE IN SURINAM POLICIES <BillitonInternational Metals B.V.>, the Dutch mining company, has urgedSurinam to change policies it says are causing heavy losses onbauxite mining operations there, a company spokesman said.    He told Reuters that Billiton, a fully-owned RoyalDutch/Shell <RD.AS> subsidiary, presented the demands to HenkHeidweiler, a top aide to Surinam military leader DesiBouterse, who visited the Netherlands last week for officialtalks.    Billiton and <Suralco>, owned by U.S. Conglomerate Alcoa<AA.S>, both want devaluation, and lower wages, welfarecontributions, taxes on bauxite and energy prices.    The two firms are the biggest private sector employers inSurinam. Billiton also urged Heidweiler to improve the safetyof its employees in the campaign against a jungle guerillagroup, the spokesman said, adding rebel fighting since July1986 had depressed production at Billiton and Suralco plants.    High voltage cables from the power plant of Afobakka havebeen cut, and a bauxite mine at Moengo has been shut, he added.    "We are already making vast losses in Surinam and you can'texpect any company to remain operating with losses," thespokesman said. REUTER
SURALCO ALUMINA EXPORTS DROPPED 75 PCT IN FEB The Surinam Aluminum Company(SURALCO) registered a 75 pct drop in alumina exports inFebruary after its operations were shut down by worker violenceand guerrilla sabotage, the official Surinam News Agency, SNA,reported.    SNA said Suralco's alumina exports dropped to 23,869 tonnesin February from 92,852 tonnes in January. Aluminum exports,meanwhile, decreased nine pct in the same period, to 1,511tonnes from 1,647 tonnes.    Suralco's alumina refinery at Paranam, 18 miles south ofthe capital, was shut down February 2 after workers destroyedplant and computer equipment in a protest over layoffs at thecompany's nearby aluminum smelter.    The smelter was shut down January 26 after anti-governmentguerrillas dynamited two electricity towers which transmitpower to the plant from the Afobaka dam.    The alumina refinery, owned jointly by Suralco and BillitonNV, a Royal Dutch Shell subsidiary, was reopened March 9. Butthe smelter remains closed, as do the Suralco mines at Moengo,60 miles east of Paramaribo, which were closed down byguerrillas last November. Reuter
SURALCO BAUXITE REFINERY REOPENED The 1.4 mln tonnes capacity bauxiterefinery at Paranam in Surinam, which closed at the end ofJanuary after being sabotaged by anti-government rebels, hasnow reopened, a spokesman for Dutch metals company Billitonsaid.    The refinery is run by Suralco, jointly owned by the U.S.Company Alcoa and the Dutch company Billiton, which is awholly-owned subsidiary of Royal Dutch Shell.    Production of alumina at the refinery is currently runningat around 3,000 tonnes a day and is expected to get back tofull capacity of 4,000 tonnes within a week, the Billitonspokesman added.    The refinery was forced to close at the end of January whenrebels cut the main power line.    Earlier, the refinery had had to import some supplies ofbauxite, as rebel activity shut off supplies from Alcoa's mineat Moengo in the east of the country.    Billiton's mine at Onverdacht, between Paranam and thecapital Paramaribo, is still working but Moengo remains closedand the refinery is continuing to import some bauxite, theBilliton spokesman said. Reuter
KENTUCKY SMELTERS GET RELIEF ON HIGHER RATES Owners of two aluminum smelters inKentucky received temporary relief from higher electric ratesafter a decision Tuesday by state regulators denying a ratehike to (Big Rivers Electric Corp) of Henderson, Ky.    But the owners of the smelters, (National SouthwireAluminum Co) and Alcan Aluminium Ltd <AL>, said furtherviability of the operations would depend in part upon how therate case is eventually settled.    "We're hoping for no rate increases but we can't say forsure. It's still possible we'll have to close the smelter," aNational Southwire spokesman said. He said there were othervariables to consider in any decision whether to close orcontinue the smelter, located in Hawesville, about 60 mileswest of Louisville.    National Southwire is owned by National Intergroup Inc<NII>, which holds about 55 pct, and (Southwire Co), whichholds the rest, the spokesman said.    A spokesman for Montreal-based Alcan said, "The decision is48 pages long and is in legal-ese, so it certainly will be along time before we can make a decision" about what it meansfor the Sebree smelter in Henderson, about 100 miles west ofLouisville. "But we're delighted that Big Rivers Electric wasdenied the requested rate increase."    A spokesman for the utility, a cooperative that generatesand wholesales electricity to four distributors, said therequested increase was 7.5 mln dlrs a year over 1985 rates.    The Kentucky Public Service Commission, in denying theincrease, asked the utility to meet with creditors, whichinclude Manufacturers Hanover Corp <MHC> and Irving Bank Corp<V>, and the smelters, to renegotiate a rate plan, the utilityspokesman said.    The commission suggested that Big Rivers Electric work outa flexible rate schedule with the smelters that would indextheir electric costs to the price of aluminum, he said.    "We have always been amenable to try, as far as we can, toassure that the two aluminum smelters remain viable," he said.    No meetings are scheduled and none have been plannedbetween the utility, its creditors and the aluminum plantowners. The commission has set a hearing on the rate issue forJuly 28. Reuter
 Feb daily ave unwrought aluminium output 33,900 tonnes, up 400 tonne Moody's Investors Service said itassigned the following ratings to new eurobonds.    AAA ratings were assigned to:    Eastman Kodak Co's 135 mln U.S. Dlrs of 7-1/8 pct euronotesdue 1987.    Morgan Guaranty Trust Co of New York's 100 mln Canadiandlrs of 8-1/2 pct receipts for Government of Canada bonds due1994.    Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG's 100 mln Canadian dlrs ofnine pct guaranteed eurobonds due 1997.    Swedish Export Credit's 220 mln Australian dlrs of 9-1/2pct dual currency eurobonds due 1992.    Moody's said it also assigned AAA ratings to:    European Coal and Steel Community's 100 mln stg 9-3/8 pcteurobonds due 1992.    Nordic Investment Bank's 300 mln Danish crown 11-1/4 pcteurobonds due 1994.    The World Bank's one billion Luxembourg francs of seven pcteurobonds due 1997.    Credit Foncier's 150 mln European Currency Units (ECUs) of7-5/8 pct eurobonds due 1994.    Moody's said it also assigned ratings to euroyen bonds,with AAA ratings assigned to the following:    Societe Generale's 19 billion yen zero coupon notes due1992.    Export Development Corp's 15 billion yen of 4-1/2 pcteuroyen bonds due 1992.    Exportfinans' 15 billion yen of five pct eurobonds due1992.    Toronto Dominion Bank's 20 billion yen of 4-5/8 pct euroyenbonds due 1992.    A AA1 rating was assigned to DNC International Finance AS'10 billion yen of five pct guaranteed eurobonds due 1994.    Moody's said it assigned a AA2 rating to Toyota MotorCredit Co's 23 billion yen of 4-1/2 pct euroyen bonds due 1992.    Nissan Motor Co Ltd's 35 billion yen of 5-1/8 pct euroyenbonds due 1992 gained an A2 rating.    Ford Motor Credit Co's 200 mln marks of 5-3/4 pct eurobondsdue 1992 were assigned an A1 rating. REUTER
NON-COMMUNIST FEBRUARY ALUMINIUM OUTPUT UP, IPAI Non-Communist daily average unwroughtaluminium production in February was 33,900 tonnes, up 400tonnes from a downwardly revised 33,500 tonnes in January andcompared with 32,900 tonnes in February 1986, provisionalfigures from the International Primary Aluminium Institute(IPAI) show.    Total production in February (28 days) was 949,000 tonnescompared with a downwardly revised 1.038 mln in January (31days) and 920,000 in February 1986.    The regional breakdown of unwrought aluminium productionwas as follows (in thousands of tonnes) the IPAI said.                 Feb'87   Jan'87    Feb'86    Africa           45       50        41    North America   354      389       353    Latin America   115      121        98    East Asia         7        9        16    South Asia       72       79        72    Europe          268      293       256    Oceania          88       97        84 REUTER
NEWMAN, HAWKER DISCUSS ELECTRIC MOTOR MERGER <Newman Industries Plc> said it wasdiscussing the possible merger of its electric motor operationswith Hawker Siddeley Group Plc's <HSID.L> <Brook CromptonParkinson Motors Ltd> unit.    Newman has electric motor operations in the U.K. AndAustralia. The company gave no further details but said afurther statement would be made shortly.    Newman shares eased one penny on the announcement to 43pwhile Hawker was unchanged at 528p, three pence higher on lastnight's close. REUTER
ALCAN UPS ALUMINIUM INGOT AND BILLET PRICES Alcan Aluminium Ltd. in Montreal saidit increased yesterday its prices for unalloyed ingot andextrusion billet by two cents a lb, effective with shipmentsbeginning May 1.    The new price for unalloyed ingot is 64.5 cents a lb whilethe new price for extrusion billet is 72.5 cents a lb.    "We feel very confident about raising our prices because wesee demand over supply as being sustainable for some time,"said Ian Rugeroni, Alcan's president of metal sales andrecycling - U.S.A.    Rugeroni said sheet and can bookings for Alcan aluminiumwere up at a time when the company's total 1.1 mln tonne NorthAmerican smelter system had less than a week's supply.    "We're short and we're buying," he said.    Rugeroni added that Alcan expects the International PrimaryAluminum Institute to report a drop in total non-Socialiststocks in February and March. He estimated supply in the lattermonth will have fallen 100,000 to 150,000 tonnes, based in parton current low inventories of aluminium in Japan and on theLondon Metal Exchange. reuter
NORANDA RAISES PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRICES Noranda Aluminum Inc. said it hasincreased its primary aluminum prices by two cents a lb,effective with new orders as of March 25 and all shipmentsbeginning May 1.    The new price for unalloyed ingot will be 64.5 cents a lbwhile the new price for extrusion billet will be 72.5 cents alb. Reuter
ALUMINIUM SCRAP RECOVERY AND USAGE TO RISE Aluminium scrap recovery and usage andoutput of secondary metal will continue to rise, said ShearsonLehman Brothers in a review of the secondary aluminium marketwhich details cost and demand factors.    Although primary smelting costs have declined generally inrecent years, the still substantial energy cost savings offeredby secondary smelters will continue to make re-melted materialincreasingly attractive.    It takes around 15,000 kilowatt hours (kwh) of electricityto produce one tonne of primary aluminium compared with around550 kwh for one tonne of secondary metal, Shearson said.    On the demand side, developments in automobiles andpackaging bode well for secondary aluminium consumption.    Automobile production, although expected to fall this year,is still on an upward trend and will continue to be so for theforeseeable future and, in addition, use of aluminium castingsis gaining wider acceptance in the automobile industry,particularly in the U.S.    In packaging, Shearson does not expect aluminium todominate the beverage can market in any of the other majoreconomies to the extent it does in the U.S., But says there isevidence recycling is on the increase in other countries.    In addition to the cost savings involved, technologyadvances now enable alloys of higher purity to be produced bythe secondary aluminium industry, Shearson said.    There is not likely to be a problem of availability as theU.S. Has a huge scrap reservoir and this is also true ofseveral European countries, albeit on a smaller scale. Reuter
OREGON ALUMINUM SMELTER INCREASING OUTPUT Northwest Aluminum Co said itwill open a second pot line in mid-May, bringing the smelterhere to 80 pct of its production capacity.    Northwest Aluminum President Brett Wilcox, who leased the30-year-old smelter from Martin Marietta Corp., said productionwould increase from around 45 tons a year at present to justover 70 tons.    Martin Marietta closed and mothballed the smelter in 1984.Northwest Aluminum reopened it last December.    Wilcox said a good aluminum market and several months ofsuccessful operation led to the decision to expand production. Reuter
JAPAN ALUMINIUM OUTPUT FALLS IN FEBRUARY Japanese aluminium output fell to 5,298tonnes in February from 7,472 in January and 14,280 a yearearlier, preliminary International Trade and Industry Ministryfigures show.    Output fell sharply from a year ago as most aluminium firmsstopped smelting in the past year due to cheap imports,industry sources said.    Sales and end-month stocks in tonnes were:            Feb 87   Jan 87   Feb 86    Sales   36,557   38,678   75,687    Stocks  53,248   56,620  127,083 REUTER
SINGAPORE WELCOMES NEW LME ALUMINIUM CONTRACT MOVE Singapore welcomed the London MetalExchange's (LME) decision to list Singapore as a delivery pointfor the LME's new dollar-denominated aluminium contract.    Tay Thiam Peng, manager for international trading at theTrade Development Board, said the decision would boostSingapore's image as a major delivery port.    "We hope this will encourage more metal traders to set upshop here and that Singapore can become a delivery port forother metals as well," he said.    The new contract, to start trading on June 1, is LME'sfirst dollar-contract. REUTER
VENEZUELA PLANS METALS INVESTMENT FOR 1987-89 The Venezuela Guayana Corporation, CVG,which oversees the state steel, iron, aluminum and otherindustries, will invest 75 billion bolivars in new projectsduring 1987-89, CVG president Leopoldo Sucre Figarellaannounced.    The investments will go to plant expansion, infrastructureand the extension of hydroelectric facilities in themineral-rich Guayana region, south of the Orinoco river.    Sucre Figarella told a news conference the CVG's 12companies showed an overall increase of 120 pct in profits,which rose from 1.732 billion bolivars in 1985 to 3.926 billionbolivars last year.    Among the best performers was steel company Sidor whichearned 1.019 billion bolivars, the first time since 1978 Sidorturned a profit.    The gain was made possible in part by the refinancing of1.619 mln dollars of foreign debt.    CVG's three aluminum companies also showed substantialgains. Interalumina, which makes the intermediate materialalumina, had an increase in profits from 116 to 217 mlnbolivars, Alcasa earned 487 mln bolivars, as compared to 1985's412 mln and Venalum's profits rose by around half, from 1.042to 1.504 bln bolivars.    Meanwhile, the state iron company Ferrominera saw itsprofits rise from 156 mln bolivars in 1985 to 204 mln bolivarslast year. Reuter
ALUMINIUM CAPACITY GROWTH TREND SEEN INSUFFICIENT Aluminium capacity expansion planned forthe period after 1990 will be insufficient to supply anyacceleration in demand growth, let alone an increase on thescale which seems likely, according to analyst Anthony BirdAssociates' 1987 Aluminium Review.    By 1995 non-socialist world primary capacity will need tobe around 18 mln tonnes, whereas on current plans only 15 mlntonnes are scheduled, Bird said.    Bird forecast higher economic growth after 1990 andincreased imports by less developed countries.    Aluminium consumption growth is not expected to accelerateby as much as general growth, but non-socialist worldconsumption is nevertheless forecast to increase sharply from13.77 mln tonnes in 1990 to 17.25 mln tonnes in 1995, Birdsaid.    Aluminium companies were slow to adjust to the pace ofchange after 1973, the review said, and now they have completedthis transition they may be in danger of remaining preoccupiedwith the strategies of retrenchment and survival which haveserved them well in recent years.    In order to encourage the construction of additionalsmelters aluminium prices will need to settle at a higherlevel.    Production costs are likely to rise again in the yearsahead as the glut of alumina capacity vanishes and electricitysuppliers take a more aggressive line with aluminium companies,according to the review.    At March 1987 prices the three most likely cost-pricescenarios call for a long-run aluminium price of between 73 and89.5 cents a lb, depending on exchange rates, Bird said.    Such a price development is not expected to cause anymarked competitive problems for the metal because of the likelyrise in commodity prices as a whole and cost pressures in thepipeline for steel and copper.    In the short term, however, the outlook is dull, Bird said,as the world economy has not responded well to theopportunities offered by cheap oil.    Its 1987 consumption forecast of 13.01 mln tonnes is 0.4pct down on 1986, while production is forecast six pct higherin 1987 at 12.67 mln tonnes. Reuter
LME LISTS BRAZILIAN ALUMINIUM BRAND The London Metal Exchange (LME) haslisted the aluminium brand "CBA' produced by Cia Brasileira deAluminio at its Mairinque, Sao Paulo, plant.    The brand will constitute good delivery from April 1, theLME said. Reuter
ALCAN AUSTRALIA LIFTS ALUMINIUM INGOT PRICE Alcan Australia Ltd said it increased thelist price of 99.5 pct purity aluminium ingot to 2,050 dlrs atonne from 1,950 dlrs, effective immediately. REUTER
LME DETAILS MARCH 1987 TURNOVER The London Metal Exchange, LME, issuedturnovers for March 1987, with figures for corresponding period1986 in brackets.    All in tonnes except Silver which in troy ounces.    Copper higher grade nil (2,526,425), Standard cathodes nil(6,325), Grade A 2,429,200 (nil), Standard Copper 17,050 (nil),Lead 443,850 (538,750), Zinc High grade 598,550 (304,825),Silver large 10,350,000 (17,400,000), Small nil (2,000),Aluminium 1,693,375 (1,301,850), Nickel 62,004 (65,040).    Cumulative figures for January-March were as follows -Copper higher grade nil (7,703,625), Standard cathodes nil(24,700), Grade A 6,455,525 (nil), Standard Copper 62,075(nil), Lead 1,567,000 (1,979,750), Zinc High grade 1,746,675(1,356,400), Silver large 41,770,000 (65,620,000), Small nil(8,000), Aluminium 4,984,650 (4,974,950), Nickel 199,944(179,328). Reuter
SURALCO OFFERS CASH FOR WORKERS TO LEAVE The U.S.-owned <Surinam AluminumCompany> (SURALCO) offered workers a lump sum and up to fivemonths' wages to quit the firm because jungle-based rebels havedisrupted bauxite mining and alumina smelting, ANP said.    The Dutch news agency said SURALCO, a subsidiary of theAluminum Company of America(ALCOA) wanted to reduce its workforce because it had been hard hit by guerrilla attacks thatcut power lines to the area in January.    All bauxite mining at Moengo ceased four months ago andSURALCO's Paranam alumina smelter is using imported bauxite. Reuter
SHOWA DENKO EXPORTS ALUMINIUM CASTING EQUIPMENT <Showa Denko Ltd> said it is exportingaluminium billet casting equipment and technology to countriesthat have recently begun aluminium smelting.    A company official said it won a 500 mln yen order todeliver 10 sets of casting equipment to Venezuela's Venalum byend-1987. He said it received an order for one set fromAluminium Bahrain B.S.C. Last year and expects further ordersfrom the Bahrain smelter.    Showa Denko withdrew from smelting last year but expects toincrease its sales of equipment and technology, he said. REUTER
LME CLARIFIES NEW ALUMINIUM CONTRACT DETAILS The London Metal Exchange (LME) hasissued a note clarifying details on its new high gradealuminium contract, in response to questions from membersfollowing the announcement of the contract, due to start June1. All deliverable shapes of aluminium under the high gradeprimary aluminium contract (minimum 99.7 pct purity) will alsobe deliverable against the standard primary aluminium contract(min 99.5 pct), the LME said.    Sows will not constitute good delivery against the standardcontract until September 1, and 99.5 pct purity sows are notgood delivery and cannot be placed on LME warrant.    The dollar quotation for the high grade contract will be inmultiples of one U.S. Dollar but carries may be made at 50cents for even tonnages only.    Singapore, which is the first port warehouse outside Europeto be used as an LME delivery point, will be used for highgrade metal only and the rent imposed by owners Steinweg willbe 1.05 U.S. Dlr a tonne per week, the LME said.    The LME Board, in response to representation from thetrade, agreed to annul from LME contracts the minimum weightrequirements of 450 kilos for T-bars and 250 kilos for sows,effective for high grade on June 1 and for standard on July 24. REUTER
WORK ON GREEK ALUMINA PLANT TO START END MAY Preparatory work for construction of a450 mln dlr alumina plant near the village of Aghia Efthymia inthe Greek province of Fokida will begin at the end of nextmonth and the plant will be operational by 1992, IndustryUndersecretary George Petsos said.    Greece yesterday signed contracts with the Soviet Union forthe joint venture project, the biggest investment in thecountry for 20 years.    Petsos said the Soviet Union, which had initially agreed tobuy 380,000 tonnes, would now purchase the plant's entireoutput of 600,000 tonnes a year. Reuter
COMMONWEALTH ALUMINUM PUTS PLANT ON THE BLOCK Commonwealth Aluminum(Comalco) said it put its Goldendale, Wash., smelter back onthe market after would-be buyer, Columbia Aluminum Corp, ofHermiston, Ore., failed to pull together financing by an Aprilone deadline.    The plant, which has an asking price of 18.7 mln dlrs plusseveral mln more dlrs for inventory, it said. Commonwealth saidit is continuing talks with Columbia, but has also opened talkswith other interested parties.    Commonwealth bought the plant in January 1985 and closed itFeb 15, 1987, leaving about 400 workers jobless.   Reuter
CHINA TO OPEN FIRST PHASE OF LARGE ALUMINIUM PLANT China, a major aluminium importer, willopen the first phase of its biggest aluminium plant on October1, the China Daily said.    The first phase of the plant, located in Qinghai province,will have an annual capacity of 100,000 tonnes of ingots, halfthe capacity of the finished plant. It will turn out 4,000tonnes in 1987, the paper said, but gave no more details.    Construction of the 510 mln yuan plant began in April 1984.    Customs figures show China imported 266,241 tonnes ofaluminium and alloy in 1986, down from 487,862 in 1985. REUTER
FORD <F> DEVELOPING ALUMINUM CAR FRAME Ford Motor Co said it is developing analuminum space frame for its Probe V concept car using extrudedstretch-formed aluminum that could lead to new techniques forbuilding production cars in the future.    It said the frame would reduce vehicle weight and costwhile maintaining structural integrity and crashworthiness. Theframe has fewer parts than conventional steel frames, Fordsaid.  The company said the lighter weight would allow smallerpowertrains and suspensions, further reducing weight andimproving fuel economy.    Ford said in addition, extrusion dies cost 1,000 to 12,000dlrs each, compared with hundreds of thousands of dollars forsteel stamping dies, and using extruded aluminum the number ofwelds in a car could be reduced to about 40 from over 2,000. Reuter
ALCOA OF AUSTRALIA REPORTS INCREASED EARNINGS Alcoa of Australia Ltd <AA.S>, owned51 pct by the Aluminum Co of America <AA>, said net profit roseto 20.2 mln dlrs in the first quarter of 1987 from 0.8 mln inthe same 1986 period.    Sales revenue climbed to 300.9 mln from 233.0 mln. Thecompany paid 36.5 mln income tax compared with 4.8 mln.    Capital expenditure was 24.0 mln, against 33.4 mln. Alcoaspent 15.7 mln on its new Portland aluminium smelter comparedwith 25.8 mln the year before. Over 65 pct of the smelter'sfirst potline is on stream and by the second quarter it will beproducing at the full annual rate of 150,000 tonnes a year. REUTER
VENEZUELA FINANCE MINISTER TO SEEK JAPANESE CREDIT Finance minister Manuel Azpurua said hewill visit Japan in mid-May to seek new credits for plannedexpansion in Venezuela's state-owned aluminum, steel andpetrochemical industries.    Azpurua told reporters he will be accompanied by centralbank president Hernan Anzola and director of public financeJorge Marcano.    "The idea is to hold meetings with Japanese economic andfinancial authorities, with the banks which have business andcredits in Venezuela and with some of the Japanese companiesalready active here," Azpurua said.    Azpurua said he was optimistic about the trip, in light ofJapan's recent announcement it will disburse 30 billion dlrs innew credit to Latin American countries.    "I think this trip is being taken at an opportune time andwill allow us to reveal the potencial which this country holdsfor the Japanese economic community," Azpurua said.    He would not say how much Venezuela will seek in creditsfrom Japan. REUTER
VENEZUELA FINANCE MINISTER TO JAPAN IN MID-MAY Finance Minister Manuel Azpurua saidtoday he will travel to Japan in mid-May to seek new creditsfor planned expansions in Venezuela's state aluminum, steel andpetrochemical industries.    Azpurua told reporters he will be accompanied by CentralBank President Hernan Anzola and Director of Public FinanceJorge Marcano.    'The idea is to hold meetings with Japanese economic andfinancial authorities, with the banks which have business andcredits in Venezuela and with some of the Japanese companiesalready active here,' Azpurua said. Reuter
SEOUL UNVEILS SHOPPING LIST OF U.S. GOODS South Korea unveiled a shopping list of2.6 billion dlrs of U.S. Goods in line with its new policy ofseeking to limiting its trade surplus to ease trade frictionwith Washington.    The government said this would help freeze this year'strade surplus with the United States at the 1986 level.    "The surplus, which rose to 7.4 billion dollars last yearfrom 4.3 billion in 1985, was projected to top 10 billion thisyear but the government has taken steps to constrain it to theseven billion dollar level," one Trade Ministry official toldReuters.    A government statement said the 2.6 billion dlrs was inaddition to about two billion dlrs of purchases made last monthby a South Korean trade mission to the United States.    The announcement follows a visit here this week by U.S.Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige, who said that if SouthKorea wanted to avoid protectionist retaliation it should notfalter in its policies to open its market and cut its surplus.    The statement said the government, state agencies and otherpublic institutions would buy 480 mln dlrs worth of U.S. Cars,computers, helicopters, ambulances, motorcycles, medical andlaboratory equipment and other products. "This amounts includes89 mln dlrs worth of purchases which were not originallyreflected in their budgets," it added.    The list includes 1.13 billion dlrs of capital goods, 700mln of farm products, 50 mln of aluminium, zinc, polyethyleneand other raw materials, and 250 mln of steel, electronics andshipbuilding parts which would be shifted from other nations.    Agriculture Ministry officials said South Korea had alreadybought 310 mln dlrs worth of U.S. Wheat, raw cotton, corn andsoybeans.    This meant the country would buy from the United Statesnearly all of the 1.27 billion dlrs of its planned imports ofsuch commodities this year, they said.    The government will also take steps to reduce tariffs,accelerate the opening of its markets, voluntarily restrainexports and cut export financing, the statement said.    South Korea will also reorganise the country's 3,600 tradeagents to deliver better after-sales services for importedproducts and hold a trade show in November for U.S. Products. Reuter
PECHINEY TO SELL PART OF STAKE IN CANADA PLANT French state-owned aluminium and specialmetals group Pechiney <PUKG.PA> is planning to sell 25 pct of aCanadian aluminium plant at Becancour to the U.S.'s ReynoldsMetals Co <RLM.N> over the coming weeks, the company said.     Pechiney currently holds a majority 50.1 pct stake in theplant. The company also said it planned an agreement soon withItaly's <La Metalli Industriale>, a 57 pct owned subsidiary of<Societa Metallurgica Italiana> related to cupreous products.No further details were available. REUTER
ALCOA RAISING PRICES OF ALUMINUM BEVERAGE CAN STOCK E Investitech Ltd said it hasclosed on a 500,000 dlr long-term mortgage loan in connectionwith its previous purchase of a Mulberry, Fla., plant,replacing a short-term borrowing.    The company said full production at the plant will startimmediately. Reuter
ALCOA RAISING PRICES OF ALUMINUM BEVERAGE CAN STOCK E Net 7,237,000 vs 5,938,000    Sales 630.8 mln vs 601.8 mln    Year    Net 34.1 mln vs 20.5 mln    Sales 2.75 billion vs 2.61 billion    NOTE: Twelve and 52-week periods.    Generale Occidentale SA subsidiary.    Prior year net both periods includes 7,580,000 dlr pretaxcharge for store closings.    Year net includes pension gain 3,455,000 dlrs vs charge5,502,000 dlrs due to change in pension accounting.    Income tax rate for year 45.9 pct vs 34.1 pct due toabolition of investment tax credits.  Elimination of investmenttax credits approximately offset gain from change in pensionaccounting, company said. Reuter
LITTLE REACTION TO REMOVAL COMEX DAILY LIMITS The elimination of limits on daily pricefluctuations for metals futures contracts traded on theCommodity Exchange, COMEX, appears to be having little effecton the market, analysts said.    "There is nothing apparent from the change," said WilliamO'Neill, director of futures research at Elders Futures Inc.    "The market has not approached the old price limits andtrading is relative quiet, in narrow ranges," he said.    On May 5, COMEX eliminated price limits on the twocontracts following each spot delivery in gold, silver, copperand aluminum futures after a review of its clearing operations,which were severely tested by a volatile market in silverfutures at the end of April. COMEX announced Friday the liftingof all daily limits, effective today.    Gold futures, which previously had a limit of 25 dlrs perounce in most back months, were about 7.00 dlrs weaker in thenearby contracts amid thin volume conditions, traders said.    Silver futures, previously limited at 50 cents in most backmonths, were trading about 30-40 cts weaker in the nearbycontracts amid quiet trading today.    During the last week of April, silver futures often tradedat the daily allowable limit amid concerns about inflation, thedollar, and other factors. Traders rushed into the spot, orunlimited, contract to offset those moves, analysts said.    As a result, O'Neill said, there was much confusion, manyunmatched trades, and large losses for some traders.    The COMEX fined four large firms a total of 100,000 dlrsfor failure to resolve unmatched trades in a timely manner.    Paul Cain, a vice president at Shearson Lehman Brothers,said the elimination of price limits will cut back on panicbuying or selling and contribute to more orderly markets.    O'Neill added that the elimination of daily limits wouldadd caution to trading.    "This is a more realistic approach because the metalsmarket is a 24 hours market and prices can move without limit,"O'Neill said. Reuter
VENEZUELA GETS 300 MLN DLRS CREDIT FOR ALUMINUM Venezuela has obtained more than 300 mlndlrs in financing for industrial projects and increased itslines of credit for import financing, finance minister ManuelAzpurua said.    'We can say that we are achieving the recuperation ofcredit, but that cannot be done overnight,' Azpurua said in atelevision interview.    He said a credit agreement for 100 mln marks will be signedthis week with the German state bank Kreditanstalt furWiederaufbau (KFW), to finance an expansion of the statealuminum company Venalum.    The credit will be divided into two separate agreements,one for 85 mln marks with an interest rate of 6.13 pct, andanother for 15 mln marks, at 6.20 pct.    Azpurua said financing has also been obtained for expansionof Alcasa, another state aluminum company, and for projects inthe state steel and petrochemical industries.    Yesterday, he said Venezuela obtained two new credits of5.0 mln dlrs each for export financing, one from Credit du Nordof France and the other from Britain's Midland Bank.    The Venezuelan government has been criticised at home forfailing to obtain new credits, despite its insistence onrepaying foreign debt according to the terms of a reschedulingaccord reached last February.    Azpurua recently visited Tokyo hoping to acquire newcredits for industrial expansions but clinched no agreements.Japanese officials refused to allow a new issue of Venezuelanbonds until the country regains its 'Triple A' credit rating. Reuter
VENEZUELA OBTAINED 300 MILLION DLRS IN CREDITS venezuela has obtained more than 300 mlndlrs in financing for industrial projects and has alsoincreased its lines of credit for import financing, financeminister manuel azpurua said.    "we can say that we are achieving the recuperation ofcredit, but that cannot be done overnight," azpurua said in atelevision interview.    Azpurua said a credit agreement for 100 mln marks will besigned this week with the german state bank kreditanstalt furwiederaufbau (kfw), to finance an expansion of the statealuminum company venalum.    The credit will be divided into two separate agreements,one for 85 mln marks with an interest rate of 6.13 pct, andanother for 15 mln marks, at 6.20 pct. Azpurua said financinghad also been obtained for the expansion of alcasa, anotherstate aluminum company, as well as for projects in the statesteel and petrochemical industries. He did not provide details.    Yesterday, after a meeting of leaders of the ruling acciondemocratica party, azpurua said venezuela had obtained two newcredits of five mln dlrs each for export financing, one fromcredit du nord of france and the other from the midland bank ofgreat britain.    The finance minister's statements came as the government isunder sharp criticism for failing to obtain new credits,despite its insistence on repaying the foreign debt accordingto the terms of a rescheduling accord reached last february.    Azpurua and other senior economic officals returned from atrip to tokyo last week in which they hoped to acquire newcredits for industrial expansions, but no agreements werereached.    Japanese officials also refused to allow a new issue ofvenezuelan debt bonds because until the country regains its'triple a' credit classification. Reuter
ALCAN REDUCES COST OF PLANNED SMELTER Alcan Aluminium Ltd said it has cut theexpected cost of its planned Laterriere, Quebec, smelter byusing enhanced Grande Baie reduction technology.    The company said the decision to use prebaked anodetechnolgy used at its Grande Baie, Quebec, and Sebree, Ky.,smelters was taken primarily for cost reasons.    As a result, it said, the estimated total cost of theplanned smelter will be held to 450 mln U.S. dlrs, the low endof the range estimated in mid-May, while the cost of the firstphase was cut to 150 mln dlrs from the projected 175-225 mlndlrs. Reuter
VENEZUELAN ALUMINUM FIRM TO CREDITS the venezuelan state aluminum companyvenalum is negotiating a total of 123.9 mln dlr in credits fromabroad for a planned expansion of production faciities, financeminister manuel azpurua said.    Azpurua spoke to reporters after meeting representatives ofthe kreditanstalt fur wiederaufbau (kfw) bank of germany, whotommorrow will sign a agreement to grant 100 mln marks (54.9mln US dlrs) in credits to venalum.    The agreement will have an eight and one-half year term anda fixed interest rate of 6.13 pct.    Azpurua said venalum is negotiating credits of 14.9 mlndlrs from the swiss bank corporation, 14 mln dlrs frommitsubishi of japan and 40 mln dlrs from eksportfinans ofnorway.    "this proves we are achieving our goal of reestablishingthe financial flows to the country," said azpurua.    The credits would go to the installation of a fifthproduction line in venalum, one of three state aluminumcompanies, which produces primarily for the export market. Reuter
REYNOLDS METALS <RLM> TO RESTART IDLE POTLINE Reynolds Metals co said it plansto restart the last idle potuction line at its Troutdale, Ore.,primary aluminum plant.    With the restart of this 22,700-metric-tonne-per-year line,Reynolds said, it will be operating at 100 pct of itsconsolidated primary aluminum capacity of 695,000 tonnes peryear.    Reynolds said work will commence on the potline restart inthe near future and it is expected that actual metal productionwill begin on September one.    The company said the start up was necessitated bycontinuing strong demand for aluminum and dwindling worldwideinventories, and that the metal is needed to supply Reynolds'various fabricating businesses. Reuter
REYNOLDS METALS TO RESTART IDLE POTLINE Reynolds Metals Co said it plansto restart the last idle potline at its Troutdale, Ore.,primary aluminum plant.    With the restart of this 22,700 tonne a year productionline, Reynolds said it will be operating at 100 pct of itsconsolidated primary aluminum capacity of 695,000 tonnes peryear.    Reynolds said work on the restart will begin in the nearfuture and it is expected that actual metal production willbegin September 1.    The company said the start-up was necessitated bycontinuing strong demand for aluminum and dwindling worldwideinventories, and that the metal is needed to supply Reynolds'various fabricating businesses. Reuter
INDONESIA RAISES STAKE IN ALUMINIUM PLANT Indonesia has increased its share in a434-billion-yen aluminium smelter joint venture with Japan from25 to 37 pct, Asahan Project Authority director A.R. Suhudsaid.    The Japanese Export-Import Bank said Indonesia had raisedits share of (P.T. Indonesia Asahan Aluminium) company,capitalised in 1975 at 91 billion, by swapping 32 billion yenin government loans to the company for an equity stake.    The Japanese shareholders, the Overseas EconomicCooperation Fund and 12 companies, are to invest another 24billion yen raising capitalisation to 147 billion yen.    Asahan reported total losses of 97.6 billion rupiah between1982 and 1985. Suhud said much of the company's 320 billion yendebt had been caused by falling tin prices and the appreciationof the yen against the U.S. Dollar. Aluminium is sold indollars.    Prices improved from 1,150 dlrs a tonne six months ago toabout 1,450 dlrs today. The plant is supposed to break even ifprices stay at 1,500 dlrs a tonne.    Sahud said the plant, with a capacity of 220,000 tonnes ayear, would probably lose money again in 1987. The plant,situated in North Sumatra, produces mostly for Japan. REUTER
JAPAN APPROVES AID FOR INDONESIA, BRAZIL ALUMINIUM Japan's cabinet approved a plan to helpfinancially-troubled aluminium ventures in Indonesia andBrazil, an official at the Ministry of International and TradeIndustry (MITI) said.    Japan will invest 24 billion yen in <PT Indonesia AsahanAluminium> in addition to the 68.3 billion yen already investedin the company. The government and private interests willequally share the additional investment, he said.    They will also provide equal shares in 6.3 billion yen innew investment in the Albras Amazon aluminium project inBrazil, in addition to the 45.7 billion yen already invested.    The Japan Export-Import Bank will cut its rates on loans toAsahan and Albras to about five pct from about seven pct, theofficial said.    Interest rates on loans by Japan's private banks to the twoprojects are expected to be reduced to around five pct from thecurrent seven to eight pct, but an agreement has yet to bereached, industry sources said.    Under the rescue scheme for Asahan, in which 91.1 billionyen has been invested, Indonesia will also extend another 32billion yen to the company.  This will raise Indonesia'sinvestment ratio to about 40 pct from the current 25 pct.    The Brazilian government has already agreed to invest anadditional 6.5 billion yen in Albras, in which investment nowtotals 93.2 billion yen, but its stake will not change from 51pct, the official said.    The sources said the rescue programs for the two projectswere larger than earlier expected, reflecting Japan's desire tohelp develop the economies of Indonesia and Brazil and tostabilise sources of aluminium.    Japan depends on imports for more than 90 pct of itsaluminium demand, which totals some 1.8 mln tonnes a year, theysaid. REUTER
MALAYSIA TO RESEARCH TIN, WARY ON VEG OILS TAX Malaysia is to urge fellow tinproducing countries to contribute more money towards researchinto new uses for the metal, Malaysian primary industriesminister Lim Keng Yaik told Reuters in an interview.    Lim, in Brussels on a tour of Europe and America, said hehad instructed Malaysia's representatives on the executivecommittee of the Association of Tin Producing Countries, ATPC,to draw up a paper on the matter.    Lim earlier met European Community farm commissioner FransAndriessen and industry commissioner Karl-Heinz Narjes.    He said though it now appeared likely Commission proposalsfor a tax on vegetable and marine oils and fats would bedefeated, he feared the Commission would revive the idea.    Lim noted Andriessen this week promised that if the tax wasadopted and third countries suffered export losses as a result,they would be compensated through access to the EC foralternative exports.    "Since most of our products are commodity based, I cannotsee how this would work out in our case," Lim said.    Malaysian palm oil exports to the EC are worth about 250mln dlrs a year.    The tin research proposal would be presented at an ATPCmeeting to be held in Kuala Lumpur in September.    "Not enough research and development effort has been put inby tin producers and we have been pushed out by substitutessuch as aluminium, paper and plastics," Lim said.    He mentioned the use of inorganic tin in pesticides as anexciting possible new application.    Lim said he could not estimate the amount of extra moneywhich needed to be spent on research into new uses before thenew paper was produced.    He said Narjes told him there appeared no fundamentalbarriers to EC states quickly ratifying the new InternationalRubber Agreement, INRA, although translations of the accordinto some EC languages are still being awaited.    Lim, who will sign and ratify the agreement on Malaysia'sbehalf when he visits New York during his current tour, said itwas important there should not be a long "interregnum" betweenthe old agreement lapsing in October and the new one cominginto force.    He described the present accord as a model for commodityagreements due to its being signed by nearly all producing andconsuming countries and by virtue of its review systems andcontrol over buffer stock management. Reuter
CHINA ALUMINIUM VENTURE AIMS AT SOUTH KOREA China and Australia's Victoria statesigned a joint venture contract for a 290 mln dlr aluminiumprocessing plant in China that will export to South Korea,Australian officials told journalists.    China has no official direct trade or government ties withSeoul, while it maintains close links with North Korea.    China International Trust and Investment Corporation(CITIC) would have 75 pct of the equity in <Bohai AluminiumIndustries Ltd>, the company to build the rolling mill andextrusion plant on the northeast China coast, they said.    It was China's largest joint venture so far, they said.    "A joint venture opens up the potential for penetratingmarkets that would not otherwise be possible (for China),"Victoria state treasurer Rob Jolly said.    An Australian diplomat said CITIC was eager to pursue SouthKorean markets. Indirect trade between China and Seoul isgrowing but is not officially publicised.    Victoria's <Aluvic Ltd>, on behalf of the state government,will hold a 25 pct equity stake in the project, which isintended as a sister plant to Victoria's Portland aluminiumsmelter. CITIC in May agreed to invest about 80 mln dlrs inPortland.    The China-based joint venture would process Portlandaluminium and aim to sell aluminium products to the domesticChinese market as well as for export, Jolly said.    The Australian side's investment was limited to about 22mln dlrs, but Aluvic would have the right to appoint keymanagers, he said.    Australian officials said they hoped the goodwill generatedby their participation would lead to further CITIC investmentin Victoria. The Chinese group enjoys a high level ofindependence from Peking's central government and has extensiveoverseas investments. REUTER
 Sept daily ave primary aluminium output 34,900 tonnes, up 400 tonne The first convertible bond issued by aSouth Korean firm overseas -- by Samsung Electronics Co Ltd<SAMS.SE> -- became eligible for conversion but there was nodemand for shares as the government still bans direct shareownership by foreigners, a Samsung official said.    "There was no demand from holders, so the lead managers madeno approach to us to issue shares," the official said.    The five pct bond, co-lead managed by S.G. Warburg andGoldman Sachs Co, raised 20 mln dlrs when issued in 1985. Theonly other Korean convertible bonds were issued by Daewoo HeavyIndustries Ltd <DAEW.SE> and <Yukong Ltd>, both in 1986. REUTER
GROUNDED BRITISH BAUXITE VESSEL REFLOATED IN ORINOCO The British bulk carrier Envoy, which ranaground in the Orinoco river on October 16, was refloatedwithout lightening on October 19, Lloyds Shipping Intelligenceservice said.    The Envoy, 75,453 tonnes dw, was carrying a cargo of 50,000tonnes of bauxite from Brazil to Cuba. REUTER
BRITISH BAUXITE VESSEL GROUNDED IN ORINOCO RIVER Lloyds Shipping Intelligence service saidthe British bulk carrier Envoy, 75,453 tonnes dw, was groundedat Mile 190 in the Orinoco river on October 16.    The vessel was on a voyage from Trombetas, Brazil, toMatanzas, Cuba, carrying 50,000 tonnes of bauxite. Its draughtwas 36 feet.     Attempts to refloat the vessel with the help of six tugshave been unsuccessful. The owners are considering unloadingpart of the cargo onto barges. REUTER
