MARKET WELCOMES LOWER AUSTRALIAN PAYMENTS DEFICIT The Australian dollar rose more than 40points and money market interest rates retreated on the betterthan expected improvement in the February current accountdeficit, but economists and dealers were cautious aboutidentifying it as the start of a downward trend.    The current account deficit narrowed to 750 mln dlrs inFebruary from 1.23 billion in January. It hit 13.82 billiondlrs in 1985/86 to end-June.    The currency jumped to 0.6858/63 U.S. Dlrs and traded ashigh as 0.6875 before retreating to around 0.6864/69.    "It's got 69 cents written all over it," one dealer said.    Foreign exchange dealers said some buyers had gone long onthe dollar expecting a lower figure and sold it down about 30points to 0.6820 U.S. Dlrs before the release.    The 750 mln dlr deficit was at the lower end of forecastsand analysts said the market would welcome any figure below onebillion dlrs for March.    Banque National de Paris <BNPP.A> senior dealer PeterNicolls cautioned that in the long term the currency andinterest rates were too high for import substitution and exportindustries.    Nicolls said he expected the dollar to go as high as 0.6875and perhaps to 69 cents tomorrow.    <Lloyds Bank NZA Ltd> chief economist Will Buttrose saidthe 42 mln dlr trade surplus was encouraging as were imports at2.77 billion dlrs, down from 2.99 billion in January.    But he warned that the outlook for rural and iron and coalexports remained poor. "We should remember we are payingsomething like seven to eight billion dollars simply to serviceour foreign debt and that is not going to go away in the nearterm," Buttrose said.    Buttrose said he expected a March deficit of around 900 mlndlrs, and added "Any figure under a billion dollars will beacceptable (to the markets)."    ANZ Banking Group Ltd <ANZA.S> senior economist Ian Littlesaid the big question was whether the improvement in exportscould be sustained. February FOB exports rose to 2.82 billiondlrs from a revised 2.74 billion in January.    Interest rates responded quickly to the deficit news, with90-day bank bill yields falling to 16.42-16.45 pct from earlyhighs of 16.50 and yields yesterday as high as 16.65.    Longer term yields fell with 10-year bonds at 13.66/68 pctfrom 13.74 before the release and highs of 13.87 yesterday.    The stock market was easier at midsession but brokers saidthe current account data had little impact on trading. REUTER
AUSTRALIAN CURRENCY TRADING SET RECORD IN JANUARY Spot volume in the Australian foreignexchange market jumped to a record 22.63 billion dlrs a day inJanuary from 16.18 billion in December and 8.27 billion a yearearlier, the Reserve Bank said in its monthly bulletin.    The previous record was 17.51 billion dlrs last August.    The peak broke a steady trading trend of 15 to 17 billiondlrs a day seen in the second half of 1986.    Including forward deals, total deliverable volume was 27.01billion dlrs a day (13.43 billion against the Australiandollar) against 19.56 billion (8.48 billion) in December and9.92 billion (5.88 billion) a year earlier, the bank said. REUTER
U.S. CORPORATE FINANCE - NEW ZEALAND DLR FRNS Floating-rate notes denominated in aforeign currency, a relatively new wrinkle on Wall Street, willprobably be issued infrequently because the so-called "windowof opportunity" opens and closes quickly, traders say.    "In just two days we had as many issues. As a result, themarket became glutted," said one trader.    He said the window depends more on supply than on foreignexchange or interest rate risk, at least for the moment."Obviously, currency risk is important. But there is a limitednumber of investors right now for the paper," he said.    On Thursday, Bear, Stearns and Co sole-managed a 100 mlnNew Zealand dlr offering of three-year floating-rate notesissued by Ford Motor Credit Co, a unit of Ford Motor Co <F>.    The initial rate for the notes will be set on April 15, andquarterly after that, at 200 basis points below the 90-day NewZealand bank bill rate. They are non-callable for life.    This followed by a week another Bear Stearns-led offeringof the same amount of New Zealand dollar notes for Dow ChemicalCo <DOW>. The initial rate was also to be initially set onApril 15, and quarterly after that, at 340 basis points belowthe same 90-day New Zealand rate.    Because the Dow Chemical notes carried an interest ratefloor of 17 pct, the issue saw strong investor demand,underwriters said.    But the Ford Credit notes and Friday's offering of 130 mlnNew Zealand dlrs of floating-rate notes due 1990 issued byGeneral Electric Co's <GE> General Electric Credit Corp viaPrudential-Bache Securities Inc, did not have such a floor.    "Obviously, the two firms did not want to issue floatersand face the risk of New Zealand rates falling sharply," anunderwriter away from the syndicates said. He and others notedthat the New Zealand 90-day rate was 27 pct late last week.    An underwriter familiar with the Dow Chemical deal pointedout that because of the interest rate and currency swaps Dowdid, the issuer felt comfortable setting a rate floor.    Domestic offerings of foreign currency denominated datefirst surfaced in Fall 1985. By using currency and rate swaps,companies can sell debt that pays a high interest rate in aforeign currency like Australian or New Zealand dollars. Butthe issuers actually realize savings on borrowing costs.    "I would say that every company which issued foreigncurrency debt saved some basis points when compared tosame-maturity plain vanilla U.S. issues," an analyst said.    Investors, mainly institutions, were attracted to the earlyissues because of the high interest rates. They were willing toabsorb foreign currency risk until mid-1986, when sharp slidesposted by the Australian and New Zealand dollars brought suchissuance to a quick halt.    It was not until late last year, after the currenciesstabilized, that companies again started issuing debtdenominated in Australian and New Zealand dollars.    But many investors have still shied away from the debt,remembering the mid-1986 downturn of the Australian and NewZealand dollars, analysts noted.    To attract some of those investors back to the fold,underwriters like Bear Stearns decided to structure the foreigncurrency issues as floating rate debt, sources said.    This occurred against a backdrop of uncertainty over thecourse of U.S. interest rates for the intermediate term, andpredictions by a number of economists that Treasury yieldswould rise in the second half of the year, the sources noted.    A Bear Stearns officer said more than half of the FordCredit notes were sold by late Friday afternoon, the second dayof offering. "That is quicker than some recent fixed-rate NewZealand dollar note issues," he said.    However, underwriters away from the Bear Stearns syndicatesaid the issue may have sold even faster if Prudential-Bachedid not offer the General Electric Credit notes on Friday.    They pointed out that the Ford notes were rated A-1 byMoody's Investors and AA-minus by Standard and Poor's, whilethe General Electric notes, which had the same interest rateterms and were also non-callable to maturity, carriedtop-flight AAA ratings by both agencies.    "We have sold 20 to 25 pct of the GE notes. For first-daysales on a Friday afternoon, I'm happy with the results," anofficer on Prudential-Bache's syndicate desk said.    Investors pay the U.S. dollar equivalent of the foreigncurrency-denominated notes, underwriters said.    Investment bankers said the next floating-rate issue of NewZealand or Australian dollar-denominated debt is probably a fewweeks away.    "I would like to underwrite a deal a day. But with the Dow,Ford and GE offerings, the marketplace has had enough for thetime being," the Prudential-Bache officer admitted.    Meanwhile, IDD Information Services said the 30-daycorporate visible supply fell to 3.29 billion dlrs last weekfrom 3.98 billion dlrs in the previous week. Reuter
CITIBANK SELLS MARK/AUSTRALIAN DLR WARRANTS Citicorp said that on behalf of itsCitibank N.A. Subsidiary, it is issuing 100,000 naked currencywarrants priced at 67-1/2 marks each to purchase Australiandlrs for marks at a rate of 1.1825 marks per Australian dlr.    The current rate is 1.2850 marks per Australian dlr. Eachwarrant is for a nominal amount of 1,000 marks and the minimumpurchase will be for 100 warrants.    The warrants expire on January 8, 1988. Payment is due onApril 8 and the warrants will be listed on the Luxembourg StockExchange. REUTER
