CANADA DLR DRIVEN BY FOREIGN BUYERS - WILSON Finance Minister Michael Wilson saidlarge inflows of capital into Canada, principally into thecountry's bond market, is a major reason behind the sharprecovery in the Canadian dollar.    He said the inflow of funds, mainly from Japan, Europe andthe United States, is the result of "confidence in thedirection this country is going in."    "That is the reason why the (Canadian) dollar today ishigher than 75 cts (U.S.) compared to this time last year (whenit was) a little over 69 cts," Wilson told the House of Commonsdaily question period.    Figures released this week show foreigners purchased arecord 23.1 billion dlrs of Canadian bonds in 1986, more thandouble the previous year, with Japan investing a record 9.5billion dlrs in the market.    Wilson was responding to opposition party questions about apossible loss of jobs from the rise in Canadian investmentabroad. Canadian investment, including the buying of foreigncompanies, stocks and bonds, rose to 12.53 billion dlrs from6.19 billion dlrs in 1985.    The minister said the flow of funds from abroad wouldgenerate many new jobs in Canada. Reuter
POUND AND CANADIAN DOLLAR CAPTURING ATTENTION Interest in the currency futures markethas shifted to the soaring British pound and the potentiallyexplosive Canadian dollar, and away from the dull Continentaland Japanese currencies, analysts said.    The June pound, which added 6.3 cents over the pastweek-and-a-half to reach a new contract high of 1.5930 to thedollar on Monday, has spawned a new-found speculative boom.    "Brokers have to push their clients somewhere...andtechnically, the pound is in the best shape," PaineWebberanalyst Jason Gillard said.    "We've tried to take a bullish approach to the pound, andwe're going to stay with that, there's no reason to change,"Smith Barney analyst Craig Sloane said.    Many traders took on long pound/short West German markfutures positions, although some of those cross-trades wereliquidated yesterday, Sloane said.     The fundamental keys to the pound's rise have beenrelatively high U.K. interest rates and a vague optimismsurrounding the British economy, analysts said.    "Money seems to be chasing yields," William Byers, of BearStearns, said of the 10-1/2 pct U.K. base lending rate.    Many analysts are skeptical about further gains in thepound, on the inference that the Bank of England will seek torelieve upward pressure on the currency by pushing downinterest rates after the nation's budget is released March 17.    The budget itself could have an impact, depending on howwell it is received, but analysts say relative interest ratesand oil income remain the main influences on the currency.    However, the market may be able to absorb lower U.K.interest rates, as it has done when other countries have cuttheir discount rates, and extend the pound's rally, Sloanesaid.    The Canadian dollar has not been rising like the pound, butSloane and other analysts cautiously predicted a big move soon.    The sideways price pattern in the June contract, withsmaller and smaller price ranges, has formed a "bull flag" onprice charts, technically-oriented analysts said.    "It makes for an explosive type of situation that oftenleads to a breakout," in this case to the upside, Sloane said.    Byers agreed there was potential for the June Canadiandollar to rally above the 77.00 cent level from the most recentclose at 74.80 cents to the U.S. dollar.    "At this stage of the game I'd call the market long-termpositive, but for the technical burden of proof you need aclose above (the previous contract high of) 75.25," Byers said.    As to the traditionally more active currencies, stabilitywas the catchword and reluctance the watchword among analysts.    Sloane said it was important that June Swiss francs andJune German marks held above support at 0.6400 and 0.5400,respectively, closing at 0.6438 and 0.5430.    Yesterday's rebound showed the market was still veryrespectful of the Paris accord, and the threat of central bankintervention by the G-5 nations plus Canada.    "We may still probe to see what the parameters are," Byerssaid, "but people are very reluctant because they don't knowwhere the central banks will be (to intervene)."    Gillard said the mark could drop to a previous priceconsolidation area around 0.5250 based on the profoundlysluggish West German economy, but that he would be a buyer atthat level. Reuter
CURRENCY FUTURES TO KEY OFF G-5, G-7 MEETINGS News of an agreement among G-5 and G-7finance ministers meeting in Washington this week will be keyto the direction of currency futures at the InternationalMonetary Market, but any such agreement will need to go beyondthe Paris accord to stem the recent rise in futures, financialanalysts said.    "If they (the finance ministers) give the market somethingreally new to look at -- that is, some package that goes beyondthe Paris agreement -- you could have a real boost in thedollar," said Shearson Lehman Brothers analyst Anne Mills.    On the other hand, "anything neutral would tend to bebearish for the dollar," Mills said.    Traders and analysts agree a simple reaffirmation of theParis accord will not be enough to halt the decline in thedollar, nor will central bank intervention.    "A lot of people are looking for a reason to buy currenciesand sell the dollar," said one trader for a large retail firmon the floor of the IMM.    "If there is no concrete resolution, they will be lookingto sell the dollar, possibly down to the 1.80 mark level," hesaid.    Technically, most currency futures are poised for anotherrise, said Smith Barney Harris Upham analyst Craig Sloane.    Sloane noted that June yen futures set a new contract highon Tuesday and closed at its best level ever, while Junesterling set a new contract high on Monday.    "Everything seems to be coming to a head right now and youdon't need much to get things rolling," Sloane said.    In particular, the June Canadian dollar, for which Sloanerecently put out a buy recommendation, has hovered in a rangebetween 0.7600 and 0.7660 in recent weeks, forming a triangleon the charts from which it may soon break out on the upside.    A close above the contract high of 0.7665 would signal abreakout, Sloane said, and would likely mean the nearbyCanadian dollar contract would extend its advance to near the0.7800 level. June Canadian dollar closed at 0.7656 Tuesday.    Mills noted, however, that interest rate differentialsbetween Canadian securities and U.S. securities have narroweddramatically recently, with yields on 10-year Canadian bondsonly about 80 basis points above U.S. 10-year notes.    What has helped the Canadian currency, she noted, is anincreasing proportion of foreign funds flowing into theCanadian equity market, particularly from Japanese investors.    Other analysts, however, said currency futures may be nearthe top of their long-term rally.    "Something will be done at the (G-5 and G-7) meeting tocalm people," said David Horner of Merrill Lynch Economics.    The Paris accord has pretty much fixed where major Europeancurrencies will trade, Horner said.    But sterling futures may still make another run for newhighs, up to 1.6300 to 1.6500 dlr in the June contract, on thepositive atmosphere that will prevail before British electionsand possibly another interest rate cut, Horner said. The JuneBritish pound closed at 1.6080 on Tuesday.    Horner said that new boundaries for the trading range ofthe yen are likely to come out of the G-5 and G-7 meetings.    The most likely range will be a bottom for the dollarbetween 140 to 142 yen per dollar and a top near 150 to 152yen, Horner said. In yen futures, the bottom of the dollar'srange would be equivalent to 0.007100 to 0.007150 in the Junecontract. June yen closed at 0.006913 on Tuesday.    If such a range does emerge from the meetings, "we willhave one more rally in the yen," Horner said. Reuter
