CHINESE PORK OUTPUT SEEN LOWER -- USDA High feed prices will cause theChinese to reduce hog herd growth and pork production thisyear, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.    In its World Production and Trade Report, the departmentsaid hog numbers at the start of 1987 were estimated at 331.6mln head, up slightly from 1986, and 10 mln head above earlierprojections for 1987.    Pork production in 1986 was up 4.2 pct to 17.25 mln tonnes,slightly below earlier estimates, it said.    For 1987, production is projected to fall to 17.05 mlntonnes.    Feed prices at the end of January were reported 35 to 40pct above year-ago levels, the department said. Reuter
USDA PROPOSES NAME CHANGES IN BEEF GRADE The U.S. Agriculture Departmentproposes to rename the "USDA Good" grade of beef to "USDA Select."    The department said the proposed change is in response to apetition from Public Voice for Food and Health Policy and wouldpresent a more positive image of this grade of beef and helpcalorie-conscious consumers select leaner cuts of meat.    Under current rules, the "good" grade of meat has lessmarbling and fat than the "prime" or "choice" grades, it said.    Standards for all of the grades would remain unchangedunder the proposal. Reuter
MANDATORY PRODUCTION CONTROLS DEBATED AT APC Delegates to the American Pork Congresswill decide whether or not they want mandatory productioncontrols when they vote on the official pork producer policywednesday, the National Pork Producers Council said.    The American Pork Congress, APC, delegates, listened toboth sides of the question when former Iowa Congressman BerkleyBedell and Bill Lesher, USDA Assistant Secretary for Economicsfor the years 1981 to 1985 debated at the convention inIndianapolis. Reuter
PORK CHECKOFF REFUNDS LESS THAN EXPECTED The National Pork Board announced at theAmerican Pork Congress convention in Indianapolis that refundsunder the legislative checkoff program are running less thanexpected.    The Board oversees collection and distribution of fundsfrom the checkoff program that was mandated by the 1985 farmbill. Virgil Rosendale, a pork producer from Illinois andchairman of the National Pork Board, said over 2.2 mln dlrs wascollected in January and refunds are running almost nine pct,considerably less than expected.    "We believe that this indicates good producer support forthe new checkoff. We're getting good compliance from markets,from packers and from dealers," Rosendale said. Reuter
NATIONAL PORK BOARD ALLOCATES 2.4 MLN DLRS The National Pork Board on Mondayallocated 2.4 mln dlrs in discretionary funds, collected fromthe 100 pct national checkoff program, to three industryorganizations.    The National Pork Producers Council, NPPC, will receivealmost 1.8 mln dlrs for use in the areas of food service,consumer education and marketing. In addition the boardallocated 375,000 dlrs in use in "Pork - The Other White Meat"campaign, according to a Pork Board spokesperson.    The National Livestock and Meat Board will receive 644,000dlrs to continue work in educating health care officials.120,000 dlrs in matching funds will be provided to the meatboard for use in the development of a better market forprocessed meats.    The Meat Export Federation was awarded 50,000 dlrs toincrease the market for chilled and processed U.S. pork inJapan and Singapore. Retail stores in these two countries willbe providing additional funding for the program.    A total of 5,000 dlrs for work in encouraging McDonalds toexpand its McRib sandwich to Japan and Singapore was alsoawarded to the Meat export Federation. Reuter
EC SOURCES DETAIL NEW FARM SOCIAL PACKAGE The 350 mln Ecu three-year package ofsocial and structural measures agreed early today by EuropeanCommunity farm ministers features a plan to compensate farmersfor reducing output of certain surplus products, EC Commissionsources said.    The ministers agreed that under this "extensification"scheme, farmers would qualify for compensation if they cutoutput of specific products by at least 20 pct.    The plan would initially apply to cereals, beef, veal andwine, they added.    Cereals farmers would have to achieve their output cuts byreducing acreage, while cattle farmers would reduce theirnumber of head and vinegrowers would cut yield. In each case,farmers would have to undertake not to step up their capacityfor output of other products which are in surplus in the EC.    The sources said payment levels have not yet been fixed butwill be designed to compensate farmers for loss of profit onthe production they forego.    The sources said the package also contains provisions forpayments to farmers who embark on a program aimed at protectingor improving the environment.    It would also mean compensatory allowances in less favouredfarming areas would be extended to crops. At present suchallowances are available only for livestock.    The package would provide 20 mln Ecus for research intoalternative farming techniques, the sources added.    At a news conference EC Farm Commissioner Frans Andriessensaid the Commission is also working on proposals to enable theEC and member states to provide direct income supports forrelatively poor farmers.    Andriessen did not give full details, but said member stateaid would be subject to "strict criteria to avoid distortion ofcompetition."    EC payments would aim to help farmers to survive adifficult period while the EC tackles the problems of surplusproduction.    The Commission withdrew from the package agreed last nightproposals to pay "early retirement" pensions to farmers aged 55or over who gave up production. Those who took their landcompletely out of farm production, rather than passing it on totheir heirs, would have received more generous payments.    Andriessen said the Commission plans to present revisedproposals along these lines in an effort to get a schemeagreed. Reuter
MORE PRESSURE URGED FOR ASIA TO TAKE U.S. BEEF Congressmen from beef producingstates and representatives of the U.S. livestock industry urged the Reagan administration to press Japan and South Koreato open up their markets to imports of beef.    Testifying at a House subcommittee hearing on livestockissues, Rep. Hal Daub (R-Nebr.), said the administration shouldpush hard for greater beef imports by Japan and South Korea.Daub was joined by several other lawmakers.    U.S. assistant trade representative Suzanne Earley, replied"we're not going to let Japan off the hook, or Korea." Shenoted trade representative Clayton Yeutter met with a seniorKorean official last week on the beef issue, and that Yeutterand Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng will visit Tokyo inApril for discussions on farm trade issues.    Japan maintains a quota on beef imports, set at 58,400tonnes high quality beef in fiscal 1987. South Korea has bannedbeef imports but there are indications Seoul may bow to U.S.pressure and allow some imports soon, industry officials said.    In testimony today, Tom Cook, director of industry affairsfor the National Cattlemens Association said "the Congress,administration and the industry must take a strong, tough andunited stand to impress the Japanese that we mean business andthat we expect them to open their markets." Reuter
NPPC DELEGATES APPROVE DISEASE AND DRUG PROGRAMS Delegates from the National PorkProducers Council, NPPC, yesterday approved programs forcontrol and eradication of pseudorabies and establishment of anational safe drug use program.    The delegate body, attending the American Pork Congress inIndianapolis, approved a pseudorabies control and eradicationprogram at the state level after a recommendation from NPPC'sPRV (pseudorabies virus) oversight committee.    The PRV committee received results of a three year, fivestate pilot project which had a 97.5 pct success rate ineradication of the disease within 116 hog herds. The projectwas jointly funded by the USDA and NPPC.    "Primarily it (the program) allows individual states todeal with their own problems according to a timetable thatsuits them best," Mike Wehler, member of the NPPC's PRVoversight committee said.    In regards to safe drug use, the delegates approved a planasking that NPPC be active in establishing a national safe druguse program.    The program would establish better relationships betweenproducers and veterinarians and eventually lead to a qualityassurance program in pork production, according to the plan.    "This program basically communicates to the FDA that we areconcerned about safe drug use and will do our part to use drugssafely, if FDA will allow the same policy to continue ineffect," Wehler said. Reuter
CUBAN CATTLE THREATENED BY DROUGHT Over 750,000 head of cattle are sufferingthe effects of a severe shortage of feed as a result of aprolonged drought in the normally rich sugar and cattleproducing province of Camaguey, the newspaper Granma reported.    The province produces 23 pct of Cuba's beef and is theisland's number two province in milk production. Granma said20,000 head of cattle are now in imminent danger.    The newspaper said a "cattle emergency" had been decreed andthe cattle are being rounded up.    Some 110,000 head have been transferred to the sugar caneconditioning centers where newly harvested cane is cleanedbefore being sent to the mills. The cattle are being fed theresidue left after cleaning the cane stalks. 32,000 head havebeen sent to nearby provinces of Las Tunas and Ciego de Avila.    Despite Cuba's ambitous cattle development plans, beefrationing has been in effect over the past 25 years. In Havana,each Cuban receives approximately 3/4 lb of rationed beef every18 days.    In a major area hit by drought, San Miguel, practically norain has fallen in the past 14 months. Grazing lands areparched and the region was unable to produce 117,000 tonnes ofsilage projected in its annual plan.    Granma said rainfall over the past year has been less than50 pct of normal precipitation. Reuter
PORK DELEGATES VOTE ON FARM BILL, FARM CREDIT Delegates from the National PorkProducers Council, NPPC, attending the American Pork Congressin Indianapolis, voted overwhelmingly to recommend the U.S.congress not to change the farm bill. While there are nospecific pork items in that legislation, feed grain pricesdirectly affect pork producer profits, the NPPC said.    Don Gingerich, a delegate from Iowa, said "to haveunpredictable changes come along periodically makes it verydifficult to plan and causes a lot of disruption."    Other members said the farm bill has some imperfections butthat's a price pork producers are willing to pay forlegislative stability, an NPPC spokesman said.    Delegates also passed unanimously a resolution thatCongress and the administration should act swiftly to identifyproblems in the farm credit system.    Farm Credit Task Force chairman and newly elected VicePresident of the NPPC Ray Hankes, said delegates wanted aprogram that all commodity groups can work with and bring a resolution to this problem with legislators in Washington.    Hankes added that the National Pork Producers Council willwork to save farmers and keep credit available, but not to saveor create any one credit system. Reuter
MEATPACKERS REJECT OCCIDENTAL <OXY> UNIT OFFER United Food and Commercial Workers UnionLocal 222 rejected a new contract proposal from Iowa BeefProcessors Inc and remain out of work, union spokesman AllenZack said.    In mid-December, Iowa Beef, a subsidiary of OccidentalPetroleum Corp, closed its beef processing plant at DakotaCity, Nebraska, because it said "it had no alternative tothreats by meatpackers to disrupt operations."    About 2,800 UFCWU members are affected by what the unionterms as a lockout.  A 3-1/2 year labor contract at the plantexpired December 13.    Zack said IBP's proposal included elimination of a two-tierwage structure, a 60 cent an hour wage cut for slaughterers anda 45 cent an hour wage reduction for processors.    The new proposal also included a bonus system of 1,000 dlrsfor workers who had been at the plant for two years, Zack said.The annual turnover rate at the facility is 100 pct, he said. Reuter
AUSTRALIAN BEEF OUTPUT DECLINES IN JANUARY Australian beef output declined to104,353 tonnes carcass weight in January from 112,262 inDecember and 105,715 a year earlier, the Statistics Bureausaid.    This followed a decline in the cattle slaughter to 472,900head from 509,500 in December and 478,800 in January 1986, thebureau said.    But cumulative beef output for the first seven months offiscal 1986/87 ending June 30 rose to 838,416 tonnes from746,837 a year earlier following a rise in cattle slaughter to3.84 mln head from 3.40 mln. REUTER
MEATPACKERS STRIKE MORRELL SIOUX CITY PLANT About 800 members of the United Food andCommercial Workers Union, UFCWU, struck John Morrell's SiouxCity, Iowa, pork processing plant at midnight Sunday, aspokesman for the UFCWU national said.    Meatpackers at the plant have been working without acontract since the old pact expired January 31, UFCWU spokesmanJohn Mancuso said. The plant can slaughter and process about13,000 to 14,000 hogs a day, he estimated.    The UFCWU bargaining committee and full membership rejectedin late January a contract proposal by John Morrell, asubsidiary of United Brands Inc, he said.
ARGENTINE MEAT EXPORTS LOWER IN 1986 Argentine meat exports duringJan/Dec 1986 totalled 220,911 tonnes, against 223,204 tonnesshipped in the same 1985 period, the National Meat board said.    Shipments in tonnes with comparative figures for the 1985period, in brackets, included: beef 120,184 (137,686), horsemeat 25,651 (33,892) and beef offal 50,100 (47,745).    Argentina's meat exports totalled 20,481 tonnes in December1986, against 15,801 tonnes in the same 1985 month.    Shipments in tonnes, with comparative figures for December1985, in brackets, included: beef 14,384 (10,339), horse meat1,609 (1,539) and beef offal 3,388 (3,098), the board said.    Main destinations for refrigerated beef (bone inequivalent) were as follows, in tonnes, with comparativefigures for 1985 in brackets:    E.C. 46,300 (49,700), Israel 16,200 (17,600), Brazil 18,100(unavailable), Peru 8,100 (2,300), Angola 4,800 (12,100), Chile3,400 (8,200), Switzerland 3,000 (3,000), Canary Islands 2,400(3,700), Singapore 1,900 (1,700), Aruba/Curazao 1,600 (1,700).    Main destinations for canned meat and cooked beef (bone inequivalent) in tonnes, with figures for 1985 in brackets, were:United States 88,300 (102,900), E.C. 30,700 (24,100). Reuter
ARGENTINE MEAT EXPORTS HIGHER IN JAN/FEB 1987 Argentine meat exports duringJan/Feb 1987 totalled 39,714 tonnes, against 36,594 tonnesshipped in the same 1986 period, National Meat board said.    Shipments in tonnes with comparative figures for the 1986period, in brackets, included: beef 26,945 (20,096), horse meat3,257 (4,211) and beef offal 7,660 (10,502).    Argentine's meat exports totalled 20,243 tonnes in February1987, against 19,217 tonnes shipped in the same 1986 month.    Shipments in tonnes, with comparative figures for February1986, in brackets, included: beef 13,272 (11,464), horse meat1,543 (2,083) and beef offal 4,476 (4,672), the board added.    Main destinations for refrigerated beef (bone inequivalent) were as follows, in tonnes, with comparativefigures for 1986 in brackets -    EC 5,500 (7,900), Brazil 5,200 (unavailable), Israel 3,700(3,000), Peru 2,500 (800), Singapore 500 (300), Switzerland 500(400), Canary Islands 500 (300), Malta 500 (700), Aruba/Curazao200 (300), Chile 100 (600).    Main destinations for canned meat and cooked beef (bone inequivalent), in tonnes with comparative figures for Jan/Feb1986, in brackets, were -    United States 11,200 (13,400), EC 4,700 (5,100). Reuter
AUSTRALIA EXPECTS RISE IN MEAT EXPORTS TO MIDEAST Australia expects meat and livestockexports to the Middle East to maintain an upward trend thisyear, managing director of the Australian Meat and LivestockCorp, Peter Frawley, said.    He told Reuters an improvement in the economic climate andless competition from the European Community should lead in theGulf area to higher beef sales, which dropped from 33,000tonnes in 1980 to just 2,300 tonnes last year.    "In the last three to four months there has been aresurgence of inquiries," he said.    Frawley is on a Gulf tour which will also take him to SaudiArabia, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait to assess marketpotential.    On beef exports, he said a 50 pct drop in EuropeanCommunity intervention stock in the past 12 months would helpAustralian sales.    The fall meant the EC was not as aggressive in thesemarkets, where the Australian trade was the natural source ofsupply, and Australia was "now back in," Frawley said.    He said there was a debate in Australia as to whether theMiddle East market for livestock, which accounts for two-thirdsof meat export value to the area, would be maintained.    He believed the trade would remain with a continuing demandfor fresh meat.    The number of live sheep shipped last year to Saudi Arabia,the biggest single market, was 3,214,159 compared with2,939,226 in 1985. The numbers shipped to the United ArabEmirates and Bahrain fell, however.    Frawley said the slackening in demand in the Gulf had beenoffset by other Arab countries around the Mediterranean.    Other than livestock, Australia's overall meat sales to theMiddle East rose to 72,374 tonnes in 1986 from 52,403 tonnesthe previous year, largely due to the sale of 25,790 tonnes ofmutton and lamb to Iran.    Australia sold 9,824 tonnes to Iran in 1985 after beingvirtually excluded by New Zealand competition for severalyears. Frawley said the 1986 sale contract had included abarter provision, but Iran had paid in full in cash.    Negotiations with the Iranians for 1987 shipments werecurrently under way, with Iran again seeking credit and barterprovisions, he said.    Frawley said there had been a tremendous growth in demandfor chilled lamb in the last four to five years and hepredicted this would continue.    "The Middle East, and the Gulf in particular, is nowAustralia's largest market for lamb, chilled and flown in.Australia is in an ideal position to provide the supplies ifthe market is willing to pay a premium for a fresh, youngproduct," he said. REUTER
OCCIDENTAL UNIT <OXY> LIFTS LOCKOUT Iowa Beef Processors Inc is lifting alockout at its Dakota City, Nebraska processing plant and plansto resume operations March 16, United Food and CommercialWorkers Union spokesman Allen Zack said by phone from hisWashington, D.C. headquarters.    Iowa Beef, a susbsidiary of Occidental Petroleum Corp,mailed a letter to members of UFCWU Local 222 informing them alockout imposed by the company on December 14 would be liftedand meatpackers could return to work under Iowa Beef's"revised, last and best final offer," according to Zack.    The letter was signed by four managers at the Dakota Cityplant.    Iowa Beef closed the proessing plant indefinitely inmid-December because, it said, it had no alternative to threatsby meatpackers to disrupt operations.    About 2,800 members of Local 222 are affected by theshutdown. A 3-1/2 year labor contract at the plant expiredDecember 13. Reuter
IOWA BEEF LIFTS LOCKOUT AT DAKOTA CITY Iowa Beef Processors Inc is lifting alockout at its Dakota City, Nebraska, processing plant andplans to resume operations March 16, United Food and CommercialWorkers (UFCW) Union spokesman Allen Zack said.    Iowa Beef mailed a letter to members of UFCW Local 222informing them a lockout imposed by the company December 14would be lifted and meatpackers could return to work under IowaBeef's "revised, last and best final offer," Zack said.    Iowa Beef had closed the plant indefinitely in mid-Decemberbecause it said it had no alternative to threats by meatpackersto disrupt operations.    About 2,800 members of Local 222 are affected by theshutdown. A 3-1/2 year labor contract at the plant expiredDecember 13. Reuter
MEATPACKERS RESPOND TO OCCIDENTAL<OXY> OFFER Local 222 of the United Food andCommercial Workers Union said it is calling a membershipmeeting, possibly Sunday, to discuss its response to a decisionby Iowa Beef Processors Inc to lift a lockout at its DakotaCity, Nebraska plant and resume operations.    The UFCWU will consider all options available to itincluding a strike or returning to work under IBP's last laborcontract proposal, a spokeswoman for Local 222 said by phone.    About 2,800 UFCWU members have been locked out at theDakota City plant since December 14.    IBP is a subsidiary of Occidental Petroleum Corp. Reuter
JAPAN SETS 1987/88 FIRST HALF BEEF IMPORT QUOTA The Agriculture Ministry said it setJapan's beef import quota for the six months from April 1 at93,000 tonnes, up from 83,000 in the second half of 1986/87 and85,000 a year earlier.    Under an agreement with the U.S. And Australia, Japan hasbeen increasing imports by 9,000 tonnes a year from March 31,1985, to reach a projected 177,000 tonnes in the year to March31, 1988. REUTER
U.S. MEAT GROUP TO FILE TRADE COMPLAINTS The American Meat Institute, AME,said it intended to ask the U.S. government to retaliateagainst a European Community meat inspection requirement.    AME President C. Manly Molpus also said the industry wouldfile a petition challenging Korea's ban of U.S. meat products.    Molpus told a Senate Agriculture subcommittee that AME andother livestock and farm groups intended to file a petitionunder Section 301 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Tradeagainst an EC directive that, effective April 30, will requireU.S. meat processing plants to comply fully with EC standards.    The meat industry will seek to have the U.S. governmentretaliate against EC and Korean exports if their complaints areupheld. Reuter
U.S. MEAT GROUP TO FILE TRADE COMPLAINTS The American Meat Institute, AME,said it intended to ask the U.S. government to retaliateagainst a European Community meat inspection requirement.    AME President C. Manly Molpus also said the industry wouldfile a petition challenging Korea's ban of U.S. meat products.    Molpus told a Senate Agriculture subcommittee that AME andother livestock and farm groups intended to file a petitionunder Section 301 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Tradeagainst an EC directive that, effective April 30, will requireU.S. meat processing plants to comply fully with EC standards.   Reuter
UNION VOTES TO STRIKE DAKOTA CITY IBP PLANT Members of the United Food andCommercial Workers union, UFCW, local 222 voted Sunday to go onstrike against Iowa Beef Processors Inc Dakota City, Nebraska,plant, effective Tuesday.    The company submitted their latest offer to the union atthe same time announcing that they would end the lockout as oftomorrow that started December 14.    Members unanimously rejected the latest company offer thatwas submitted to the union late last week. An overwhelmingmajority of the approximately 2,500 members attending themeeting then voted to go on strike, UFCW union spokesman AllenZack said.    Zack said the company's offer for a cut in wages wasunacceptable and said IBP was refusing to bargain in goodfaith.    IBP's latest offer included wage cuts of 60 cents an hourfor slaughter operations and a 45 cents an hour cut in pay forprocessing workers. The cut follows the 1.07 dlr cut in payworkers received in 1982 and the wage freeze that has lastedsince then, Zack said.    The offer also eliminated overtime after eight hoursfollowing the normal 40 hour work week, he added. Reuter
UNION VOTES TO STRIKE DAKOTA CITY IBP PLANT The United Food and Commercial Workersunion, Local 222 said its members voted Sunday to strike theIowa Beef Processors Inc Dakota City, Neb., plant, effectiveTuesday.    The company said it submitted its latest offer to the unionat the same time announcing that on Tuesday it would end alockout that started December 14.    Union members unanimously rejected the latest company offerthat was submitted to the union late last week, UFCW unionspokesman Allen Zack said. Reuter
JAPAN SEEN REDUCING BEEF, PORK INTERVENTION PRICES The Agriculture Ministry is expected toreduce official intervention prices for beef and pork in1987/88 starting in April, but the cutback ratio has not beenset yet, industry sources said.    Production prices, the basis for setting interventionprices, have been falling because of declining compound feedprices due to low coarse grain import prices, they said.    Last November an advisory panel urged the government towork on reducing officially set high farm product prices tolevels closer to international values, the sources added.    In Japan the government maintains a price stabilisationzone system for beef and pork to support domestic producers.    The stabilisation zone is kept by the semi-governmentLivestock Industry Promotion Corp (LIPC) through a buffer stockoperation in the wholesale market.    The 1987/88 beef and pork price stabilisation zone will beset by the end of March after an advisory panel to theAgriculture Ministry recommends the price zone at a meeting onMarch 25, ministry officials said. At present, the standard orbottom price of castrated wagyu beef, known as marbled beef, is1,400 yen per kilo, while its ceiling is 1,820, they said.    The standard price of other beef, mainly produced fromdairy steers, is now 1,090 yen per kilo and the ceiling is1,420, the officials said. The pork standard price is now 540yen per kilo and the ceiling 760.    They said the domestic beef intervention price influencesimported beef selling prices on the domestic market.    Japan sets an annual beef import quota. A semi-governmentbody imports most of this and releases it to wholesalers orprocessors in line with the standard price of other beefcategories in an attempt to avoid jeoparadising domestic beefprices, they said. REUTER
RENEWED BULL SPREADING LIKELY ON CATTLE REPORT Livestock analysts expect renewed bullspreading in live cattle futures following yesterday's USDA7-state cattle on feed report.    The USDA reported high placements in February, which mayweigh on back months of cattle futures. Meanwhile, continuedstrong marketings during the month will support the Aprilcontract.    Contracts for June delivery forward could open 25 to 50cents lower while April will likely open about steady, analystssaid.    Cheap corn is still the main incentive for putting cattleon feed, according to Smith Barney livestock analyst TomO'Hare. "They have no place to send the grain," he said.    Strong daily fundamentals may add to nearby support whilethe current discount of deferred months to the cash market mayoffset much of the effect of the report, analysts said.    "The cash market is strong and may overshadow the report,"said Robin Fuller, analyst for Agri Analysis. She added thateven though placements came in above the average trade guess,many traders had expected high placements.    Placements are not that negative, especially since thetechnical correction in June and August live cattle futuressince last week, GH Miller analyst Jerry Gidel said.    He said the current marketing posture will provide addedsupport to the nearby month. Feedlot marketings have beenrunning at a heavier than expected pace.    Chuck Levitt, analyst for Shearson Lehman said that withthe number of cattle on feed down five pct at the beginning ofthe year, a three pct decline in marketings was expected. Butthe report for January showed marketings at 101 pct of a yearago and in February marketings were at 100 pct, Levitt noted.    "So far we haven't seen any decline in marketings. They(feedlot operators) are marketing more cattle than they hadintended for the first quarter, which is a bullishdevelopment," Levitt said.    Gidel also noted that marketings for the early part ofMarch are running ahead of a year ago. Feedlots are not fallingbehind and are holding that 100 pct marketing pace. Reuter
IBP (OXY) PLANT REOPENS WITHOUT INCIDENT Iowa Beef Processors Inc said"hundreds" of its employees returned to work at its DakotaCity, Nebraska beef processing plant without incident.    Last week, Iowa Beef said it would lift a lockout in effectat the plant since mid-December, which affected 2,800 membersof the United Food and Commercial Workers Union.    Both union and non-union meatpackers who returned to work,agreed to comply with Iowa Beef's last contract offer.    "Start-up went well today and operations will continue topick up as employees return and others are hired," according toa company statement. Picketing UFCWU members at the plant didnot disrupt operations, a company spokesman said.    "Our employees are asked to continue to return to work at8AM unless otherwise notified," he said.    Iowa Beef, a subsidiary of Occidental Petroleum Corp, saidit is beginning to take applications for permanent positions atthe plant.     Reuter
U.S. TO ASK JAPAN TO DROP BEEF RESTRICTIONS U.S. Agriculture SecretaryRichard Lyng will ask the Japanese Government to remove allbeef import restrictions when he visits there next month.    Lyng's remarks came in a speech at Oklahoma StateUniversity today.    "We think Japanese consumers should have the same freedomof choice as our consumers. Look at all the Japanese camerasand tape recorders in this room. We know they'd buy more beefif they had the opportunity," Lyng said. Reuter
EC COLD AID FOOD SCHEME MAY BE MADE PERMANENT Emergency action to distributeEuropean Community (EC) food surpluses to the poor has provedso successful that the EC executive Commission may propose apermanent scheme, a Commission spokesman said.    Almost 60,000 tonnes of food was taken out of EC storesbetween January 20, when Agriculture Ministers approved thescheme, and March 13, according to latest commission figures.    The food, including 30,000 tonnes of cereals, 6,000 tonnesof sugar, 4,000 tonnes of beef and 13,300 tonnes of butter, hasbeen distributed to the needy through charities.    The present scheme was approved as an emergency measure tohelp poor people affected by this year's unusually cold winterand will end on March 31.    But the spokesman said the commission will consider whetherto propose it be replaced by an all-year-round system.    The commission estimates that up to March 13 the temporaryscheme cost between 63 and 68 mln European currency units(72/78 mln dlrs). This is above the 50 mln Ecu (57 mln dlr)ceiling originally envisaged by the Ministers.    However, commission sources said the real cost was small ifaccount is taken of the expense of keeping food in store untilits quality and value deteriorates.    On the other hand, the impact of the temporary scheme on ECfood surpluses has been slight. EC surplus food stocks atJanuary 31 included 1.28 mln tonnes of butter, 520,000 tonnesof beef and over 10 mln tonnes of cereals. Reuter
U.S. SENATORS SEEK TO EXPAND USDA EXPORT BONUS Leading U.S. farm state senators areseeking to insert into the Senate's omnibus trade bill aprovision that would broaden eligibility requirements under theU.S. Agriculture Department's export enhancement program, EEP,to include traditional buyers of U.S. farm products, includingthe Soviet Union, Senate staff said.    Under existing criteria, USDA can offer EEP subsidies torecoup export markets lost to competing nations' unfair tradingpractices.    Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.)is leading a group of farm state senators in an effort tobroaden the criteria in such a way as to enable Moscow to beeligible for the subsidies, sources said.    The senators -- including Senate Finance Committee ChairmanLloyd Bentsen (D-Tex.), Max Baucus (D-Mont.), David Pryor(D-Ark.), John Melcher (D-Mont.) and Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) --also may fold into the trade bill a measure to shield porkproducers and processors from Canadian imports.    The measure, sponsored by Sen. Charles Grassley (R-Iowa),would clarify the definition of "industry" in determining whetheror not imports were causing injury to U.S. producers.    Grassley's bill stems from a 1985 decision by theInternational Trade Commission that imports from Canada of liveswine -- but not fresh, chilled and frozen pork -- were harmingU.S. producers.    The bill's proponents have argued Canada has simplyreplaced shipments of live hogs with fresh pork. Reuter
JAPAN BEEF PRICE SUPPORT CUT WILL NOT RAISE DEMAND Japan's plan to cut beef interventionprices for the fiscal year starting April 1 will not boostdemand because of strict supply controls and a complexdistribution system, Japanese and U.S. Industry sources said.    "Government beef policy protects farmers rather than meetingconsumers' demands and the cutback ... Is too marginal," aHousewives Association of Japan official said.    Despite mounting U.S. Pressure on Japan to open farmmarkets, beef is strictly controlled by the government, whichmaintains a price stabilisation zone to protect farmers.    Under the plan, expected to be announced this month, thestandard or bottom price of castrated wagyu -- known as marbledbeef -- will be set at 1,370 yen per kilo for 1987/88 against1,400 now, and the ceiling at 1,780 yen against 1,820.    The standard price of other beef, mainly produced fromdairy steers, is set at 1,020 yen against 1,090 and the ceilingat 1,325 against 1,420.    Ministry officials said the semi-government LivestockIndustry Promotion Corp (LIPC) conducts buffer stock operationsto help keep wholesale beef prices within the interventionprice zone.    The LIPC is allowed to import most beef, with the amountset by the government under a quota system. When wholesaleprices go above the ceiling, the LIPC releases its beef stocks,both domestic and imported, and buys locally produced beef whenprices are below.    But the LIPC has often been criticised for releasing beefstocks when the prices are higher than the ceiling.    Phillip Seng, Asian Director of the U.S. Meat ExportFederation, told Reuters the two pct cut in prices is a steptoward closing the gap with European Community prices, abouthalf those in Japan.    But Seng said the cut will not benefit consumers or U.S.Meat exporters because of Japan's rigid and complicateddistribution system and strict supply control by the LIPC.    The Housewives Association official said retail beef pricesare high mainly because of distribution problems and highproduction costs, as well as poor operations by the LIPC.    American meat packers see Japan as a promising market. F.C.Beatty, of U.S. Packer John Morrell and Co, told the JapanTimes beef cuts, which sell for 1.20 to 3.00 dlrs a pound inthe U.S., Are sold at 15 to 30 dlrs in Japan.    But Seng said the cut will not benefit consumers or U.S.Meat exporters because of Japan's rigid and complicateddistribution system and strict supply control by the LIPC.    The Housewives Association official said retail beef pricesare high mainly because of distribution problems and highproduction costs, as well as poor operations by the LIPC.    American meat packers see Japan as a promising market. F.C.Beatty, of U.S. Packer John Morrell and Co, told the JapanTimes beef cuts, which sell for 1.20 to 3.00 dlrs a pound inthe U.S., Are sold at 15 to 30 dlrs in Japan.    But industry sources said it is unclear how much demandwill pick up if retail beef prices drop following any sharpreduction in intervention prices.    U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said this week hewill ask Japan to remove all beef import restrictions when hevisits here next month.    In 1984, Japan decided to increase its beef import quota by9,000 tonnes a year until March 31, 1988.    In 1987/88, the quota will rise to 177,000 tonnes from168,000 in 1986/87, ministry officials said, adding Japan wantsto keep self-sufficiency in beef at around 70 pct. REUTER
FRANCE WILL FIGHT EC FARM PROPOSALS - MINISTER French Agricultural MinisterFrancois Guillaume warned that France would flatly rejectproposed reforms of the European Community, EC, cereals, sugarand oilseeds sectors, which he said would disrupt thesemarkets.    The EC Commission's proposals to shorten the interventionperiod and lower monthly premiums for cereals and increase thefinancial burden on the sugar producers will also result inlower real prices for producers, he told farmers here.    "I give you my word that France, while it will not rejecttechnical adjustments or serious discussion, will simply replyin the negative to these bad reforms," Guillaume told the annualconference of the country's major farm union, FNSEA (Federation Nationale des Syndicats Dexploitants Agricoles).    Community agricultural ministers are due to meet againMonday to try and agree a package of reforms to curb spirallingEC output and fix farm prices for 1987/88.    Relations between the government and farmers have becomestrained in France in recent months.    There have been sporadic but frequent demonstrations byfarmers protesting over sharp falls in meat and pork prices andfurther cutbacks in Community milk output.    But Guillaume's warning that he would reject reorganisationof the EC cereal and sugar markets -- France being a majorproducer of both crops -- won him warm applause from theFNSEA's farmers.    His pledge to fight the EC proposals and push for thecomplete dismantling of the system of cross border taxesdesigned to smooth out currency differences known as MonetaryCompensatory Amounts, MCA's, however, are unlikely to avoidfurther protests by producers.    Farm leader Raymond Lacombe said the union planned to goahead with a series of major protests both in France and abroadagainst the EC Commission's proposals to overhaul the farmsector.    "The Minister's proposals back up our determination toorganise union action in the coming weeks," he told reporters,adding that this could also act in Guillaume's favour on aministerial level.    Guillaume was head of the FNSEA for many years before beingappointed farm minister last spring.    Lacombe refused to say whether the farmers felt thatGuillaume was doing a good job as farm minister.    There have been certain advances on cutting productioncosts, reducing fiscal costs and awarding drought aid, butthere are still areas where more could be done such as onfarmers' indebtedness, he said.    Guillaume told the conference the government will makeavailable 2.4 billion francs (396 mln dlrs) to help producersreduce milk output and to encourage older farmers to retire.    The government has already announced financial aid for themilk sector and it was not clear how much of the packageannounced today was new aid, Lacombe said. Reuter
BOTSWANA BANS ZIMBABWE MEAT PRODUCTS, AGENCY SAYS Botswana has stopped importing almostall meat products from Zimbabwe after reports of a suspectedoutbreak of foot and mouth disease in the neighbouring country.    Botswana's official news agency, BOPA, announcing the banlast night, quoted Agriculture Minister Daniel Kwelagobe assaying only sterilised and canned animal products would beallowed into the country, with immediate effect.    He said Zimbabwean veterinary officials had notified himthat they suspected foot and mouth disease had broken out atInsiza, 100 km northeast of Bulawayo, capital of the mainlycattle-ranching southwestern province of Matabeleland.    Zimbabwean officials were not immediately available forcomment.    The ban will affect products such as uncanned meat, milk,ham, butter and bacon, BOPA reported.    Botswana exports much of its high-grade beef to theEuropean Community and augments its local supplies with meatimports from Zimbabwe. REUTER
EC EXTENDS PARTS OF FREE FOOD FOR POOR SCHEME A scheme to distribute surplus foodfree to the poor in the European Community (EC), which was dueto expire next Tuesday, will be partially extended for afurther month, an EC Commission spokesman said.    He added the executive Commission has not yet decidedwhether the scheme should become a permanent feature of theEC's struggle to find a use for its massive stocks of farmproduce.    Almost 60,000 tonnes of cereals, sugar, beef, butter andother food have been authorised for distribution under anoperation sanctioned by EC farm ministers on January 20 inwhich charities act as executive Commission agents.    The original idea was to help the needy survive this year'sunusually cold European winter.    The spokesman said the Commission was extending the schemefully in Greece, which has recently been hit by unseasonalsnowstorms, for the month of April.    Other EC countries would be authorised to use stocks offood for which they have already applied under the scheme up toApril 30. The spokesman said this would enable distribution offlour, semolina, sugar and olive oil at a relatively high ratenext month.    He said the Commission, which has powers to continue mostaspects of the scheme without consulting ministers further,will be considering soon whether it should be made permanent.    Cost, which has already reached around 65 mln Europeancurrency units, would be a major consideration.    End-January stocks included 1.28 mln tonnes of butter,520,000 tonnes of beef and over 10 mln tonnes of cereals. REUTER
ZIMBABWE CONFIRMS HOOF-AND-MOUTH DISEASE Zimbabwe has confirmed an outbreak ofthe animal-borne hoof-and-mouth disease, which promptedBotswana on Thursday to stop imports of almost all Zimbabweanmeat products.    Agriculture Ministry Permanent Secretary Robbie Mupawosesaid it had been found at a ranch in southwestern Matabelelandprovince and that all measures were being taken to contain itfrom spreading. "The effect of this outbreak on Zimbabwe's beefexports is being examined," he added in a statement.    Zimbabwe exports a wide range of meat products toneighbouring states and some 8,000 tonnes of high-grade beef tothe European Community annually worth about 48 mln U.S. Dlrs. REUTER
EC MINISTERS EXTEND BEEF, MILK MARKETING YEARS European Community agricultureministers agreed to extend the 1986/87 milk and beef marketingyears to the end of May, Belgian minister Paul de Keersmaekertold a news conference.    He said the reason for the two-month extension of the onlyEC farm product marketing years which end during the springmonths was that it would be impossible for ministers formallyto agree 1987/88 farm price arrangements before May 12.    This is when the European Parliament is due to deliver itsopinion on price proposals from the EC Commission. Reuter
ESTIMATED U.S. POULTRY SLAUGHTER The United States department ofagriculture estimated live poultry slaughter for the weekending April 1  as follows, in thousands -            Current      Previous Class      week         week Bro/Fry      92,552      95,563  Lt Fowl       2,840       3,354  Hvy Fowl        651         789  Check Total  96,043      99,706  Reuter
EXOTIC NEWCASTLE DISEASE IN MD/NEW YORK-USDA Exotic Newcastle, a highly contagiousdisease of pet birds and poultry, has been confirmed in twopet-bird dealer facilities in Maryland, and New York, the U.S.Agriculture Department said.    The department said no domestic poultry are involved in theoutbreak.    State quarantines have been placed on the two facilities,in Hunt Valley, Maryland, and Schenectady, New York.    The most serious U.S. outbreak of the disease occurred in1971-73 in southern California, where the disease spread frominfected pet birds to a dense poultry population and nearly 12mln birds, mostly laying hens, were destroyed at a cost of 56mln dlrs, the department said. Reuter
BRAZIL TO EXPORT POULTRY, MEAT TO IRAQ FOR OIL Brazil will export 6,000 tonnesof poultry and 10,000 tonnes of frozen meat to Iraq in exchangefor oil, Petrobras Commercial Director Carlos Sant'Anna said.    Brazil has a barter deal with Iraq and currently imports215,000 barrels per day of oil, of which 170,000 bpd are paidfor with exports of Brazilian goods to that country. Reuter
LYNG SETS TOUGH U.S. STANCE WITH JAPAN ON BEEF U.S. Agriculture Secretary RichardLyng warned Japan that the failure to remove a longstanding import quota on Japanese beef might spark a protectionistresponse in the United States.    "Given the protectionist mood in the Congress and thecountry, if I were a leader in Japan I would certainly be veryconcerned...and the failure to remove it (the beef quota) mightbe very serious," Lyng told a group of U.S cattlemen.    Lyng said he and Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter,during a visit to Japan later this month, will demand "totalelimination" of the beef import quota by April 1988.    The current dispute with Japan over semiconductor maystrengthen the U.S. stance in farm trade negotiations, Lyngsaid, because Japan does not want a trade war with the U.S.    Lyng dismissed recent statements in Tokyo that Japan mightretaliate against U.S. products as a result of thesemiconductor dispute.    "They (Japan) aren't going to pick a fight with us," Lyngsaid, adding that with its huge bilateral trade surplus Japanhas more to lose in a trade war than the United States.    Lyng told the U.S. cattlemen that the quota on Japanesebeef imports does not allow consumers there an adequate choicein food purchases.    He said in addition to beef, the U.S. will press foreliminiation of import barriers on Japan's citrus and rice aswell.    Lyng noted that Japan is the largest buyer of U.S. farmproducts, principally grains and soybeans. Reuter
LYNG DEFENDS U.S. MEAT INSPECTION SYSTEM U.S. Agriculture Secretary RichardLyng, reacting to recent criticism of U.S. meat inspection,defended the program saying the United States has the bestinspection system in the world.    Speaking to representatives of the U.S. NationalCattlemen's Association, NCA, Lyng attacked what he calledrecent "terribly biased" press reports critical of USDA poultryinspection. He cited a report on CBS "60 Minutes" whichcriticized USDA salmonella detection in poultry.    "I know we have the finest meat and poultry inspectionsystem in the world," Lyng told the cattlemen.    Lyng said USDA makes every effort to minimize the levels ofsalmonella in poultry, but added "the total elimination ofharmful bacteria is virtually impossible in this world." Reuter
JAPAN/U.S. AGRICULTURE TALKS SET FOR APRIL 17, 20 Agriculture Minister Mutsuki Kato said hewill meet U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng here on April17 and 20 to discuss bilateral farm trade issues. Lyng willvisit Tokyo from April 16 to 27.    Kato told reporters after a cabinet meeting all topics ofconcern to the U.S. Will be discussed, such as trade in beefand oranges and import controls on farm products. He saidShintaro Abe, the ruling Liberal Democratic Party's executivecouncil chairman, would propose some unspecified measures inresponse to demands to ease import controls on U.S. Farmproducts. Kato declined to give any details. REUTER
JAPAN'S LIPC TO BUY BEEF ON APRIL 23 Japan's Livestock Industry Promotion Corp(LIPC) said that on April 28 it will import 7,515 tonnes ofbeef for the first half of the 1987 fiscal year started onApril 1 under the simultaneous buy and sell tender system,against 6,813 a year ago.    The system calls on the agency to buy beef from tradinghouses and simultaneously sell it to users in one tender. Thetender quota in April-September is 10 pct of the agency's beefimport share. Japan's beef import quota in 1987/88 was set at93,000 tonnes against 85,000 for the same period in 1986/87. REUTER
JAPAN MINISTRY SAYS OPEN FARM TRADE WOULD HIT U.S. Japan's Agriculture Ministry, angered byU.S. Demands that Japan open its farm products market, willtell U.S. Officials at talks later this month thatliberalisation would harm existing U.S. Farm exports to Japan,a senior ministry official said.    "Imports from the U.S. Would drop due to active sales drivesby other suppliers," the official, who declined to be named,said. "Japan is the largest customer for U.S. Farm products andit is not reasonable for the U.S. To demand Japan liberaliseits farm import market," he said.    Agriculture Minister Mutsuki Kato has said if the U.S.Insists Japan open its protected rice market it will also openits wheat market, where volume and origin are regulated toprotect local farmers.    Australia and Canada could then increase their wheatexports as they are more competitive than the U.S., He said.End-users would also buy other origins, grain traders said.    U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng, who is due tovisit Japan for talks between April 16-27, has said he will askJapan to offer a share of its rice market to U.S. Suppliers andremove quotas on U.S. Beef and citrus imports.    Other countries are already cutting into the U.S. Marketshare here. Australia, the largest beef supplier to Japan, hasbeen trying to boost exports prior to the expiry of a four-yearbeef accord next March 31.    Imports of U.S. Corn have fallen due to increased salesfrom China and South America, while Japanese soybean importsfrom Brazil are expected to rise sharply this year, althoughthe U.S. Will remain the largest supplier.    U.S. Feedgrain sales will also drop if Japan opens up itsbeef imports, since Japan depends almost entirely on feedgrainimports, mainly from the U.S., Japanese officials said.    An indication of the U.S. Position came last December whenUnder Secretary of Agriculture Daniel Amstutz said Japan hasthe potential to provide one of the largest boosts to U.S.Agricultural exports, with the beef market alone representingsome one billion dlrs in new business.    The U.S. Has also asked the General Agreement on Tariffsand Trade to investigate the legality of Japanese importcontrols on 12 other farm products, including fruit juices,purees and pulp, tomato juice, ketchup and sauce, peanuts,prepared beef products and miscellaneous beans.    To help calm heated trade relations with the U.S., Japan'stop business group Keidanren has urged the government to removeresidual import restrictions on agricultural products.    But Agriculture Minister Kato has ruled out any emotionalreaction, and the senior ministry official said the farm issueshould not become a scapegoat for trade pressure in theindustrial sector.    "Japan is the largest buyer of U.S. Farm products, and theseissues should not be discussed on the same table," the officialsaid. REUTER
U.S. MEAT, POULTRY INSPECTION CALLED FAULTY The U.S. meat and poultry inspectionprograms are incapable of protecting consumers fromcontaminated products, groups representing inspectors andconsumers charged.    "The whole trend of inspection for the last 10 years hasbeen to corrupt and to degrade the system where today thepublic is at constant risk to contaminated and adulteratedmeat," Kenneth Blaylock, president of the American Federation ofGovernment Employees, told a House Agriculture subcommittee.    "The American consumer has little reason to feel confidentabout the safety of meat and poultry being offered to himtoday," said Rodney Leonard, executive director of the CommunityNutrition Institute.    "Company management is less concerned about the risk tohealth than about raising plant output and company profits,"Leonard told a hearing of the House Agriculture Subcommittee onLivestock, Dairy and Poultry.    Kenneth Morrison, staff associate at the GovernmentAccountability Project, said inspectors consistently discloseviolations of federal law, demonstrating a "serious breakdown inthe entire inspection system."    Morrison told of chicken fat for flavoring beingcontaminated by "intestines dragging in a water trough used toflush away the condemned product, fecal material, human spit,chewing gum and paper towels used by plant employees to blowtheir noses."    Donald Houston, administrator of the U.S. AgricultureDepartment's Food Safety and Inspection Service, FSIS, defendedthe government's program, calling it "one of the most respectedpublic health programs in the world."    FSIS inspects an estimated 127 mln head of cattle and 4.5billion chicken and turkeys every year.    Houston said inspection programs have kept pace withchange, but conceded that the danger of chemical residues inthe meat and poultry supply has increased.    He also said that, although he was confident the bacteriumsalmonella eventually could be eradicated, it would take timeand much money to contain the growing problem.    Salmonella, which in extreme cases can cause death, isfound in approximately 37 pct of U.S. broilers, 12 pct of rawpork and three to five pct of raw beef, Houston said.    The number of reported cases has doubled over the past 20years, he said, to 40,000 cases annually.    "We certainly really have not found an effective means ofturning this disease around," said Rep. James Olin (D-Va.)    The National Research Council recommended in 1985 that FSISintensify efforts to develop rapid diagnostic procedures fordetecting microoganisms.    But the meat and poultry industries have said such controlswould cost too much.    "Hopefully we will not overreact by installing unnecessarilycomplicated procedures that may become obstacles to the realgoal of providing an increasingly safer, more nutritious andeconomical meat supply for consumers," Stanley Emerling,executive vice president of the National Association of MeatPurveyors, said.    Blaylock, speaking on behalf of food inspectors, said a newprogram allowing elimination of USDA inspection functions atcertain plants "voids the law in letter and spirit, and must berepealed or we will see rising consumer fraud and an epidemicof death and illness for which there will be no prevention norlegal recourse."    Subcommittee Chairman Charles Stenholm (D-Tex.) said thepanel would hold a hearing on salmonella June 2. Reuter
EASTERN DISTRIBUTIVE BEEF TRADE WEEKLY - USDA Demand good for moderatesupplies of most beef cuts, However, limited interest noted fortenderloins/flank steaks. Yield grade 2-3 beef cuts, fabricateditems, vacuum packed.                          LBS    CHOICE ROUND CUTS -steady/up 11.00                  160 round, part bnls     50-85  few 137 161 round, bnls          42-80  few 147 161 diamond cut          49-85  few 149 167 knuckle               8-15  few 148 167a knuckle, peeled      8-15  few 163 168 top inside round     14-26  165-175 170 bottom gooseneck rnd 18-33  131-135 More
DISEASE PUTS ZIMBABWE BEEF EXPORTS IN JEOPARDY Zimbabwe's beef exports to the EuropeanCommunity (EC), potentially worth 70 mln Zimbabwean dlrs thisyear, may be jeopardised by an outbreak of foot and mouthdisease in southwestern Matabeleland, industry sources said.    The country has temporarily suspended beef exports to theEC because of the outbreak and awaits a decision from the ECveterinary committee, which is considering a formal ban.    The outbreak in the country's main ranching province hasalready led neighbouring beef-producing Botswana and Zambia tobar beef and dairy imports from Zimbabwe, threatening the dairyindustry with a loss of at least one mln dlrs in exportrevenue.    "The situation is still uncertain at the moment. Normallywhen an outbreak occurs there is an automatic suspension ofbeef exports," one industry source said yesterday.     Commenting on EC policy, he explained, "Depending on theseriousness of the outbreak the (veterinary) committee thendecides on three options, allowing us to continue exportingbeef from disease-free areas, clamping a three-month suspensionon exports or banning us from exporting for a year. We arestill awaiting their decision," he added, asking not to beidentified.    Zimbabwe was granted an export quota of 8,100 tonnes ofhigh-grade beef to EC markets in 1985 after the country hadspent millions of dollars erecting disease-control fences andupgrading abattoirs to meet stringent EC rules.    Should the EC ban Zimbabwean exports, the country will beforced to sell its beef on glutted world beef markets at lowprices, the source said. Projected earnings from beef salescould fall about 23 mln dlrs as a result, he said. Reuter
SWIFT TO SELL SOUTH DAKOTA PORK PLANT Swift Independent Packing Co said itagreed in principle to sell its Huron, South Dakota, pork plantto Huron Dressed Beef, for undisclosed terms.    Completion of the proposed transaction is subject toHuron's ability to hire an experienced work force atcompetitive rates, and receive government approval of thepurchase and operation of the plant, Swift said. Reuter
EC MEAT DIRECTIVE DEADLINE SEEN FLEXIBLE U.S. officials said they held outlittle hope the European Community, EC, would withdraw acontroversial meat inspection requirement, due to go intoeffect April 30 and which U.S. meat producers claim will cutoff their exports.    But the officials said they expect the EC to allow U.S.plants to continue shipping meat through the end of the yearprovided they submit a plant improvement program with the U.S.Agriculture Department.    The EC's so-called Third Country Meat Directive willrequire foreign meat processing plants to comply fully with ECinspection standards beginning April 30.    The U.S. meat industry has prepared a petition requestingthe Reagan administration to retaliate against the EC rule.    At issue are U.S. meat exports to the EC valued at 132 mlndlrs in 1985.    The EC rule would require all U.S. plants to make changesin their inspection methods, ranging from veterinary staffingto use of wood.    Last December, the EC determined that only one U.S. cattle,one hog and one sheep slaughtering facility could be approvedwithout further review. USDA would have to certify that theplants had corrected the deficiencies.    All remaining plants with a history or potential ofshipping to the EC -- totaling nearly 400 -- would require moresignificant changes in plant constructions or procedures beforefurther EC review.    Robert Hibbert, general counsel for the American MeatInstitute, said the meat industry expected to submit a formaltrade retaliation petition by April 30.    An interagency committee is reviewing the industry's draftpetition.    An official at the U.S. Trade Representative's Office saidU.S. officials continued to press the EC to withdraw the rule,but that "the chances of that are not too good at this time."    However, there is the "expectation" in U.S. government andmeat industry circles that the EC will continue to allowshipments, at least through the end of the calendar year, fromU.S. plants that submit to USDA a plan on how they will bringtheir operations into conformity with the EC regulation, theUSTR official said. Reuter
LYNG OPENS JAPAN TALKS ON FARM TRADE BARRIERS U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyngopens talks with Japanese government officials today well awarehis demand for the opening of Japanese rice, beef and citrusmarkets is likely to be rejected.     But in an interview with Reuters during the flight toTokyo yesterday, Lyng said the goal of his trip was to throw aninternational spotlight on Japan's agricultural importprotection in the hope pressure would build on Tokyo to openits markets.    "(The Japanese) have said they are happy we are coming, butthey are not going to give us anything," Lyng said.    U.S. Officials do not expect any Japanese concessionsduring Lyng's two-week visit here. Any farm trade concessionswould be unveiled later this month, they said.    "If there is anything of consequence to offer (PrimeMinister Yasuhiro) Nakasone would take it with him," when hevisits Washington later in the month, one U.S. Official said.    Lyng plans to ask Japan to open the door to rice imports bypartially lifting the longstanding ban on foreign purchases.    A private U.S. Rice trader visited Tokyo last weekrequesting Japan buy 200,000 tonnes of rice for industrial usessuch as making sake. Japan has rejected the overture, sayingTokyo maintains a policy of self-sufficiency in rice.    Lyng will also press Japan to eliminate an import quota forbeef by April 1988 because he believes Japanese consumers wouldlike to buy much more beef than currently allowed.    He cited the example of a California company whichtransports live U.S. Cattle to Japan by air for slaughter tocircumvent the beef quota. The cost of transport is higher thanthe value of the animal, he said.    U.S. Officials said the Japan Livestock Industry PromotionCorporation which regulates beef imports, was forced to borrowfrom the fiscal 1987 quota earlier this year because the 1986quota was exhausted and Japanese beef prices were rising. Japanhas said it cannot open its markets to beef imports.    Along with beef, the U.S. Will also press Japan toeliminate import quotas on fresh oranges and orange juice byApril, 1988. Some U.S. Officials believe Japan may eventuallybe willing to scrap the quota on fresh oranges becauseliberalized trade would not necessarily damage the Japanesemandarin orange industry.    The quota on juice may be harder to eliminate becauseimports might replace domestic produced juice, U.S. AndJapanese officials have said.   Lyng has resurrected a past U.S. Proposal that Japan buysurplus U.S. Foodgrains for donation to developing countries,but some U.S. Officials are skeptical action will be taken.   Lyng will also urge Japan to put its domestic farm policies,including rice, on the negotiating table during GATT talks inGeneva. He said Japan must eliminate import quotas on certainminor food products or face possible U.S. Reprisals. REUTER
LYNG WARNS U.S. TRADE SITUATION IS EXPLOSIVE (RPT) U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyngsaid Japanese government officials do not seem to understandthat protectionist sentiment in the U.S. Could lead to anexplosive situation and protectionist legislation.    Speaking to the National Press Club of Japan, Lyng saidprotectionist sentiment in the U.S. Has increased alarminglyduring the last six months.    "It is a radically changed situation and is very explosive.We are on the verge of some very harsh mandatory retaliatorylaws which would have very serious consequences for othercountries, especially Japan," Lyng told reporters.    Lyng's comments about protectionist trade legislationappeared to be a reference to the so-called Gephardt provision,requiring retaliation against countries which have tradesurpluses with the U.S., Trade analysts said.    U.S. House majority leader Thomas Foley, a WashingtonDemocrat, yesterday predicted during a visit here that theGephardt provision will be approved by the House when tradelegislation is taken up later this month.    Senior Japanese officials do not seem to perceive thevolatility of the situation in the U.S., Where Congress isincreasingly unpredictable, he said.    "The purpose of this trip is to emphasise the fact thatpatience is beginning to be very much frayed in Washington. Icannot emphasise that enough," Lyng said.    In talks with Japanese Agriculture Minister Mutsuki Katoyesterday, Lyng and Trade representative Clayton Yeutter askedJapan to begin negotiations on its rice policy and end importquotas on beef and citrus.    Lyng said he was disappointed Kato rejected the U.S.Request but hoped it would not lead to a protectionist responsein Congress, where legislation on rice retaliation has beenintroduced in both the House and Senate.    Lyng said the U.S. Is dependent on Japan as a market forexports because Japan has been the largest buyer of U.S. Farmproducts since 1964, especially grains.    He said the U.S. Understands Japan, with a limited landarea, is concerned about maintaining some level ofself-sufficiency in food for national security reasons.    But he argued the freeing of farm product imports would notnecessarily weaken Japanese agriculture.    Lyng pledged the U.S. Will never again embargo shipments offarm products as it did in 1973. REUTER
USDA REPORTS SEEN NEGATIVE TO LIVESTOCK FUTURES Commission house livestock analystsagreed with Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders incalling today's USDA 13-state quarterly cattle on feed reportand cold storage report for pork bellies negative.    June live cattle futures are called 0.20 to 0.50 cent loweron Monday and back months of cattle are expected 0.50 to 1.00cent lower. Pork bellies are expected 0.50 to 1.00 cent or morelower, the analysts said.    Disappointment was voiced over the placement and total onfeed figures in the cattle report. Both the quarterly sectionand monthly 7-state part showed the amount placed on feed andon feed numbers at the high end of expectations.    The other disappearance figure of only three pct above ayear ago in the 7-state section was also vieved as negative.Most of the early guesses predicted a much larger number fordeath loss following the two winter snow storms that struck thewest in late March, they said.    However, weight groupings were friendly to the nearbyfutures and should prompt some bull spreading on the decline,they said.    William Arndt from Dean Witter noted that the 900 to 1,100lb steers and 700 to 900 lb heifers were at 94 pct of a yearago and should lend some support to June futures. However, 700to 900 lb steers at 119 pct will weigh on August, he said.    "The big reduction in cattle weighing over 900 lbs shouldbe friendly to the market for at least the next 30 to 60 days,"AGE Clearing analyst Jerry Abbenhaus said.    Movement of bellies into frozen storage was at the high endof expectations and should weigh on futures tomorrow,especially as futures prices ended weak today, they said.    Other parts of the cold storage report were also viewed asnegative to livestock and meat futures.    "We have a lot of poultry in storage. Even though we havesmaller pork supplies, the decline is not enough to offset theincreases in poultry," Shearson Lehman analyst Chuck Levittsaid. Also, there is more beef in storage than last year andthis was achieved on smaller production. Reuter
U.S. BEEF, CITRUS TALKS WITH JAPAN SEEN TOUGH The Reagan administration is expected toface tough resistance from Japan and from some entrenched U.S.interests, if it hopes to succeed in forcing Japan to end beefand citrus import controls by April, 1988, U.S. and Japaneseofficials said.    Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng and Trade RepresentativeClayton Yeutter took a hardline stance on beef and citrus intalks here last week, insisting that the quotas be abandoned byApril, 1988.    But that stance will be difficult to maintain because Japanwill resist the pressure fiercely and because some U.S.suppliers of those commodities have an interest in maintainingthe quotas, U.S. and Japanese officials told Reuters.    Twice in the past, the United States has negotiated withJapan on beef and citrus import quotas -- during the Tokyoround of multilateral trade negotiations in 1978, and inbilateral talks in 1984.    Each time the U.S. demanded an end to the quotas at theoutset but ultimately accepted substantial increases instead.The current agreement calls for an increase in high qualitybeef imports to 58,400 tonnes in fiscal 1987, oranges to126,000 tonnes and orange juice to 8,500 tonnes.    Lyng has said repeatedly that this time the United Stateswill not settle for simple increases in the quotas. Japan hasbeen given plenty of time to reform its agricultural supportsystem and the quotas must be scrapped, Lyng said.    Japanese officials want to begin informal talks on beef andcitrus in August or September in Hawaii, sources said.    If the U.S. intends to press its tough stance, and Japan,as expected rejects the demands, the issue may then be put tothe General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade for settlement,which would mean prolonging the friction beyond the April, 1988deadline set by the U.S., officials said.    In interviews here, Japanese officials insist that on beefthey will not liberalize imports, regardless of the U.S.pressure, because the Japanese beef industry is not competitiveand would be damaged by freer trade.    Most Japanese beef production still tends to be on smallfarms which Japanese officials said must be protected fromcheap imports by use of the quota system.    Furthermore, while the U.S. National Cattlemen'sAssociation is strongly supporting the tough administrationposition, some U.S. meat exporters and packers are ambivalent.    This is because to some U.S. exporters and packers beefexports to Japan under the quota system are a steady, reliablebusiness managed by a quasi-government Japan Livestock IndustryPromotion Corporation. Under quotas the U.S. share of Japan'sbeef market has expanded at the expense of Australia.    In the absence of quotas, some U.S. suppliers are concernedthe U.S. share might decline and exporting to Japan wouldbecome a riskier business, meat industry sources said.    Major U.S meat industry leaders will meet in Washingtonnext week, including cattlemen, processors and exporters, in aneffort to reach an industry-wide consensus toward Japan.    The citrus industry also appears split on the quota issue.California's Sunkist, the largest U.S. supplier of oranges toJapan, has expressed reservations about eliminating quotas.    A representative of Sunkist said the cooperative isconcerned that in the absence of quotas, lower quality orangesfrom Israel and South Africa might be competitive in Japan.    Ironically, some Japanese officials hinted that freshoranges may be a product on which imports could be freed with aminimum of impact on Japanese mandarin orange production.    This is because U.S. oranges do not directly compete withsmaller Japanese mandarins, officials said. But Japan wants tomaintain quotas on orange juice because it fears imported juicetastes better and would displace Japanese mandarin orangejuice, they said.    One scenario mentioned by both U.S. and Japanese officialsis that Tokyo may try to blunt the tough administration stanceby offering to scrap the quota on fresh oranges in return forU.S. acceptance of increases in beef and juice quotas.    Lyng has acknowledged that liberalization of beef andcitrus imports is a difficult objective, but he insisted duringthe week-long tour here that it is a high priority on theU.S./Japan agriculture agenda-- more important than the riceissue which received most of the attention.    Asked about the ambivalence of some in U.S. agribusiness,Lyng noted some interests on both the U.S. and Japanese sidehave benefited from quotas but this will not stop theadministration from pressing for liberalization.    And Lyng said the administration believes it can marshallmore support for eliminating the quotas now than ever before,because of concern about Japan's rising trade surplus.    "We're coming at this one (beef and citrus negotiation)with a much stronger view coming out of Washington. The timeshave changed. The trade balance is much worse," Lyng said. Reuter
NY MEAT CUTTERS UNION REJECTS LATEST OFFER Members of local 174 of the United Foodand Commercial Workers (UFCW) union, representing 1,900 meatcutters in New York city, yesterday rejected the latestmanagement offer on a new contract.    "Members rejected the latest offer by a 2 to 1 margin," BobWilson, executive officer of local 174 said. But workers havebeen asked to remain on the job while negotiations continue.    The union has been in negotiations with the Greater NewYork Association of Meat and Poultry Dealers, a group of meatwholesalers and distributors. The contract expired April 26 andthe latest management offer sought "give backs" in holiday andsick leave which the membership rejected, Wilson said. Reuter
CHICKEN NOT MAIN SALMONELLA CAUSE, OFFICIAL SAYS A representative of the poultryindustry said statistics showed that chicken is less frequentlythe cause of salmonella poisoning than beef, dairy products orsalads and other mixed foods.    Kenneth May, President of Holly Farms Poultry Industriesand a director of the National Broiler Council, told a HouseAgriculture subcommittee the incidence of salmonella in chickenhas not increased in recent years and that chicken is neitherthe major source of the bacterial poisoning nor the cause of anincrease in outbreaks of the disease.    May said the Center for Disease Control figures showed thatbetween 1978 and 1982, chicken was involved in four pct of allU.S. salmonellosis outbreaks, while beef accounted for ten pctof outbreaks and dairy products six pct.    May said the remaining outbreaks were caused by salads andmixed food, turkey, seafood, pork, eggs and other foods.    May said the chicken industry favored moving away frombird-by-bird inspection procedures to a risk assessment systembetter able to identify microbial and bacterial contaminationof poultry.    However, Ellen Haas, executive director of Public Voice forFood and Health Policy, said bird-by-bird inspection should beretained and labels should be attached to each ready-to-cookchicken to remind consumers about preparation proceduresnecessary to avoid illness.    Haas also called for a review of present chicken industryinspection methods that she said can worsen poultry hazards. Reuter
EX-USDA OFFICIAL URGES CHICKEN HANDLING LABELS A former U.S. Agriculture Departmentofficial urged the department to require that packages ofchicken be labeled with handling and cooking instructions toprotect the public from disease.    Carol Tucker Foreman, President of Foreman and Heidepriemand a former assistant secretary of agriculture for food andconsumer services, told a House Agriculture subcommittee, "everyhour of every day, 22 Americans become victims of chickencontaminated with salmonella."    She said every two and a half weeks, an American dies ofsalmonellosis or complications arising from it and theincidence of poisoning from poultry has increased steadily overthe past several years.    Foreman said USDA should follow a National Academy ofSciences recommendation to label chicken packages to remindconsumers of preparation procedures necessary to avoid illness.    She urged USDA to require that birds be washed thoroughlybefore they are defeathered and that defeathering machines becleaned several times a day, that birds be condemned if theirintestines are punctured or there is visible fecalcontamination and that chiller water be changed more often.    Kenneth Blaylock, President of the American Federation ofGovernment Employees, said a poultry industry recommendation tomove away from the current bird-by-bird inspection could prove"disastrous." He said a strengthened bird-by-bird inspection withslower line speeds was the foundation upon which new inspectiontechniques should be overlaid. Reuter
CCC ACCEPTS BONUS ON POULTRY TO IRAQ -- USDA The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC)has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of15,000 tonnes of frozen poultry to Iraq, the U.S. AgricultureDepartment said.    The poultry is for shipment June-September and the bonuswas 719.80 dlrs per tone, it said.    The bonus award was made to ConAgra Poultry Co and will bepaid in the form of commodities from the inventory of CCCstocks.    The purchase completes the Export Enhancement initiativefor Frozen Poultry to Iraq announced December 22, 1986. Reuter
CCC ACCEPTS BONUS ON POULTRY TO EGYPT -- USDA The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC)has accepted a bid for two bonus offers to cover the sale of10,000 tonnes of frozen poultry to Egypt, the U.S. AgricultureDepartment said.    The poultry is for shipment November, 1987, through August,1988, and the bonus was 473.99 dlrs per tonne for the frozenfryer legs. The bonuses were made to Gress Foods, Inc (5,000tonnes), and Serva International Ltd (5,000 tonnes).    The subsidies will be paid to the exporters in the form ofcommodities from CCC stocks.    An additional 8,500 tonnes of frozen poultry remainavailable to Egypt under the Export Enhancement Programinitiative announced Dec 19, 1986, and Feb 27, 1987, thedepartment said. Reuter
U.S. MEAT INDUSTRY LAUNCHES CAMPAIGN IN JAPAN The U.S. meat industry has launched anaggressive promotion campaign in Japan to increase consumerawareness of U.S. beef and persuade the Japanese government torelax current beef import quotas.    U.S. beef sales to Japan, currently around 480 mln dlrsannually, could increase to over two billion dlrs and as highas six billion dlrs by the year 2000 if Japanese quotas wereremoved and the Japanese consumer were made more aware of theattributes of U.S. beef, officials of the U.S. Meat ExportFederation said at a press conference today.    Partially funded with a 6.5 mln dlr award made through theAgriculture Department's Targeted Export Assistance (TEA)program, a five-year meat promotion campaign in Japan waslaunched by the U.S. Meat Export Federation in April.    "The promising Japanese beef market could be one of thebright spots for U.S. agricultural exports," said Philip Seng,Asian Director for the Federation. "We supply and they (Japan)buy a very high quality of beef. They like our beef and want tobuy more," he said.    Seng pointed to Japan's beef quota system, which limitstotal Japanese beef imports to 177,000 tonnes per year and U.S.imports to 58,400 tonnes, as the major constraint in expandingU.S. beef shipments to Japan.    The quotas were implemented in 1977 at a time of heavyJapanese foreign beef imports. The current quota agreementexpires next March and beef quota negotiations are set to getunderway this fall.    The Reagan administration has called for an end to thequotas by April, 1988, but Japanese officials have said theywould not liberalize imports regardless of the U.S. pressure.    Officials from the Meat Export Federation told Reuters thatthey do not expect a complete lifting of the quota, but thatthey hope for at least a gradual increase in the quota.    High beef prices in Japan caused by the protected markethas also kept beef consumption at modest levels, meat industryofficials said.    Japanese shoppers pay an average of 27.14 dlrs for a U.S.tenderloin steak in a restaurant and an average of 47.42 dlrsfor a Japanese-produced restaurant steak, the meat associationsaid. At the retail level, U.S. striploin sells for 9.77 dlrsper pound, while Japanese beef sells for 28.51 dlrs per lb.    Japanese consumers currently eat less than 10 lbs of beefper year, compared to 78 lbs for the average American,officials said.    Total beef consumption in Japan is now 700,000 to 800,000tonnes per year, but Seng said with the removal of quotas and adecrease in beef prices, consumption could increase to 3.2 mlntonnes. Reuter
JAPAN 1986/87 COMPOUND FEED OUTPUT UP 2.3 PCT Japanese compound feed output rose 2.3 pctto 25.80 mln tonnes in 1986/87 ended March 31 from 25.23 mln ayear earlier, the Agriculture Ministry said.    The marginal rise reflected slight growth in demand forpoultry raising and a moderate increase in demand for beefcattle raising, Ministry officials said.    Compound feed sales totalled 26.01 mln tonnes in 1986/87against 25.40 mln a year ago, while end-March stocks were217,554 tonnes against 224,101.    Corn use in feed output in 1986/87 rose to 11.71 mln tonnesfrom 11.02 mln a year earlier due to low import prices.    The officials said corn imports rose because the worldsurplus and the yen's strength against the dollar reducedChicago prices. The corn compounding ratio rose to 45.2 pct in1986/87 from 43.4 pct a year earlier.    Sorghum use rose marginally to 4.80 mln tonnes in 1986/87from 4.79 mln, but the compounding ratio fell to 18.5 pct from18.9 pct because of greater corn use. Higher import prices dueto poor harvests last year in major producing nations such asArgentina made feed makers reluctant to use sorghum.    Soybean meal use fell to 2.58 mln tonnes from 2.63 mln andthe compounding ratio declined to 10.0 pct from 10.3 pct.    The drop in soybean meal consumption resulted fromincreased use of cheaper rapeseed meal, the officials said.    Rapeseed consumption in 1986/87 was 563,889 tonnes against528,152 a year earlier. The compounding ratio rose to 2.2 pctfrom 2.1 pct. REUTER
U.S. REFUSES PARTS OF TWO AUSTRALIA BEEF CARGOES U.S. Agriculture Departmentinspectors have refused entry to parts of two lots ofAustralian beef because of pesticide residues, a spokeswomanfor the department said.    She said USDA has notified Australia, which assured it thatstricter controls would be implemented.    The Australian government had already imposed residuecontrols and it is believed the meat with the presticideresidues was already in the pipeline before the controls wereput in place, the spokeswoman said.    There have been five other cases of Australian meat whichhad residue levels above U.S. allowable limits this year, shesaid. Reuter
GATT CASE AGAINST JAPAN A MODEL FOR U.S. - LYNG Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyngsaid the ruling of a GATT panel on a U.S. trade complaintagainst Japan, expected soon, may influence the U.S. stance innegotiations with Tokyo on beef and citrus import quotas.    The ruling of a GATT tribunal on a U.S. demand that Japanend quotas on 12 categories of food items is expected by theend of the year. Lyng said he is optimistic the ruling willfavor the U.S.    "These are quota items, and the principles that apply tothem, it seems to me, will have some bearing on the question ofwhether you would have quotas or not on beef and citrus," Lyngtold Reuters in an interview.    He repeated the U.S. demand that Japan lift the quotas onbeef and citrus after March 31, next year.    The Japanese quotas on 12 food categories which the UnitedStates has challenged include items such as tomato paste, somecheeses and specialty fruit juices.    U.S. officials had hoped a ruling against the quotas wouldbe issued earlier this year but the GATT panel decision hasbeen delayed by the illness of the tribunal's chairman.    The U.S. has taken a hardline stance on the beef and citrusquotas, which Tokyo says must remain in place to protectJapanese farmers.    "We will not negotiate new quotas or accept new quotas (onbeef and citrus). If they impose them we would consider that anillegal action in the GATT, Lyng said.    He declined to say what action the U.S. would take nextApril if Japan continues to resist U.S. demands.    Reuter
U.S. TAKES TOUGH STAND ON GATT FARM ISSUES The United States is prepared to "pull outall the stops" to defend its agricultural trade rights under theGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), U.S. Ambassadorto GATT Michael Samuels said.    Those rights are now being challenged by the EuropeanCommunity's (EC) agricultural support policies, he told aconference sponsored by the American Soybean Association.    He reiterated Washington's firm intention to retaliate ifthe EC goes ahead and bans imports of hormone-fed beef withoutthe issue being investigated by a GATT special committee.    The U.S. claims the EC directive, due to come into effecton January 1, threatens to cut 100 mln dlrs worth of U.S. meatshipments into the EC.    The U.S. also will oppose all EC efforts to impair U.S.trade via the EC oilseeds regime, which supports EC oilseedprices over the current market level and which may be extendedto include a hotly disputed oils and fats tax, Samuels said.    Reduction of trade-distorting world agricultural subsidies,an aim of most key participants in GATT multilateral tradenegotiations, "is meaningless if import barriers continue to beerected," Samuels said.    Samuels called the U.S. plan to eliminate world farmsubsidies by the year 2000, proposed at GATT in July, "visionary"and "very serious."  The EC and Japan have said it isunrealistic.    The EC Commission this month announced its draft proposalon farm trade reform, expected to be tabled at GATT formallynext week.    The EC scheme involves emergency measures to reducetensions in troubled surplus sectors of cereals and cerealssubstitutes, dairy and sugar. It also calls for reduction offarm subsidies.    The U.S. Is not opposed to short-term measures, as long asthey are directly linked to long-term commitments to end majortrade distortions, Samuels said.    Washington will review the EC proposal when it is formallysubmitted and respond to it officially then.    "We will consider its relation to the Punta del Estedeclaration to correct trade problems and expand market access,"the U.S. Ambassador said.    The U.S. can say no to the EC proposal if the EC ignoresthe U.S. plan when it tables its own proposal, he added.    The key difference between the two approaches is that theU.S. wants farm subsidies eliminated, while the EC is pushingonly for a reduction in farm suppports, Samuels said.    If the EC farm budget were protected by a subsidy freeze,there would be little incentive for the Community to work tocorrect the international trade situation, he added.    Samuels cited the animal hormones complaint, the ECoilseeds regime and an EC regulation concerning meat imports tothird countries as three crucial barriers to trade which theU.S. wants to see resolved under the auspices of GATT. Reuter
EC AGREES TRADE DEAL WITH ARGENTINA The European Community (EC) agreed atrade deal with Argentina designed to compensate the countryfollowing the entry of Spain and Portugal into the group, ECofficials said.    Under the deal agreed by EC foreign ministers, Argentinawill gain additional trading rights on a series of productsincluding meat, fish and cereals by-products.    But ministers failed to agree on new trade deals withCanada and Japan and are due to study these again, theofficials said.    The deal with Argentina was agreed by a majority of ECstates after West Germany withdrew objections to increasedquotas for Argentina on high-quality beef.    Ireland and France continued to oppose the deal on meat,saying that the main dispute was over sales of cerealssubstitutes, but they were outvoted by the other states, theofficials said. Under the deal, Argentina will benefit fromimproved quotas on exports of beef to the EC. In particular thequota on high-quality Hilton beef will be raised by 4,500tonnes to 34,300 tonnes and quotas on frozen boneless beef willbe increased by 3,000 tonnes to 53,000 tonnes.    Argentina will also benefit from an additional quota of5,000 tonnes of frozen hake fillets at 10 pct duty and reducedlevies on 550,000 tonnes of wheat bran, the officials said.    The improved trade terms were offered after Argentina saidthat Spain and Portugal's entry into the EC affected theirexports of cereals substitutes to these two countries. Theyhave been negotiated under the rules of GATT (General Agreementon Tariffs and Trade).    But officials said ministers had been unable to resolveCanadian claims that its sales of certain fish to Spain hadbeen affected by the country's EC membership.    Officials said the EC had asked GATT to arbitrate on thefish dispute with Canada.    Ministers also decided to continue talks with Japan. The ECclaims that Spain and Portugal's entry into the group hasimproved trade conditions for Japan but has been unsatisfiedwith Japanese offers of compensation.    Japan's main offers were to improve inspection systems oncitrus fruits to aid EC exports, to improve tariffs for someother farm produce, to increase tariffs for leather footwearand to offer better trade terms for Spain and Portugal.    EC External Trade Commissioner Willy De Clercq toldjournalists: "We maintain our position that the (Japanese)concessions were not enough."    "We hope that there will be an improvement," he said. Reuter
