BAHIA COCOA REVIEW Showers continued throughout the week inthe Bahia cocoa zone, alleviating the drought since earlyJanuary and improving prospects for the coming temporao,although normal humidity levels have not been restored,Comissaria Smith said in its weekly review.    The dry period means the temporao will be late this year.    Arrivals for the week ended February 22 were 155,221 bagsof 60 kilos making a cumulative total for the season of 5.93mln against 5.81 at the same stage last year. Again it seemsthat cocoa delivered earlier on consignment was included in thearrivals figures.    Comissaria Smith said there is still some doubt as to howmuch old crop cocoa is still available as harvesting haspractically come to an end. With total Bahia crop estimatesaround 6.4 mln bags and sales standing at almost 6.2 mln thereare a few hundred thousand bags still in the hands of farmers,middlemen, exporters and processors.    There are doubts as to how much of this cocoa would be fitfor export as shippers are now experiencing dificulties inobtaining +Bahia superior+ certificates.    In view of the lower quality over recent weeks farmers havesold a good part of their cocoa held on consignment.    Comissaria Smith said spot bean prices rose to 340 to 350cruzados per arroba of 15 kilos.    Bean shippers were reluctant to offer nearby shipment andonly limited sales were booked for March shipment at 1,750 to1,780 dlrs per tonne to ports to be named.    New crop sales were also light and all to open ports withJune/July going at 1,850 and 1,880 dlrs and at 35 and 45 dlrsunder New York july, Aug/Sept at 1,870, 1,875 and 1,880 dlrsper tonne FOB.    Routine sales of butter were made. March/April sold at4,340, 4,345 and 4,350 dlrs.    April/May butter went at 2.27 times New York May, June/Julyat 4,400 and 4,415 dlrs, Aug/Sept at 4,351 to 4,450 dlrs and at2.27 and 2.28 times New York Sept and Oct/Dec at 4,480 dlrs and2.27 times New York Dec, Comissaria Smith said.    Destinations were the U.S., Covertible currency areas,Uruguay and open ports.    Cake sales were registered at 785 to 995 dlrs forMarch/April, 785 dlrs for May, 753 dlrs for Aug and 0.39 timesNew York Dec for Oct/Dec.    Buyers were the U.S., Argentina, Uruguay and convertiblecurrency areas.    Liquor sales were limited with March/April selling at 2,325and 2,380 dlrs, June/July at 2,375 dlrs and at 1.25 times NewYork July, Aug/Sept at 2,400 dlrs and at 1.25 times New YorkSept and Oct/Dec at 1.25 times New York Dec, Comissaria Smithsaid.    Total Bahia sales are currently estimated at 6.13 mln bagsagainst the 1986/87 crop and 1.06 mln bags against the 1987/88crop.    Final figures for the period to February 28 are expected tobe published by the Brazilian Cocoa Trade Commission aftercarnival which ends midday on February 27. Reuter
INDONESIAN TEA, COCOA EXPORTS SEEN UP, COFFEE DOWN Indonesia's exports of tea and cocoawill continue to rise in calendar 1987 but coffee exports areforecast to dip slightly in 1987/88 (April-March) as thegovernment tries to improve quality, the U.S. Embassy said.    The embassy's annual report on Indonesian agricultureforecast coffee output in 1986/87 would be 5.77 mln bags of 60kilograms each. That is slightly less than the 5.8 mln bagsproduced in 1985/86.    In 1987/88 coffee production is forecast to rise again to5.8 mln bags, but exports to dip to 4.8 mln from around 5.0 mlnin 1986/87. Exports in 1985/86 were 4.67 mln bags.    The embassy report says coffee stocks will rise to 1.3 mlntonnes in 1987/88 from 1.15 mln in 1986/87. It bases this on afall in exports as a result of the "probable" re-introduction ofquotas by the International Coffee Organisation.    Cocoa production and exports are forecast to rise steadilyas the government develops cocoa plantations. Production ofcocoa in Indonesia increased to 32,378 tonnes in calendar 1985from 10,284 tonnes in 1980. It is projected by the governmentto rise to more than 50,000 tonnes by 1988.    Production in 1986 is estimated by the embassy at 35,000tonnes, as against 38,000 tonnes in 1987.    The report forecasts cocoa exports to rise to 35,000 tonnesthis year, from 33,000 tonnes in 1986 and 31,000 in 1985.    The Netherlands is at present the biggest importer ofIndonesian cocoa beans.    The report forecasts that in calendar 1987, Indonesia's CTC(crushed, torn and curled) tea exports will increasesignificantly with the coming on stream of at least eight newCTC processing plants.    Indonesia plans to diversify its tea products by producingmore CTC tea, the main component of tea bags.    Production of black and green teas is forecast in theembassy report to rise to 125,000 tonnes in calendar 1987 from123,000 tonnes in 1986.    Exports of these teas are likely to rise to 95,000 tonnesin 1987 from 85,000 in 1986 and around 90,000 in 1985.    The embassy noted the ministry of trade tightened qualitycontrols on tea in October 1986 in an effort to become morecompetititve in the world market. REUTER
BRAZIL DEBT SEEN PARTNER TO HARD SELL TACTICS Brazil's recent announcement of asuspension in interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of foreigndebt gave the banking system the jitters and confirmed viewsamong many international economists and commodities analyststhat Brazil will continue to flex its trading muscles in 1987.    The developing world's most indebted nation is also itsmost prolific exporter of agricultural commodities such ascoffee and soybeans, and might maximize foreign exchangerevenue by selling hard on world markets, economists said.    "That sounds like a reasonable strategy. But there is noway they can trade their way out of this situation," AldoRoldan, Vice President for International Services at ChaseEconometrics, said.    Roldan told Reuters that Brazil not only had to tackle theproblems of satisfying domestic demand and competing on gluttedworld markets, but also had to work to make its position onforeign exchange markets more profitable.    "Domestic costs have increased (due to inflation) andexporters have not had the same offsetting movement in exchangerates," Roldan said.    The Chase economist also said commodities markets weredepressed and generally did not appear very promising for acountry like Brazil, where pure commodities account for some 50pct of exports and in 1986 had a total value of around 23billion dlrs.    But he added: "They are always pretty aggressive and theyhave good foreign marketing channels."    Analysts said a key factor in Brazilian trade will becoffee, and even without background pressure from foreigncreditors the world's largest producer was expected to hit themarket this year with a vengeance.    Negotiations between International Coffee Organization(ICO) members to re-establish producer export quotas broke upearlier this week with major producers and consumers accusingeach other of intransigence.    "Brazil would not tolerate a change in ICO regulations,which others wanted changed," one senior coffee dealer said.    The dealer, who declined to be named, said Brazil wanted topreserve its market share. At the end of the talks, he saidBrazil hinted it could sell more than anyone else and otherswould suffer.    Brazil will be an aggressive seller under any scenario butas yet there is no sign of unusually heavy Brazilian sales, thedealer said.    "If they do come into the market at this level it will golower and you could breach a dollar, ninety or eighty cents,"he said.    New York coffee futures for May delivery settled 2.29 centslower Thursday at 104.68 cents a lb, while more distantdeliveries fell the six-cent maximum trading limit.    President of the Brazilian Coffee Institute, Jorio Daustertold a press conference in Rio de Janeiro today that Brazil hasno set target for its coffee exports following the breakdown ofthe ICO talks on export quotas.    Many economists and analysts believe soybeans could be thefocus of possible stepped-up Brazilian marketing efforts. "Theywill be more aggressive this year than they have ever been,"according to Richard Loewy, analyst for Prudential-BacheSecurities Inc.    Loewy believes the foreign debt problem, a good crop, plusdifficulties with storage would help motivate selling of theBrazil soybean crop. "Brazilian farmers also need cash flow andthey can't afford to store the crops," he said.    The Chicago soybean complex has been nervous for some timeabout large South American crops developing under near idealconditions towards record yields.    "We are going to see a very rapid decline, earlier thanusual, this year in our (U.S.) exports," Loewy said.    Tommy Eshleman, economist for the American SoybeanAssociation (ASA), said this year's Brazilian soybean harvestcould total 18 mln tonnes, versus 13.7 mln last year.    Marketings will be very aggressive this summer when pricesare usually high relative to the rest of the year due to thevulnerability of the U.S. crop to bad growing weather.    Another incentive to sell might be trade anticipation of areduction in the U.S. government soybean loan rate, offered tofarmers who give crops as collateral, Eshleman said.    He said there has been some uncertainty this year about thesoybean loan rate, which acts as an effective floor for pricesby keeping supplies away from the free market. Farmers canforfeit their beans to the government rather than repay theloan.    "We're getting into a period when they (Brazil) arestarting to harvest and starting to export," Eshleman said. Buthe added it will be a while before U.S. exports fall to below10 mln bushels a week from around 20 mln bushels currently.    Jose Melicias from the research department of DrexelBurnham Lambert said Brazil would be trying to export as muchas it can this year because of its economic situation.    He said the debt situation was a major consideration. "TheBrazilian government also does not have enough money to pay forstorage," he added.    Asked if a return to an inflationary environment in Brazilwould make farmers inclined to hold onto crops, Melicias saidit would not make a big difference.    On other commodity markets, Brazil's selling impact may bemuted no matter its need to generate capital.    Brazil is faced with a poor 1986/87 sugar harvest, whichcould limit exports to the world market, analysts said. Thecountry may have oversold and be unable to honor exportcommitments, and this plus higher domestic demand caused byconsumer price subsidies on ethanol and refined sugar, willgive it little room to stretch exports, they said.    Brazil's other major crop, cocoa, is in its third year ofsurplus. "Cocoa consumption is basically flat and last year itfell, so I don't think they can start throwing out cocoa andfind many more markets for it," one analyst said.    "If they come out as aggressive sellers, the market wouldcollapse and they can't afford to do that," she added. Reuter
GHANA COCOA PURCHASES 1,323 TONNES IN  LATEST WEEK, CUMULATIVE 216,095 TONNES -  The staff of the Commodity FuturesTrading Commission, CFTC, recommended that the regulatoryagency approve the Minneapolis Grain Exchange's application totrade high fructose corn syrup-55, HFCS-55, futures contracts.    The commission is expected to approve the application at ameeting tomorrow.    The proposed contract would provide for the delivery of48,000 lbs, plus or minus two pct, of bulk HFCS-55, a liquidfood and beverage sweetener produced through processed cornstarch by corn refiners.    Under proposed rules, a shipping certificate has a limitedlife, as it expires 30 days following the last day of tradingof the expiring contract month. A premium charge of 14.40 dlrsper contract per day would be assessed under the proposal. Reuter
GHANA COCOA PURCHASES FALL, CUMULATIVE STILL UP The Ghana Cocoa Board said it purchased1,323 tonnes of cocoa in the 21st week, ended February 26, ofthe 1986/87 main crop season, compared with 1,961 tonnes theprevious week and 1,344 tonnes in the 21st week ended March sixof the 1985/86 season, the board said.    Cumulative purchases so far this season stand at 216,095tonnes, still up on the 201,966 tonnes purchased by the 21stweek of last season, the Board said. Reuter
LCE AND IPE ELECT FIRST TRADED OPTIONS MEMBERS The first 23 members have been elected tothe joint traded options facility of the London CommodityExchange (LCE) and the International Petroleum exchange (IPE),the exchanges said in a statement.    More firms have applied and the final tranche will beadmitted on April one and trading is planned to start in earlyJune on the new trading floor on Commodity Quay.    Traded options need a volatile and liquid futures base tosucceed and chairman of the joint formation committee JackPatterson said the existing LCE cocoa, coffee, sugar and IPEgas oil contracts should have no difficulty in providing this. Reuter
JACOBS SUCHARD SEES 100,000 TONNE COCOA SURPLUS Jacobs Suchard AG expects a world cocoasurplus of around 100,000 tonnes in 1987 compared with a104,000 tonne surplus in 1986, Jens Sroka, head of commoditybuying, told a news conference.    The company expects prices to remain at around currentlevels despite the likelihood of agreement on buffer stockrules at the forthcoming London cocoa talks, and believesmarket intervention by the buffer stock manager would stabiliseprices.    Sroka said world coffee prices are expected to remain weakif any international coffee talks fail to produce agreement.    Sroka said stagnating consumption and slight overproductionwill continue to weigh on coffee prices and he forecast acontinued build-up in stocks.    The recent failure of the London coffee talks had surprisedmarket observers.    Unless reason prevails and the major producers return tothe conference table, the world coffee market will remain freeand the consequences for some producers dependant on coffee fortheir foreign exchange earnings would be catastrophic, Srokaadded. REUTER
PESSIMISM MOUNTS OVER BAHIAN TEMPORAO COCOA CROP Pessimism over the effects of aprolonged dry spell on the coming Bahian temporao cocoa crop isrising with trade forecasts generally in the 2.0 mln to 2.5 mlnbag range against 2.5 mln to 3.0 mln a fortnight ago.    Trade sources told Reuters from the state capital ofSalvador that despite scattered rains since mid-February, whichbroke a six week drought, plantations have not picked up ashoped and very little cocoa is expected to be gathered in thefirst three months of the May/September crop.    The sources said arrivals from May through July might onlyreach around 600,000 bags whereas in normal years a figure of1.0 mln to 1.5 mln bags might be expected.    Arrivals from then should start to pick up sharply as podsfrom current flowering are gathered. However, the sources noteda late temporao is always more susceptible to pod rot, whichflourishes if conditions turn cold and humid, and which is morelikely from late July on.    This year's crop is doubly susceptible because poor pricesmean farmers were not encouraged to invest in fertilisers andinsecticides and are also unlikely to treat against pod rot.    A severe attack of pod rot can cause the loss of over500,000 bags in a very short period, one source said.    Because of the increased exposure to pod rot damage,estimates of the final outcome of the temporao are extremelyvulnerable and production could easily drop to below the 2.0mln bag mark if the disease hits.    Although flowering was good following the start of therains, pod setting was not up to expectations, possibly becausethe drought had caused a drop in the insect population whichpollinates flowers, the sources said.    However, reports from farms indicate moisture levels arenow generally back to near normal levels and that currentflowering and pod setting is good, which should result inmature fruit from August through September.    The sources said they expect no break in the harvesting ofbeans between the end of the temporao and the beginning of themain crop, which officially starts on October 1.    "The cut-off date is completely artificial. If things gowell from now on we should see heavy harvesting without a breakfrom August through November or even December," one said.    If predictions of a 2.0 to 2.5 mln bag temporao proveaccurate this would be below the 2.7 mln bag average for thepast 10 years. The last poor temporao was in 1984 whenprolonged drought and later pod rot cut production to 1.79 mlnbags, the lowest since 1974.    Good growing conditions the following year produced atemporao of 3.12 mln bags, just below the 1983 3.17 mln bagrecord, while last year's output, which also suffered somedrought damage, was 2.77 mln bags.    Figures for the coming temporao might be distorted upwardsby the inclusion of undeclared current main crop beans.    The sources said large quantities of beans are believed tohave been undeclared from this year's record total harvest andthey were unsure how much of this would be unregistered by theend of the official crop year on April 30.    Recent official arrivals figures have been swollen by theinclusion of beans which had been delivered previously to portwarehouses but not declared.    Because of the high turnover of beans this year,significant amounts have deteriorated because they were storedtoo long at the back of warehouses. Some of these are expectedto be held for mixing in with early temporao arrivals.    With official arrivals figures for the 1986/87 temporao andmain crops totalling over 6.1 mln bags, and over seven weeksstill to go to the end of the year, the total outturn should beat least a record 6.5 mln bags if all production is declared,the sources said.    This would compare with the previous record set last yearof 6.03 mln.    However, there is no way of telling how many current cropbeans will be declared after the May 1 start of the temporaoand thus the true size of the 1986/87 harvest may never beofficially registered. Reuter
IVORY COAST CONFIRMS PRESENCE AT COCOA TALKS A senior Ivory Coast AgricultureMinistry official confirmed his country's backing for a newinternational cocoa pact and said Ivorian delegates would bepresent at talks on its buffer stock starting this week.    The official told Reuters that Ivorian Agriculture MinisterDenis Bra Kanon would attend the opening of the talks, convenedby the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO), in London onMonday.    While Bra Kanon is due to return home this week for funeralceremonies for a sister of Ivorian President FelixHouphouet-Boigny, scheduled to be held in the country's capitalYamoussoukro between March 19-22, senior Ivorian delegates willbe present throughout the London talks, the official said.    Bra Kanon is chairman of the ICCO Council and rumours thathe or Ivorian delegates might be delayed because of publicmourning in the West African nation helped depress already lowworld cocoa prices Friday.    The official said Ivory Coast continued to support the newpact, which was agreed in principle last year by most of theworld's cocoa exporters and consumers.    He also said Bra Kanon would fulfil his duties as ICCOCouncil chairman during the talks, scheduled to end on March27.    The meeting aims to set rules for the operation of thepact's buffer stock which producers hope will boost a markethit by successive world cocoa surpluses.    Ivory Coast did not participate in the last internationalcocoa pact and its decision to join the new accord has sparkedhopes that it will be more successful in supporting prices. REUTER
(CORRECTED)-IVORY COAST CONFIRMS PRESENCE AT TALKS A senior Ivory Coast AgricultureMinistry official confirmed his country's backing for a newinternational cocoa pact and said Ivorian delegates would bepresent at talks on its buffer stock starting this week.    The official told Reuters that Ivorian Agriculture MinisterDenis Bra Kanon would attend the opening of the talks, convenedby the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO), in London onMonday.    While Bra Kanon is due to return home this week for funeralceremonies for a sister of Ivorian President FelixHouphouet-Boigny, scheduled to be held in the country's capitalYamoussoukro between March 19-22, senior Ivorian delegates willbe present throughout the London talks, the official said.    Bra Kanon is chairman of the ICCO Council and rumours thathe or Ivorian delegates might be delayed because of publicmourning in the West African nation helped depress already lowworld cocoa prices Friday.    The official said Ivory Coast continued to support the newpact, which was agreed in principle last year by most of theworld's cocoa exporters and consumers.    He also said Bra Kanon would fulfil his duties as ICCOCouncil chairman during the talks, scheduled to end on March27.    The meeting aims to set rules for the operation of thepact's buffer stock which producers hope will boost a markethit by successive world cocoa surpluses.    Ivory Coast did not participate in the last internationalcocoa pact and its decision to join the new accord has sparkedhopes that it will be more successful in supporting prices. REUTER
COCOA LATEST FOCUS FOR COMMODITY PACT NEGOTIATORS The credibility of government efforts tostabilise fluctuating commodity prices will again be put to thetest over the next two weeks as countries try to agree on how abuffer stock should operate in the cocoa market, governmentdelegates and trade experts said.    Only two weeks ago, world coffee prices slumped whenInternational Coffee Organization members failed to agree onhow coffee export quotas should be calculated. This week, manyof the same experts gather in the same building here to try toagree on how the cocoa pact reached last summer should work.    The still unresolved legal wrangle surrounding theInternational Tin Council (ITC), which had buffer stock lossesrunning into hundreds of millions of sterling, is also castinga shadow over commodity negotiations.    The ITC's failure has restricted negotiators' ability tocompromise as governments do not want to be involved in pactswith built-in flaws or unlimited liability, but want clearlines drawn between aid and trade.    A more hopeful sign of cooperation was agreement on basicelements of a new International Natural Rubber Agreement inGeneva at the weekend.    Some importing countries insist the International CocoaOrganization (ICCO) buffer stock rules must not be muddied withquota type subclauses which might dictate the type of cocoa tobe bought. One consumer country delegate said this would"distort, not support" the market.    Trade and industry sources blame uncertainty about the ICCOfor destabilising the market as the recent collapse in coffeeprices has made traders acutely aware that commodity pacts canfounder. On Friday this uncertainty helped push London cocoafutures down to eight month lows. The strength of sterling hasalso contributed to the recent slip in prices.    The ICCO daily and average prices on Friday fell below the"must buy" level of 1,600 SDRs a tonne designated in the pact,which came into force at the last ICCO session in January butwithout rules for the operation of the buffer stock.    Consumers and producers could not agree on how it shouldoperate and what discretion it should be given. The agreementlimits it to trading physical cocoa and expressly says itcannot operate on futures markets.    A cash balance of some 250 mln dlrs and a stock of almost100,000 tonnes of cocoa, enough to mount large buying orselling operations, were carried forward from the previousagreement.    Members finance the stock through a 45 dlrs a tonne levy onall cocoa they trade. It has an upper limit of 250,000 tonnes.    The key arguments being faced by the ICCO working group onbuffer stock rules which is meeting today and tomorrow will beover non-member cocoa and differentials the buffer stock shouldpay when trading different types of cocoa. Another workinggroup is scheduled to meet Wednesday to discuss administrativematters, and the full council meets on Thursday.    Producers have so far maintained that buffer stock fundsshould not help mop up surplus cocoa produced in non-membercountries such as Malaysia.    Consumers say when this cocoa is the cheapest the bufferstock should buy it rather than compete with chocolatemanufacturers for premium-priced high quality cocoas.    The argument over buying non-member cocoa is closely linkedto the one over differentials for different qualities.    European industry and trade advisers have suggested as acompromise that the buffer stock have a maximum share that canrepresent non-member cocoa and that it use the London futuresmarket's existing differentials for different qualities.    Currently, good West African cocoa is tendered at par ontothe London market.    Discounts, which are currently under review, range up to 50stg a tonne for Brazilian and Malaysian cocoa.    Consumer delegates said the same arguments in reverse wouldoperate when prices are high - the buffer stock should sell thehighest priced cocoa in most demand, forcing all prices lower.    The January talks were slowed by a split inside theEuropean Community, a key ICCO consumer group, with Francesiding with producers. EC representatives met in closed sessionin Brussels on Friday in an attempt to reach a common groundand, a diplomatic source said, narrowed the range of positionsamong the 12 nations.    The source said the EC will be looking for signs offlexibility on the part of producers in the next few days andwill be able to respond if they are there.    One ICCO delegate describing the producer/consumer splitsaid consumer proposals mean buying more cocoa for less andbacks the concept of the pact which is "meant to support themarket where trade buying is not."    In contrast, he said, producers seem to want to sell theircocoa to the buffer stock rather than consumers.    Other, more technical, issues still outstanding includewhether the buffer stock should buy at a single announced"posted price" as in the previous pact or by announcing it isbuying then accepting offers.    In either case, delegates said, it is accepted thatproducers must be given a clear opportunity to make offers ofcocoa for forward shipment directly to the buffer stock in away that is competitive with spot offers made by dealers. REUTER
COCOA CONSUMERS NARROW GAP ON BUFFER STOCK ISSUE Representatives of cocoa consumingcountries at an International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, councilmeeting here have edged closer to a unified stance on bufferstock rules, delegates said.    While consumers do not yet have a common position, anobserver said after a consumer meeting, "They are much morefluid ... and the tone is positive."    European Community consumers were split on the question ofhow the cocoa buffer stock should be operated when the ICCO metin January to put the new International Cocoa Agreement intoeffect, delegates said.    At the January meeting, France sided with producers on howthe buffer stock should operate, delegates said. That meetingended without agreement on new buffer stock rules.    The EC Commission met in Brussels on Friday to see whetherthe 12 EC cocoa consuming nations could narrow theirdifferences at this month's meeting.    The Commissioners came away from the Friday meeting with aninformal agreement to respond to signs of flexibility amongproducers on the key buffer stock issues, delegates said.    The key issues to be addressed at this council sessionwhich divide ICCO members are whether non-member cocoa shouldbe eligible for buffer stock purchases and what pricedifferentials the buffer stock should pay for different typesof cocoa, delegates said.    A consumer delegate said producers and consumers should beable to compromise on the non-member cocoa question.    A working group comprising delegates from all producing andconsuming member countries met briefly this morning, then brokeup into a producer meeting and an EC meeting, followed by aconsumer meeting.    Producers, who are in favour of the buffer stock buying avariety of grades of cocoa and oppose non-member cocoa beingaccepted, reviewed their position ahead of the working groupmeeting this afternoon.    "We are waiting to see what consumers say," a producerdelegate said. "We hope they will be flexible or it will bedifficult to negotiate."    The ICCO comprises 33 member countries. Non-members include the U.S., a consumer, and Malaysia, anincreasingly important producer. Reuter
ICCO TO EXAMINE BUFFER STOCK PROPOSAL TOMORRROW The International Cocoa Organization,ICCO, council adjourned after presenting divergent producer andconsumer views on buffer stock rules and agreeing to examine adraft compromise proposal on the buffer stock issue tomorrow,delegates said.    ICCO Executive Director Kobena Erbynn will draw up whatsome delegates called a "pre-compromise" and present it to thebuffer stock working group at 1130 hrs GMT Tuesday, they said.    While consumer and producer member nations disagree how abuffer stock should be implemented, both sides reiterated theywere willing to compromise to come to agreement, they said.    "I am optimistic we will be able to come to an agreement --maybe not tomorrow or the next day, but some time later in thesession," a consumer delegate said.    Producers say they want the buffer stock to consist only ofICCO member cocoa, comprise a representative basket of variousgrade cocoas and pay different prices for different grades,delegates said.    Some consumers would rather the buffer stock manager beable to buy non-member cocoa also, and pay a single price forthe buffer stock cocoa without respect to origin.    Consumer members were not unified in their views on how thebuffer stock should operate, with several countries backingdifferent aspects of the producer stance, delegates said.    The semi-annual council meeting is scheduled to run untilMarch 27. Consideration of the buffer stock rules is the mostcontroversial topic on the agenda, delegates said. Reuter
COCOA WORKING GROUP MEETING DELAYED The International Cocoa Organization(ICCO) buffer stock working group meeting set for 1130 GMTtoday was rescheduled for 1430, ICCO delegates said.    The meeting was delayed so a draft compromise proposal onbuffer stock rules could be completed, they said.    ICCO Executive Director Kobena Erbynn was preparing theplan in consultation with other delegates for presentation tothe full working group, they added. REUTER
ICCO GROUP LOOKS AT COCOA BUFFER STOCK RULE PLAN The International Cocoa Organization,ICCO, buffer stock working group began examining a draftproposal for buffer stock rules this afternoon, delegates said.    The plan, presented by ICCO Executive Director KobenaErbynn, represented a compromise between producer, EuropeanCommunity, EC, and other consumer views on how the buffer stockshould operate, they said.    The proposal involved three key principles. First, thebuffer stock manager would be open to offers for cocoa ratherthan using fixed posted prices as previously, delegates said.    Under an offer system, the buffer stock manager would befree to choose cocoas of varying prices, they said.    The second provision was that non-ICCO member cocoa couldcomprise a maximum 10 pct of the buffer stock, while the thirdlaid out a pricing system under which the buffer stock managerwould pay differentials for different grades of cocoa, to beset by a formula, the delegates said.    After the plan was presented, working group delegates metbriefly in smaller groups of producers, EC consumers and allconsumers to look at the proposal. Producers gave no reactionto the scheme and will respond to it when the working groupmeets tomorrow at 1000 GMT, producer delegates said.    Consumer members accepted the proposal as a good base towork from, one consumer delegate said.    Delegates said the proposal was only a starting point fornegotiations on buffer stock rules and subject to change. Reuter
ICCO delegates accept principles of buffer stock compromise as negotiat New Zealand's inflation and interestrates should decline and the balance of payments improvesignificantly in the fiscal year to the end of March 1988, theInstitute of Economic Research (NZIER) said.    The independent institute said in its quarterly March issuethat it was also revising its fiscal 1987 real gross domesticproduct (GDP) forecast to a fall of 0.5 pct against the one pctdrop forecast in December.    Government figures show GDP grew at an annual 1.8 pct inthe quarter to September and 3.4 pct in the June quarter.    The NZIER said the sharp improvement in the June andSeptember quarters was due mainly to a new tax structure andthe introduction of a 10 pct value-added goods and services taxand is not expected to continue in the second half of 1986/87.    The government's tight fiscal position is not expected tochange, it said.    Annual inflation, measured by the consumer price index, isforecast to fall to nine pct by next March from 18.2 pct incalendar 1986, it said.    "Falling inflation is likely to give significant scope forreductions in nominal interest rates; real interest rates arealso expected to ease (albeit slightly) as the balance ofpayments deficit and hence the call on overseas capital, fallsaway," the NZIER said.    Short-term interest rates are forecast to remain between 20and 25 pct until the June quarter, but will decline over thesecond half of 1987/88 to between 16 and 18 pct. Long-termrates are expected to fall to between 14 and 16 pct.    Five year government bond rates are currently 18.40 pct andthe key indicator 30-day bank bills 26.53 pct.    The local dollar is expected to depreciate steadily in theearly part of the coming year and, by next March, reach 57.5 onthe Reserve Bank's trade weighted index, which is based on abasket of currencies. The index now stands at around 66.4.    "A marked improvement in the balance of payments isforecast," the NZIER said. "The current account deficit isexpected to fall from 7.5 pct of GDP in 1985/86 to 4.5 pct in1986/87 and 2.5 pct in 1987/88."    The current account deficit is forecast to shrink to 1.32billion N.Z. Dlrs in 1987/88 from 2.40 billion in 1986/87 and3.33 billion in 1985/86.    The 1987/88 budget deficit is forecast to be 2.8 billiondlrs against an expected 2.9 billion dlrs in 1986/87 and 1.87billion in 1985/86.    This compares with the government's 1986/87 deficit figureof 2.92 billion against an earlier forecast of 2.45 billion.    "Conditions in the coming year are sufficiently subdued tocontribute to marked improvements in both the balance ofpayments and the rate of inflation ...," the NZIER said.    "Overall, these are significant gains for the New Zealandeconomy and, if they continue to be improved upon, bode wellfor future prospects." REUTER
ICCO MEMBERS ACCEPT BUFFER STOCK PRINCIPLES International Cocoa Organization (ICCO)producers and consumers accepted the principles of a compromiseproposal on buffer stock rules as a basis for furthernegotiation, delegates said.    The buffer stock working group then asked ICCO ExecutiveDirector Kobena Erbynn, who wrote up the draft compromise, toflesh out details of the principles with the assistance of arepresentative group of delegates, they said.    The working group broke up for the day, into a smallergroup of five producers and five consumers to discussadministrative rules and into the group headed by Erbynn tohammer out buffer stock rules details, delegates said.    Delegates said many differences of opinion still have to beironed out. "Whenever we start getting into details the cloudsgather," one delegate said.    Erbynn is likely to present fleshed out details of thebuffer stock rules proposal to the working group earlytomorrow, delegates said.    The principles of the draft proposal included establishingan offer system for buffer stock purchases rather than a postedprice system, a limit to the amount of non-ICCO member cocoathat can be bought, and differentials to be paid for differentvarieties of cocoa comprising the buffer stock, delegates said. REUTER
IVORY COAST MINISTER DELAYED FOR COCOA TALKS Ivorian Agriculture Minister Denis BraKanon, chairman of the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO)council, will not be able to open the council session heretomorrow, an Ivorian ICCO delegate told Reuters.    He will arrive sometime later during the meetings here, thedelegate said. The council session will be chaired instead byICCO vice chairman Sir Denis Henry, the delegate from Grenada,ICCO officials said.    Ivorian officials last week said Bra Kanon was due toreturn home for funeral ceremonies for a sister of IvorianPresident Felix Houphouet-Boigny March 19-22. REUTER
N.Y. COCOA TRADERS STILL CAUTIOUS ON ICCO New York cocoa traders reacted withcaution to today's developments at the International CocoaOrganization talks in London, saying there is still time fornegotiations to break down.    "I would be extremely cautious to go either long or shortat this point," said Jack Ward, president of the cocoa tradingfirm Barretto Peat. "If and when a final position comes out (ofthe ICCO talks) one will still have time to put on positions.The risk at the moment is not commensurate with the possiblegain."    ICCO producer and consumer delegates this morning acceptedthe outlines of a compromise proposal on buffer stock rules asa basis for further negotiation. A smaller group ofrepresentatives is now charged with fleshing out the details.    "Market sentiment has reflected optimism, I would't put itany stronger than that," Ward said.    "It seems to put them slightly closer to an agreement...but one shouldn't forget how much they have to negotiate," saidanother trader of today's developments.    Many dealers were sidelined coming into the negotiationsand have remained so, traders said.    "The dealers have got historically small positions inoutright terms," one trader said.    Speculators have gone net long "but only slightly so," headded.    The recent price strength -- gains of about 52 dlrs thelast two days -- has been due in large part to sterling's rallyagainst the dollar and in the process has attracted a measureof origin selling, traders said. Reuter
COCOA DELEGATES OPTIMISTIC ON BUFFER STOCK RULES Hopes mounted for an agreement on cocoabuffer stock rules at an International Cocoa Organization,ICCO, council meeting which opened here today, delegates said.    Both producer and consumer ICCO members said after theopening session that prospects for an agreement on the cocoamarket support mechanism were improving.    "The chances are very good as of now of getting buffer stockrules by the end of next week," Ghanaian delegate and producerspokesman Mama Mohammed told journalists.    Consumer spokesman Peter Baron called the tone of thenegotiations "optimistic and realistic."    The ICCO council failed to agree on buffer stock rules whena new International Cocoa Agreement came into force in January,with deep differences of opinion precluding serious discussionson the matter at that time. The existing buffer stock of about100,000 tonnes of cocoa was frozen, with a funds balance of 250mln dlrs.    The ICCO made buffer stock rules negotiations a priority atthis semi-annual council meeting in order to stop the slide inworld cocoa prices.    Consumers and producers agreed yesterday on the principlesas a basis for negotiations.    The council broke for lunch, and reconvenes at 1500 hrs. Aworking group which has been meeting since Monday will tacklethe buffer stock rules issue again at 1600 hrs, when ICCOexecutive director Kobena Erbynn presents a fleshed-out versionof a draft proposal he prepared earlier this week, delegatessaid.    Mohammed said delegates will have a much clearer indicationof prospects for an accord after details of the rules areelaborated by Erbynn, and after producers and consumers meetseparately later today to examine the scheme.    The draft proposal included three principles: a limit tonon- member cocoa comprising the buffer stock, an offer systemfor buying buffer stock cocoa, and price differentials to bepaid for various cocoas making up the buffer stock, delegatessaid.    During the morning council session, the Ivory Coastdelegation gave "an open minded statement" that it is willing towork out a buffer stock rules solution which could come intoeffect as soon as possible, Baron said.    Ivorian Agriculture Minister Denis Bra Kanon, chairman ofthe ICCO council, was now expected to arrive in London Mondayto attend the talks, Baron said. Vice chairman Sir Denis Henryof Grenada chaired the meeting in his place.    Soviet and East German delegates did not attend the councilsession because of a conflicting International SugarOrganization meeting today, but could arrive this afternoon,delegates said. Reuter
ICCO TO EXAMINE BUFFER STOCK DETAILS TOMORROW The International Cocoa Council, ICCO,adjourned for the day after a detailed proposal on buffer stockrules was distributed and executive committee officials wereelected, delegates said.    Producers, EC consumers and all consumers are scheduled tohold separate meetings tomorrow to review the proposal, writtenby ICCO executive director Kobena Erbynn, they said.    The buffer stock working group is to meet again on rulesMonday morning, and the full council is to reconvene Tuesday,delegates said.    Heinz Hofer of Switzerland was elected executive committeechairman and Mette Mogstad of Norway vice chairman, they added. Reuter
ICCO PUTS 1986/87 WORLD COCOA SURPLUS  94,000 TONNES VS 118,000 IN 1985/86 - D A joint venture controlled by Dallasinvestor Bradbury Dyer said it had acquired 377,000 shares, or9.9 pct, of the common stock of Munford Inc.    In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,the concern, which comprises Paragon Associates and ParagonAssociates II, said it bought the stake for 7,659,000 dlrs andmay buy more shares.    Paragon said it bought the shares for investment purposes. Reuter
GHANA COCOA PURCHASES STILL AHEAD OF LAST YEAR The Ghana Cocoa Board said it purchased456 tonnes of cocoa in the 23rd week, ended March 12, of the1986/87 main crop season, compared with 684 tonnes the previousweek and 784 tonnes in the 23rd week ended March 20 of the1985/86 season.    Cumulative purchases so far this season stand at 217,235tonnes, ahead of the 203,884 tonnes purchased by the 23rd weekof last season, the board said. Reuter
COCOA BUFFER STOCK ACCORD CLOSER, DELEGATES SAY The International Cocoa Organization(ICCO) moved closer to an agreement on buffer stock rules, withmany delegates saying they expect to reach an accord by Friday.    "Everyone is convinced the buffer stock rules should be inplace by Friday so the buffer stock can be put into operationMonday," a consumer delegate said. "The atmosphere is excellent."    Other delegates said the buffer stock might not beoperational by Monday but could be in place by around April 1,if the rules are agreed by Friday.    A detailed package on how the buffer stock manager will buyand sell cocoa was presented to a buffer stock working groupthis afternoon -- a big step toward a "very interesting stage ofnegotiations," delegates said.    The package, based on negotiating principles informallyagreed by delegates, has been forged bit by bit duringfortnight-long meetings by ICCO Executive Director KobenaErbynn and a small group of other delegates.    Producers, the European Community (EC) and consumers arescheduled to consider the paper separately and then jointlytomorrow.    Under the proposal, the buffer stock manager would buycocoa from origins or the second-hand market on an offersystem. He would alert the market via news agencies as to whenhe wanted to buy cocoa and include shipment details and tonnagedesired, delegates said.    The manager would buy cocoa on a competitive basis, ratherthan choosing the cheapest cocoa as before, giving preferenceto ICCO member-country exporters. Standard price differentialswould be fixed for each origin, similar to golf handicaps, todetermine the relative competitiveness of offers of variouscocoas from different origins, they said.    The differentials could be reviewed at the request of amember country or recommendation of the buffer stock manager,the delegates said. Revision would be decided by a majorityvote of the ICCO council.    Buffer stock purchases from non-ICCO member countries wouldnot be allowed to exceed 10 pct of the total buffer stock, theysaid.    The purchases would be limited to 5,000 tonnes of cocoa perday and 20,000 tonnes per week, and could be bought in nearby,intermediate and forward positions, they added.    One of the underlying ideas of the rules package is"transparency," meaning virtually all the buffer stock manager'smarket activities will be public and he will have as littlediscretion as possible, delegates said.    After the tin market collapse in 1985, when theInternational Tin Council buffer stock ran out of funds, cocoadelegates are anxious to install safeguards in the cocoa marketmechanism, they said.     Earnest debate on the buffer stock proposal is expected tobegin late tomorrow, as delegations feel the pressure of theapproaching Friday deadline, when the ICCO meeting is due toadjourn, delegates said.    The ICCO failed to agree buffer stock rules in January whenthe new International Cocoa Agreement came into force. Theexisting buffer stock of 100,000 tonnes of cocoa was frozen inplace with its bank balance of 250 mln dlrs -- both untouchableuntil rules are agreed.     Though the current semi-annual council meeting is not thelast chance for delegates to cement buffer stock rules,producers are keen to get the wheels of the market-stabilizingmechanism turning to stem the decline in world prices,delegates said. Reuter
HAITI, CZECHOSLOVAKIA JOIN COCOA ORGANIZATION Haiti and Czechoslovakia have joined theInternational Cocoa Organization (ICCO), bringing membership inthe United Nations charter body to 18 importing countries and17 exporters, ICCO officials said.    Haiti has provisionally applied to the ICCO as an exportingmember, and accounts for 0.92 pct of world cocoa exports, theysaid. Czechoslovakia joined as an importer. Reuter
COCOA TALKS SLOW AT CRUCIAL STAGE - DELEGATES International Cocoa Organization (ICCO)talks on buffer stock rules have slowed during a crucial phaseof negotiations, delegates said, but they remained confidentabout prospects for reaching agreement by Friday.    Cocoa producers, European Community (EC) consumers and allconsumers separately reviewed technical details of a bufferstock rules package distributed yesterday.    The buffer stock working group of consumers and producerswas set to meet later today to debate the proposal jointly forthe first time, they said.    Delegates said major sticking points were likely to be theamount of non-member cocoa allowed to be bought for the bufferstock, and the fixed price differentials at which differentorigin cocoas will be offered to the buffer stock manager.    Producers would prefer that non-member cocoa not beincluded in the buffer stock because, if it is, countries suchas Malaysia benefit from the cocoa agreement without joiningit, the delegates said. Reuter
COCOA COUNCIL CHAIRMAN SEEKS BUFFER COMPROMISE International Cocoa Organization, ICCO,Council chairman, Denis Bra Kanon, said he will attempt toreach a compromise on buffer stock rules for the InternationalCocoa Agreement.    Bra Kanon called for bilateral consultations amongproducers and consumers Thursday morning to resolve outstandingdifferences on how much non-member cocoa the buffer stock canpurchase and differentials to be fixed for different origincocoa, consumer delegates told reporters.    Bra Kanon is expected to meet with about eight delegationsindividually in attempt to iron out remaining problems.    Producers and consumers indicated support "in principle" forthe draft buffer stock rules package formulated over the pastweek by a small working group, consumer delegates said.    Despite remaining differences delegates remained confidenta buffer stock accord would be agreed to by Friday when thecouncil session ends, but certain technical points need furtherclarification, the delegates said.    Certain consumers are concerned that differentials includedin the draft buffer stock package are out of line with marketrealities, consumer delegates said.    Unless these are modified there are fears it would promotepurchases of quality cocoas, such as Ghana origin, which arenormally required by manufacturers, they said.    Restrictions on buffer stock purchases of non-member cocoamight lead to a supply overhang in Malaysian cocoa, which woulddepress prices, they added. Reuter
MADAGASCAR COCOA PRODUCTION ESTIMATED HIGHER Madagascar's cocoa production isestimated 13 pct higher this year at 2,720 tonnes, up from2,400 in 1986, Agriculture Ministry officials said.    This improvement reflects the government's efforts over thelast seven years to extend existing cocoa plantations and plantnew higher yielding varieties, particularly at the northern tipof the island, they said.    Last year, Madagascar exported 2,189 tonnes of high qualitycocoa, up from 1,624 in 1985, the Trade Ministry said.    This year's exports are estimated at 2,400 tonnes. Reuter
COCOA COUNCIL HEAD TO PRESENT BUFFER COMPROMISE International Cocoa Organization, ICCO,council chairman Denis Bra Kanon will present a compromiseproposal on buffer stock rules to producer and consumerdelegates either later today or tomorrow morning, delegatessaid.    Bra Kanon held private bilateral consultations with majorproducers and consumers this morning to resolve outstandingdifferences, mostly on the issues of how much non-member cocoathe buffer stock can purchase and price differentials fordifferent varieties.    Delegates were fairly confident the differences could beworked out in time to reach agreement tomorrow.    Some consuming member nations, including Britain andBelgium, favour the buffer stock buying more than 10 pctnon-member cocoa, delegates have said.    The consumers argue that buying cheaper, lower qualitynon-member cocoas, particularly Malaysian, will mosteffectively support prices because that low quality cocoa iscurrently pressuring the market.    Producers, meanwhile, say non-member cocoa should make upat most a very small percentage of the buffer. They sayMalaysia should not be able to benefit from the ICCO unless itis a member, and if the buffer stock bought Malaysian cocoaMalaysia would have no incentive to join, delegates said.    As to differentials, Ghana apparently wanted a higherdifferential for its cocoa than is outlined in the most recentproposal, so it would have a better chance of having its cocoabought for the buffer stock, producer delegates said.    Some consumers wanted differentials to be adjusted in a waythat would not promote buffer stock purchases of the moreexpensive cocoas, such as Ghanaian and Brazilian, they said.    Other technical points need to be sorted out, includinglimits on how much cocoa the buffer stock manager can buy innearby, intermediate and forward positions and the consequenteffect on prices in the various deliveries, delegates said. Reuter
COFFEE, SUGAR AND COCOA EXCHANGE NAMES CHAIRMAN The New York Coffee, Sugar and CocoaExchange (CSCE) elected former first vice chairman GeraldClancy to a two-year term as chairman of the board of managers,replacing previous chairman Howard Katz.    Katz, chairman since 1985, will remain a board member.    Clancy currently serves on the Exchange board of managersas chairman of its appeals, executive, pension and politicalaction committees.    The CSCE also elected Charles Nastro, executive vicepresident of Shearson Lehman Bros, as first vice chairman.Anthony Maccia, vice president of Woodhouse, Drake and Carey,was named second vice chairman, and Clifford Evans, presidentof Demico Futures, was elected treasurer. Reuter
COCOA CHAIRMAN WORKS TOWARDS BUFFER COMPROMISE International Cocoa Organization's,ICCO, council chairman Denis Bra Kanon continued work towards acompromise plan on how the ICCO buffer stock should buy cocoa,consumer delegates said.    Consumer delegates said Bra Kanon had not formallypresented the compromise plan to producers and consumers, andit was unlikely he would do so before Friday, they said.    There was widespread confidence a result on the outstandingitems could be reached by Friday, when the council session isdue to end, consumers said.    Bra Kanon completed bilateral consultations with severaldelegations today on the main sticking points in the draftbuffer stock rules package, they said.    Certain delegations wanted further discussion on the amountof non-member cocoa the buffer stock will be permitted to buy,differentials for different origin cocoas and limits on bufferstock purchases of nearby, and forward material, the delegatessaid.    The buffer stock working group finalized the remainingbuffer stock rules, with only minor modifications to theoriginal draft buffer stock package produced last week, thedelegates said.    The ICCO council is due to elect a new executive directorwhen it reconvenes Friday, producer delegates said.    Producers intend to present a single candidate for thepost, and this is most likely to be Edouard Kouame from IvoryCoast, they said.    Earlier, the existing executive director, Kobena Erbynnfrom Ghana, was expected to re-nominated, but he is now likelyto withdraw, the delegates said.    The executive committee is due to meet Friday at 1100 GMT,with the council unlikely to reconvene until late Friday,consumers said. Reuter
COCOA BUFFER STOCK COMPROMISE GAINING ACCEPTANCE A final compromise proposal on cocoabuffer stock rules presented by International CocoaOrganization, ICCO, council chairman Denis Bra Kanon is swiftlygaining acceptance by consumer and producer members, delegatessaid.    "We are close, nearer than ever to accepting it, but westill have some work to do," producer spokesman Mama Mohammed ofGhana told Reuters after a producers' meeting.    European Community, EC, delegates said EC consumersaccepted the package in a morning meeting and predicted "noproblems" in getting full consumer acceptance.    Delegates on both sides are keen to come to some agreementtoday, the last day of the fortnight-long council meeting, theysaid.    The compromise requires that buffer stock purchases fromnon-ICCO member countries cannot exceed 15 pct of total bufferstock purchases, delegates said. The non-member cocoa issue hasbeen among the most contentious in the rules negotiations.    The 15 pct figure, up five percentage points from earlierproposals, represents a concession to consumers, delegatessaid. They have demanded a larger allowance for non-membercocoa in the buffer stock than producers have wanted.    Another problem area, delegates said, was the question ofprice differentials for different origins of cocoa bought intothe buffer stock, by which the buffer stock manager couldfairly compare relative prices of different cocoas offered tohim.    The compromise narrowed the range of differentials betweenthe origins from what previous proposals had detailed -- a movesome delegates described as "just fiddling."    But the adjustments may prove significant enough to appeasesome countries that were not satisfied with the originalproposed differentials assigned to them, delegates said.    The compromise also stated buffer stock purchases on anyday would be limited to 40 pct each in nearby, intermediate orforward positions, delegates said.    If the compromise is accepted by the council, mostconsumers and producers want buffer stock rules to take effectnext week, or as soon as practically possible.    The full council is scheduled to meet around 1500 GMT todiscuss the compromise, and could agree on it then if allparties are satisfied, they said. Consumers are due to meetbefore the council. Reuter
COCOA CONSUMERS ACCEPT COMPROMISE BUFFER PLAN Consumer members of the InternationalCocoa Organization, ICCO, accepted a final buffer stock rulescompromise, "on the condition that producers also agree,"consumer spokesman Peter Baron said.    The full council was meeting at 1530 GMT to discuss thecompromise, which was put together yesterday by ICCO chairmanDenis Bra Kanon.    Consumer delegates said they were optimistic the councilcould reach agreement on the rules fairly quickly. Reuter
Cocoa Council agrees new buffer stock  rules - d Mars Store Inc said itexpects to report a loss of about 800,000 dlrs for the fourthquarter and about 1.1 mln dlrs for the fiscal year endedJanuary 31.    As a result of the loss, the company said it has decided todiscontinue the operations of its Big Value Outlets division,which will result in a yet undisclosed one time charge againstearnings for the year.    The estimated 1.1 mln dlrs year loss or about 50 cts ashare, compares with earnings of 871,000 dlrs or 42 cts a sharerecorded last year.    "The fourth quarter loss was affected by an abnormally highinventory shrinkage, lower than planned sales and highermarkdowns related to increased promotional activity, all ofwhich reduced fourth quarter gross margins," the company said.    In order to concentrate on the company's core business, theoperation of discount and promotional department stores, Marssaid, it has decided to close the Big Value division. Reuter
COCOA BUFFER STOCK RULES TO TAKE EFFECT  IMMEDIATELY - D C.O.M.B Inc commenced trading put andcall options on the American Stock Exchange, according to theExchange.    The company's options will trade with initial expirationmonths of April, May, July and October, with position andexercise limits at 5,500 contracts on the same side of themarket, according to the Exchange. Reuter
ICCO COUNCIL AGREES COCOA BUFFER STOCK RULES The International Cocoa Organization(ICCO) Council reached agreement on rules to govern its bufferstock, the device it uses to keep cocoa off the market tostabilise prices, ICCO delegates said.    The date on which the new rules will take effect has notbeen decided but delegates said they expected them to come intoforce early next week, after which the buffer stock manager canbegin buying or selling cocoa.    Since prices are below the "may-buy" level of 1,655 SpecialDrawing Rights a tonne set in the cocoa pact, the manager islikely to buy cocoa sooon to support the market, they said.    Delegates and traders said they expected the manager,Juergen Plambeck, to intervene in the market within three weeksof the pact coming into force.    The rules permit him to buy and sell cocoa from origins orthe second hand market on an offer system, not by means of aposted price as in the previous cocoa accord.    The cocoa will be priced according to a fixed set ofdifferentials, ranging from 137 stg for most expensive Ghanacocoa to zero for Malaysian cocoa.    Purchases from non-members, such as Malaysia, will belimited to 15 pct of the total stock and those on any one dayshould be limited to 40 pct each in nearby, intermediate andforward positions.    The council meeting, which is expected to conclude twoweeks of sessions involving various working groups and thecouncil itself, was continuing, the delegates said.    The current cocoa agreement came into force on January 20during a previous meeting of the council which was unable toagree on the rules to implement buffer stock operations. REUTER
COCOA BUFFER STOCK RULES EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY The cocoa buffer stock rules justdecided by the International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, councilwill take effect immediately, delegates said.    That means the buffer stock manager is likely to beginbuying cocoa within two or three weeks, after organizingcommunication systems and assessing the market, they said. Reuter
COCOA BUFFER DIFFERENTIALS DETAILED The International Cocoa Organization(ICCO) council agreed standard price differentials fordifferent origin cocoas to form part of the buffer stock buyingand selling procedure, consumer delegates said.    The buffer stock manager will accept offers for differentorigin cocoas according to a sliding scale of pricedifferentials, under which Ghana cocoa will be pegged at a 137stg premium to Malaysian.    Thus, if the buffer stock manager was buying cocoa based ona Malaysian price of 1,200 stg a tonne, he would accept Ghanaoffers up to 1,337 stg.    Differentials were fixed as follows, Country       Differential stg/tonne Malaysia           0 Brazil            55 Ivory Coast       67 Cameroun          77 Nigeria          120 Togo             130 Ghana            137    Nigeria's differential is on "landed weight" terms. Shippingweight terms will be accepted at a 15 stg discount to thisrate. Reuter
IVORIAN CHOSEN COCOA COUNCIL EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Edouard Kouame, Ivorian delegate to theInternational Cocoa Organization (ICCO), was chosen ExecutiveDirector of the ICCO, effective October 1, ICCO officials said.    Kouame will succeed Dr. Kobena Erbynn of Ghana in the post. REUTER
JAPAN JOINING INTERNATIONAL COCOA AGREEMENT Japan is in the process of joining theInternational Cocoa Organisation (ICCO), which will bring thenumber of members in the body to 36, ICCO officials said.    Japan is completing constitutional procedures necessary toits accession to the ICCO and is expected to become animporting member in three to four months, they said. REUTER
EC COMMISSIONER WELCOMES COCOA ACCORD The new International Cocoa Agreementshould lead to a stabilisation of prices, both benefittingproducer countries and promoting an equilibrium ininternational economic relations, European CommunityDevelopment Commissioner Lorenzo Natali said.    He said in a statement welcoming the agreement on bufferstock rules reached last week in London that it resulted inlarge part from initiatives taken by the EC Commission afterconsumers and producers had reached deadlock in initialnegotiations. REUTER
COCOA DEAL SEEN POSITIVE, BUT NO PRICE GUARANTEE The buffer stock rules agreement reachedon Friday by the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) is animprovement on previous arrangements but the price-supportmechanism is unlikely to do more than stem the decline in cocoaprices, many ICCO delegates and trade sources said.    The accord was reached between producers and consumers ofthe 35-member ICCO council after two weeks of talks.    European chocolate manufacturers and delegates said theaccord may boost cocoa prices immediately, but world surplusesoverhanging the market will pull prices down again before long.    "If the buffer stock operation is successful, I doubt itwill do anything more than stop the price from falling further,and it will have no relevance at all to retail chocolateprices," a European dealer said.    And if the buffer stock manager delays too long in buying,or is not seen to be using his purchasing power when the marketis relying on him to do so, the bearish trade reaction couldpressure prices dramatically, dealers said.    The buffer stock is the market-regulating tool of the ICCO,into which cocoa can be bought or from which it can be sold tomanoeuvre prices into a pre-set stabilization range.    A new cocoa agreement came into force in January butdelegates could not agree buffer stock rules at that time.    The new rules take effect immediately. The buffer stockmanager is expected to begin buying cocoa within the next threeweeks, after organizing communications with cocoa producingcountries and assessing the market, since prices are below the"must-buy" level of 1,600 Special Drawing Rights per tonnespecified in the agreement, the sources said.    The buffer stock theoretically has funds to buy a maximum100,000 tonnes within a five week period, but its approach willbe more cautious, buffer stock manager Juergen Plambeck said.    The buffer stock has around 250 mln dlrs in funds and abuying limit of 250,000 tonnes of cocoa, 100,000 tonnes ofwhich are already in the buffer stock.    ICCO council chairman and Ivorian Agriculture MinisterDenis Bra Kanon said the new rules have a good chance ofstabilizing prices. Ivory Coast is the world's largest cocoaproducer.    "We have established rules which will permit us to withdrawimmediately the surplus of cocoa on the world market," Bra Kanontold reporters after the council adjourned. Bra Kanon reckonedthe world cocoa surplus could be less than half the 94,000tonnes estimated by the ICCO statistics committee.    However, some producer and consumer members emerged fromthe final ICCO council meeting with reservations about thepact.    Ghana, whose high-quality cocoa is the world's mostexpensive and provides 60 pct of the country's export earnings,made a formal protest to the council about the pricedifferentials assigned to its cocoa, saying they were too highfor Ghanaian cocoa to be bought for the buffer stock.    According to consumer spokesman Peter Baron of WestGermany, "Consumers weren't perfectly happy with the bufferstock rules. We reached a very sensitive compromise...Therewere no real winners or losers."    Some European Community delegates were not satisfied thatimportant points were fully discussed during the talks, and asa result, doubted the rules can deal with world surpluses aseffectively as they could have, delegates said.    Under the new rules, the buffer stock manager would seekoffers of different origin cocoas, using price differentials toreflect different qualities. Non-ICCO member cocoa can compriseup to 15 pct of the total buffer stock.    London cocoa prices traded today around 1,300 stg pertonne, down from around 1,450 stg in January 1987 and 1,750 stgin January 1986.    A cocoa withholding scheme can take a further 120,000tonnes of cocoa off the market if a special council sessiondecides market conditions warrant it, according to theagreement.    The withholding scheme can only be used if prices fallbelow the 1,600 SDR lower intervention price for more than fivedays and if 80 pct of the maximum buffer stock capacity hasbeen filled, or if the buffer stock runs low on funds, it says.    The ICCO will discuss withholding scheme rules at anexecutive committee meeting on June 9/12, ICCO officials said. REUTER
COMMODITY PACTS MORE ORIENTED TOWARDS MARKET Consuming countries, chastened by thecollapse of International Tin Council (ITC) price supportoperations in 1985, are insisting more than ever before thatcommodity pacts reflect the reality of the markets they areserving, a Reuter survey showed.    They want price ranges to be more responsive to markettrends - to avoid overstimulating output and straining theaccords' support operations - and intervention rules that avoidthe risk of exports by non-members undermining the pacts.Consumers and producers, mindful of ITC buffer stock losses,have also sought strict conditions for buffer operations.    Importers and some key exporting countries have shunned ageneralised approach to commodity price stabilisation andprefer to assess each commodity case by case, the surveyshowed.    The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) last week setprecise limits on what the Buffer Stock Manager (BSM) could dounder the new agreement. It imposed daily and weekly purchaselimits, prohibited the BSM from operating on futures marketsand stipulated, after consumer insistence, that up to 15 pct oftotal buffer stock purchases could be of non-member cocoa. Thiswill help prevent lower quality cocoa from Malaysia, theworld's fourth largest producer, undermining the market.    The cocoa pact establishes precise differentials the BufferStock Manager must use when purchasing varying grades.    A new International Natural Rubber Agreement (INRA) wasadopted earlier this month in Geneva. Importing and exportingcountries agreed several changes to make the reference pricemore responsive to market trends and they eliminated provisionsunder which the buffer stock could borrow from banks to financeoperations. Direct cash contributions from members will fundbuffer stock purchases. Bank financing was a particular featureof the failed ITC buffer stock which suffered losses runninginto hundreds of millions of sterling. Legal wrangles continue.    Recent International Coffee Organization (ICO) negotiationsin London exemplified the degree to which consumers insist thatagreements reflect market reality, commodity analysts said.    Consumers and a small group of producers argued that"objective criteria" should be used to define export quotashares, which would have meant a reduction in the share ofBrazil, the world's leading producer. Brazil wanted to maintainits previous quota share of 30 pct. The talks broke down and,although an ICO executive board meeting starts in London today,delegates and trade sources see chances of any near termnegotiations on export quota distribution as remote.    International agreements exist for sugar and wheat. Thesedo not have any economic clauses but provide a forum fordiscussions on possible future economic agreements, collectstatistics and draw up market analyses. Analysts saiddifferences between sugar exporting countries have held up anyprogress towards an accord with economic teeth, while sheercompetition between major exporters amid a world grain glutmilitate against any pact with economic provisions for wheat.    An alternative focus for commodity discussions areinternational study groups, made up of governments with advicefrom industry, such as those for lead and zinc and rubber.    The U.N. Common fund for commodities, with a planneddirectly contributed capital of 470 mln dlrs, has failed tobecome operational because neither the U.S. Nor the SovietUnion has ratified it. U.S. Officials in Washington said theU.S. Doubts the fund would be able to fulfil its objectives,citing the lack of widespread support.    U.S. Officials in Washington and Malaysian officials inKuala Lumpur expressed a policy of looking at each commoditypact case by case. U.S. Officials said it has been willing tostudy individual cases for economically sound, market-orientedcommodity accords balancing producer and consumer interests.    "We see little to be gained by attempting to increase theprice of a commodity whose long-term trend is downward,"official Administration policy states. The U.S. Currentlybelongs to only two international commodity agreements thathave economic clauses - the International Coffee Agreement(ICA) and INRA - but it is also a member of the sugar and wheatpacts.    The U.S. Did not join the International Cocoa Agreementbecause it considered its proposed price ranges unrealistic andnot designed to protect the interests of consuming countries,the State Department said. U.S. Officials singled out the INRAas the one commodity agreement that seems to be working.    U.S. Negotiators were successful in getting other membersof the pact to agree that the price review and adjustmentmechanism of the rubber agreement would accurately reflectmarket trends and also to continue the accord as a marketoriented agreement, U.S. Officials said.    Canadian officials in Ottawa also said they haveconsistently tried to look at membership of commodity pacts onthe merits of each case. Malaysian Primary Industries MinisterLim Keng Yaik told Reuters in Kuala Lumpur his country, theworld's top producer of rubber, tin and palm oil, decides itsparticipation in international commodity pacts case by case.    Malaysia is a member of the Association of Tin ProducingCountries (ATPC) which produce 65 pct of world tin. The ATPClaunched a plan to limit member tin exports to 96,000 tonnesfor a year from March to cut the tin surplus to 50,000 from70,000.    Economist in the West German Ministry of Agriculture anddelegate to cocoa, wheat and sugar agreements Peter Baron toldReuters in London, "Agreements with economic clauses tostabilise prices could function if fixed price ranges wereclose to market reality, if there was full participation byproducers and consumers, and if participants were prepared totake their obligations in the framework of the agreementseriously."    But Baron added, "No real sanctions are available for acountry that doesn't stick to its obligations...The Germanapproach is sceptical. We don't think agreements are the bestinstrument to help developing countries. They were never meantto be a vehicle for the transfer of resources and that is howdeveloping countries often interpret them."    Traditionally Britain has always been supportive ofcommodity agreements, reflecting its strong links with ThirdWorld producing countries. But recently demands for morestringent and justifiable pacts with emphasis placed on theneed for "intellectual honesty" and "objective criteria" havegrown.    British officials stress the need for commodity pacts to bea two way partnership in trade rather than a disguise for aid.    It is now seen as essential that any pacts involving directmarket participation through a buffer stock have a high degreeof transparency and do not contain the risk of open-endedborrowing that occurred in the tin pact, they said. U.K.Delegates talk of stabilisation and the need for prices toreflect changes in market structure and price trends ratherthan dictate what prices should be.    A Foreign Ministry official in Tokyo said Japan urges pricerealism in commodity pacts, adding high prices inflate supply.    A government spokesman in Paris said France is favourableto commodity pacts. France, a large consumer and producer ofsugar, favours a sugar pact as long as it reflects the realmarket situation, particularly regarding stocks.    Indonesia's Foreign Minister Mochtar Kusumaatmadja toldReuters in Jakarta: "These agreements can work as long as theproblems are cyclical..But it's another matter when there arestructural problems..But we are still committed to commodityagreements as an act of faith." Nicaraguan External TradeMinister Alejandro Martinez Cuenca said in London producerscannot afford not to give their backing to commodityagreements.    "The political will is not there on the part of someconsumers to make agreements work," Martinez Cuenca said.    The head of the economics department in the BrazilianForeign Ministry, Sebastiao do Rego Barros, told Reuters anagreement can be successful if it keeps a link with marketreality. If you have an agreement such as coffee with a systemof quotas, with a link between prices practised inside the pactand actual market prices, it can work. UNCTAD spokesman GrahamShanley said consuming countries realise steady export earningsenhance developing countries' ability to service debt and meangreater demand for industrialised nations' capital goods. REUTER
CSCE RESTRUCTURES COFFEE FUTURES DAILY LIMITS The Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchangehas expanded the normal daily trading limit in Coffee "C"contracts to 6.0 cents a lb, from the previous 4.0 cents,effective today, the CSCE said.    The new daily limits apply to all but the two nearbypositions, currently May and July, which trade without limits.    In addition, the 6.0 cent limit can be increased to 9.0cents a lb if the first two limited months both make limitmoves in the same direction for two consecutive sessions,according to the CSCE announcement.    Before the rule change today, the CSCE required two days oflimit moves in the first three restricted contracts beforeexpanding the daily trading limit.    Under new guidelines, if the first two restricteddeliveries move the 6.0 cent limit for two days the Exchangewill expand the limit. The expanded 9.0 cent limit will remainin effect until the settling prices on both of the first twolimited months has not moved by more than the normal 6.0 centlimit for other contracts in two successive trading sessions,the CSCE said. Reuter
CSCE ALTERS RULES ON TRADING LIMITS The Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchangeamended regulations governing expanded trading limits oncoffee, cocoa and sugar contracts to provide uniformity.    Effective today, the exchange will permit normal dailyprice limits in those commodities to expand whenever the firsttwo limited contract months move the limit in the samedirection for two consecutive sessions.    The normal daily limits will be reinstated once the firsttwo limited deliveries close by less than the normal limit fortwo successive trading days.    Previously exchange rules required the first three limitedmonths to move the limit in coffee and cocoa. It had requiredthe first two limited sugar deliveries to make such moves forthree consecutive sessions. reuter
GHANA COCOA PURCHASES SLOW The Ghana Cocoa Board said it purchased214 tonnes of cocoa in the 24th week, ended March 19, of the1986/87 main crop season, compared with 456 tonnes the previousweek and 372 tonnes in the 24th week ended March 27 of the1985/86 season.    Cumulative purchases so far this season stand at 217,449tonnes, ahead of the 204,256 tonnes purchased by the 24th weekof last season. REUTER
MALAYSIA DECLINES TO STATE POSITION ON COCOA PACT Government officials in Malaysia, amajor cocoa producer, have declined to say whether it will jointhe International Cocoa Agreement (ICCA) for which buffer stockrules were agreed in London last week.    Ministry of Primary Industries officials said in Januarythe cabinet would decide on Malaysia's participation, but sofar a decision has not been announced. The government is saidto be in favour of joining the pact, but local cocoa growersand traders told Reuters they are against the idea becausecertain provisions in it may be to their disadvantage.    Malaysia is the world's fourth largest cocoa producer. Thegovernment feels that the pact, through its buffer stockmechanism, can help stabilise prices in a market which islabouring under surpluses, officials said.    But growers and traders are concerned Malaysia'sparticipation in the pact will require them to pay a levy forexports of cocoa to non-member countries of the ICCA.    They estimate the levy at around 100 ringgit a tonne atcurrent prices and said they are not prepared to accept itbecause a big portion of Malaysia's cocoa exports, officiallyestimated at 112,000 tonnes in 1986, goes to non-members.    Most growers and traders added they are also against abuffer stock measure under the agreement which requireswithholding of cocoa stocks when prices slump.    Malaysia, which produced 117,000 tonnes of cocoa last year,might be forced to withhold up to 70,000 tonnes worth some 30mln ringgit under such a measure in the long-term, and thismight affect their economic viability, they said.    "The cost of maintaining such a stock can be high and itwill be a real messy business for the government and the tradeif it ever occurs," an industry source said.    The growers and traders also said that under new bufferstock rules Malaysia can continue to benefit even if it is nota member of the pact, as the buffer stock manager is alsoallowed to buy from non-members for the stockpile.    Under the new rules purchases from non-members, such asMalaysia, will be limited to 15 pct of the total stock.    Malaysia has come under pressure from some producers tojoin the pact soon, officials said, but they noted that it neednot rush to do so as there are provisions which allow countriesto join the agreement even at a later date. REUTER
JAPAN DENIES PLANS TO CUT DUTIES ON CHOCOLATE Agriculture Ministry officials said theyare not considering cuts in import duties on chocolate to helpease friction with the United States over agricultural trade.    Japan has already lowered the duties sharply and we mustconsider domestic market conditions, an official said.    Duties on chocolate were cut to 20 pct from 31.9 pct inApril 1983.    Washington has been demanding a cut to seven pct,equivalent to its own duties, ministry sources said.    Japanese chocolate imports rose to 8,285 tonnes in calendar1986 from 5,908 in 1985, official statistics show.    However, the ministry sources added it is possible thegovernment may make further cuts in response to strong U.S. AndEuropean demand.    "Due to concern about the farm trade row with the U.S.,Top-level government officials may press the ministry to cutthe duties," one said.    But he said it would be difficult for Japan to resolve itsoverall trade row with Washington and reduce its trade surplus,which reached 58.6 billion dlrs in 1986.    Agricultural trade issues between Japan and the U.S.Include Japanese import restrictions on 12 farm products. REUTER
LONDON COCOA TRADES AT LOWS BY MIDMORNING Cocoa futures fell to session lows bymidmorning, posting losses from last night of six to two stg atonne in 1987 deliveries, dealers said.    Weekend profittaking by jobbers and general book-squaringfeatured the fall which was aided by steady sterling versus thedollar and lack of offtake in the physicals market.    Dealers said the market was switch and straddle-bound, inthat any pressure on one particular month was certain to bereflected in adjacent deliveries.    The undertone, however, remained cautious as operatorsawait an eventual start to ICCO buffer stock buying, dealerssaid.    The market was originally forecast to open with averagefive stg gains from last night following New York's firmerclose yesterday, dealers said.    But this was largely counter-balanced by currency factors.    Near July traded at its session low of 1,327 stg after onehour versus 1,333 bid last night and an early high of 1,335.    Volume midmorning was 730 lots including 350 lots crossedand 108 switches.    There was no sign of any origin activity. REUTER
DUTCH COCOA BEAN IMPORTS RISE IN JANUARY Total Dutch imports of cocoa beansrose to 17,978 tonnes in January from 13,961 in January 1986,while exports fell to 1,852 tonnes from 3,111, the CentralBureau of Statistics said.    Cocoa butter imports rose slightly to 1,699 tonnes from1,507, while exports fell slightly to 6,211 from 6,293 tonnes.    Imports of cocoa powder fell to 316 tonnes from 469 andexports to 5,944 from 6,106 tonnes. Reuter
LEADING COCOA PRODUCERS DISCUSS INTERNATIONAL PACT Leading cocoa producers will discusswhether newly-agreed rules on an international cocoa bufferstock will succeed in reversing a sharp fall in world priceswhen they start four day's of talks here later today,conference sources said.    Another topic likely to be discussed at the twice-yearlymeeting of the Cocoa Producer Alliance (CPA) is the pact'ssecond line of market support -- a witholding scheme underwhich exporters can take up to 120,000 tonnes of cocoa off themarket if buffer stock purchases fail to defend prices.    The International Cocoa Organisation is due to discuss thescheme at a meeting in June, and exporters could use theYaounde talks to work out a common position on the issue, thesources said.    Delegates will also be briefed on arrangements for aninternational cocoa research conference due to take place inSanto Domingo in the Dominican Republic next month, CPAsecretary general D.S. Kamga said.    The 11-member CPA include the world's top three producersof Ivory Coast, Brazil and Ghana and accounts for around 80 pctof world output. REUTER
COCOA BUFFER STOCK MAY FACE UPHILL BATTLE - TRADE The International Cocoa Organization(ICCO) buffer stock could face an uphill battle to halt thedowntrend in world cocoa prices when it begins buyingoperations in the next few weeks, cocoa traders said.    Traders said they believed buffer stock purchases couldreach 75,000 tonnes in a matter of weeks without lifting pricessignificantly, given the amount of surplus cocoa overhangingthe market. The buffer stock may begin buying shortly as theICCO 10 day average indicator price is now at 1,578.03 SpecialDrawing Rights (SDR) per tonne, below the 1,600 "must buy" level.    Rules governing buffer stock operations were agreed lastmonth by the ICCO council. Buying will begin once the bufferstock manager has completed preparations, traders said.    Some traders said the buffer stock manager may delay bufferstock buying until mid or end-April when changes in months usedto calculate the ICCO indicator may lift the 10 day averageabove the 1,600 SDR "must buy" level.    The ICCO indicator price is calculated from the average ofthe second, third and fourth positions on the London and NewYork futures markets. The daily price was 1,577.61 SDR pertonne yesterday.    Months used currently for the indicator are May, July andSeptember, but these are set to change to July, September andDecember on April 15, prior to May becoming the New York spotmonth, traders noted.    The introduction of December into the calculations may liftthe daily SDR price as December is currently quoted about 75stg above May on the London terminal market.    But the buffer stock manager would have to wait for thehigher daily price to feed through into the 10-day average, theindicator which governs his activities, traders said.    "The buffer stock manager is obviously looking at theimplications of delaying until forward prices lift theindicator since it might mean he has to buy less cocoa," ananalyst from a leading cocoa trade house said.    Traders said the buffer stock purchases could reach 75,000tonnes fairly quickly once buying starts. If purchases reachthis level within six months, buying is suspended pending anICCO council review of price ranges. But some cocoa marketwatchers said the buffer stock may benefit from recentforecasts for a poor Brazilian Bahia temporao crop at 1.5 mlnto two mln 60 kilo bags against initial expectations of up tothree mln.    A lower than expected Brazilian crop may cut the 1986/87world surplus to between 50,000 and 70,000 tonnes, comparedwith a recent forecast by the ICCO statistics committee of94,000 tonnes, traders said.    In these circumstances, the buffer stock may only need tobuy between 20,000 and 30,000 tonnes to lift prices above the"must buy" level.    But some dealers said the ICCO buffer stock rules may putconstraints on how quickly and effectively the buffer stockmanager can remove cocoa from the market.    The buffer stock system of price differentials setaccording to quality and a 15 pct limit on purchases fromnon-members could limit the buffer stock's scope for action,dealers said.    Most of the cocoa readily available to the buffer stock isnearby in-store material of Malaysian and Ivory Coast origin.    But the buffer stock can only buy 15 pct Malaysian cocoa asMalaysia is not an ICCO member, while purchases of nearby cocoacan only reach 40 pct in any one day, which forces the bufferstock to buy some intermediate and forward shipment material.    Limits on buffer stock purchases of nearby and non-membercocoa will reduce the impact on terminal prices which arepressured by the overhang of Malaysian material, traders said.    Buffer stock purchases of forward shipment cocoa fromquality producers such as Ghana will have only a limited impacton futures, but is likely to widen physical market premiums forthis cocoa over futures.    Ghana's premium to the terminal has risen to about 50 stgfrom 25 to 30 stg a month ago partly in anticipation of bufferstock buying, dealers said.    "The buffer stock may not help the terminal market, but willprovide a backstop for quality cocoas," one trader said.    Traders cautioned that views on the impact of the bufferstock were "all prognostication" and that no one could hope topredict accurately what the result would be. Psychologicallybuffer stock buying should help prices, but since the bufferstock already holds a carryover of 100,000 tonnes from theprevious cocoa agreement and the market is in surplus, dealersexpressed doubts purchases can counter bearish pressure.    In June the ICCO is due to discuss rules for a withholdingscheme as an additional market support mechanism. REUTER
COCOA EXPORTERS EXPECTED TO LIMIT SALES Major cocoa exporters are likely tolimit sales in the weeks ahead in an effort to boost worldprices, sources close to a meeting of the Cocoa ProducersAlliance (CPA) said.    The sources said the depressed world market had been one ofthe main topics discussed in a closed door meeting of the11-member CPA which began on Monday.    They said producers agreed that cutting sales would aid thebuffer stock manager of a new international cocoa pact in hiseffort to support prices.    Major cocoa producing and consuming nations agreedoperation rules for the buffer stock at a meeting in Londonlast month and the stock manager is expected to enter themarket soon.    Prices, under the weight of three successive cocoasurpluses, recently fell to the level at which the manager hasto buy cocoa under stock rules.    The buffer stock aims to keep prices within a pre-set rangeby buying when prices fall and selling when they rise.    "The world's cocoa price at present is just not interesting,"commented one delegate representing a major CPA producer.    Another source said that with much of the 1986/87(October-September) world cocoa crop sold, limiting sales inthe near term concerns essentially next year's harvest.    The sources noted, however, that the cocoa industry inBrazil, the world's number two producer, is in private hands.This means limiting sales is more difficult than in major WestAfrican producers, where sales are made or authorized bycommodity marketing boards.    The CPA includes the world's top three producers, IvoryCoast, Brazil and Ghana, and accounts for 80 pct of all output.    The meeting here is due to end tomorrow evening. Reuter
COCOA TERMINAL DEPOSITS TO BE CUT 25 PCT - ICCH The basic deposit on cocoa futurescontracts will be reduced by 25 pct as from Friday, April 10,taking the required deposit for one 10 tonne lot to 300 stgfrom 400 previously, a spokesman for the InternationalCommodity Clearing House (ICCH) said.    The deposit for spread contracts will be similarly cut, to150 stg for a one 10 tonne lot from 200 previously, he said.    The ICCH had been looking at cocoa market fluctuations overa period of weeks, he said, adding the market's basic stabilityhad warranted a cut in deposit rates.    The decision to cut deposits was taken by the ICCH afterconsultation with the London Cocoa Terminal Market, thespokesman said.    The cuts were likely to attract more business to themarket, he said. Reuter
BRAZIL COCOA EXPORTERS UNLIKELY TO LIMIT SALES Brazilian cocoa exporters are notlikely to follow the example of Cocoa Producers Alliance, CPA,members, who may limit sales of the product in an effort toboost world prices, trade sources said.    They said a similar procedure was taken in the past inBrazil and that it did not work out according to plans.    "The cocoa market is completely free. Unlike coffee, whichis controlled through export registrations, cocoa exporters inBrazil operate at their own free will," a trade source said.    The traders were responding to questions whether they wouldfollow the example of CPA members meeting in Yaounde.    The sources said the Banco do Brasil's Foreign TradeDepartment, CACEX, never interferes in the cocoa market byrejecting sales that do not meet certain price or shipmentcriteria.    "The position of local producers is always to negotiate asthey please. If they buy for ten and sell for eleven and thinkit's a good deal, they are free to go ahead," one source added. Reuter
W.GERMAN COCOA GRIND UP 2.9 PCT IN FIRST QUARTER The West German cocoa grind rose 2.9pct to 55,190 tonnes in the first quarter of 1987 from 53,643tonnes in the same quarter of of 1986, the Bonn-basedConfectionery Industry Association said in a statement. REUTER TAW
WEST GERMAN COCOA GRINDINGS WITHIN EXPECTATIONS West German first quarter cocoagrindings, which rose 2.9 pct from the same 1986 quarter, werewithin expectations, trade sources said.    They described the results, announced Saturday, as normaland unspectacular, considering that the grind in the fourthquarter was rather high and some was carried over into thefirst quarter.    Grindings rose to 55,190 tonnes from 53,643 in the first1986 quarter. A spokesman for the Confectionery IndustryAssociation said that West German grindings are expected tostay relatively high in comparison to other West Europeancountries. REUTER
FRENCH AID TO TOGO TO HELP COFFEE, COCOA TREES France is to provide Togo with 475 mln cfafrancs of aid for a range of projects that include developmentof the coffee and cocoa industries and reafforestation in thesouth of the country, official sources said. Reuter
COCOA ORIGINS DISMAYED BY BUFFER STOCK ACTION Traders recently returned from West Africasay some producers there are dismayed by the ineffective actionso far by the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) bufferstock manager on buffer stock purchases.    One trader said some West African producers are annoyed theBuffer Stock manager is not playing his part as required by theInternational Cocoa Pact to stabilise prices from current lows.    So far, only 21,000 tonnes of second hand cocoa have beentaken up for buffer stock purposes and this, traders noted,only on an intermittent basis.    They noted the purchases, of 8,000 tonnes in the first weekhe bought and 13,000 in the second, are well short of thelimitations of no more than 5,000 tonnes in one day and 20,000in one week which the cocoa agreement places on him.    The traders recently returned from West Africa sayproducers there are unhappy about the impact on cocoa prices sofar, noting producing countries are part of the internationalcocoa pact and deserve the same treatment as consumers.    London traders say terminal market prices would have togain around 300 stg a tonne to take the ICCO 10-day averageindicator to its 1,935 sdr per tonne midway point (or referenceprice).    However, little progress has been made in that direction,and the 10-day average is still well below the 1,600 sdr lowerintervention level at 1,562.87 from 1,569.46 previously.    The buffer stock manager may announce today he will bemaking purchases tomorrow, although under the rules of theagreement such action is not automatic, traders said.    Complaints about the inaction of the buffer stock managerare not confined to West African producers, they observed.    A Reuter report from Rotterdam quoted industry sourcesthere saying Dutch cocoa processors also are unhappy with theintermittent buffer stock buying activities.    In London, traders expressed surprise that no more than21,000 tonnes cocoa has been bought so far against totalpotential purchases under the new agreement of 150,000 tonnes.Carryover holdings from the previous International CocoaAgreement in the stock total 100,000 tonnes.    Terminal prices today rose by up to 10 stg a tonne fromFriday's close, basis July at its high of 1,271.    It seems that when the buffer stock manager is absent fromthe market, prices go up, while when he declares his intentionto buy, quite often the reverse applies, traders said. Reuter
ICCO buffer stock manager to buy 5,000 tonnes cocoa Tuesday, June 2 -  <Hayes Microcomputer Products Inc>said it has introduced five new V-series system products and anew generation communication software package, Smartcom III.    Hayes said the new V-series includes the V-SeriesSmartmodem 9600, V-Series Smartmodem 9600B, V-Series Smartmodem2400 and V-series Smartmodem 2400B.    These products provide error control, adaptive datacompression and automatic feature negotiation, Hayes said.    Hayes also said it has established a network of dealers anddistributors aurthorized to sell the new products.    The company also said it has introduced a V-series ModemEnhancer and has reduced the estimated retail prices on itscurrent modem product line.    Its other new product, the Smartcom III, is acommunications program for the International Business MachinesCorp <IBM> PC, Compaq Computer <CPQ> and compatible personalcomputers, the company said.    Hayes said it has priced the Smartmodem 9600 at 1,299 dlrs,Smartmodem 9600B at 1,199 dlrs (1,299 dlrs with Smartcom III),V-Series Smartmodem 2400 at 899 dlrs and V-series Smartmodem2400B at 849 dlrs (899 dlrs with Smartcom).    In addition, Hayes said that following an introductorypromotional price of 199 dlrs  until September 30, the V-seriesmodem enhancer will have an estimated retail price of 349 dlrs.    Smartcom III will be priced at 249 dlrs, Hayes said, addingthat all products will be available this month. Reuter
W.R. GRACE <GRA>, BERISFORD PLAN COCOA VENTURE W.R. Grace and Co said it has agreed tocombine its cocoa processing businesses with those of S. and W.Berisford PLC.    It said the joint venture, to be 68.4 pct owned by Graceand 31.6 pct by Berisford, would have annual sales in 1987 ofover 700 mln dlrs.    Grace said the transaction involves the combination of itscocoa products division and two Berisford cocoa processingunits, which would be operated under Grace management.    The company said Berisford would contribute its Dutch andWest German cocoa subsidiaries and issue new ordinary shares toGrace in connection with the transaction.  It said closing isexpected by early fall, subject to regulatory approvals. Reuter
ICCO buffer stock manager to buy 3,000 tonnes cocoa Wednesday, June 3 -  The buffer stock manager of theInternational Cocoa Organization (ICCO) will tender for about3,000 tonnes of cocoa beans Wednesday, June 3, the ICCO said ina statement.    It said all other conditions remain unchanged from theprevious announcement.    These conditions are that offers from registered companiesshould be in pounds sterling for cocoa beans for which standarddifferentials have been set in the ICCO's buffer stock rules,and can be for cocoa afloat through to December shipment andspot to December arrival/delivery.    The basis position will be afloat, May/July shipment orJune arrival/delivery. For later positions the appropriatecarrying costs will be taken into account.    The deadline for the receipt of offers by the manager shallbe 1330 hrs london time (1230 gmt) in the case of offersemanating from the secondhand market and 1400 hours in the caseof offers emanating from the origins.    The competitiveness of offers will be assessed by takinginto account the standard differentials, the cost of takingcocoa into store (currently 23.00 pounds sterling from "ciflanded" and 38.00 pounds sterling from "cif shipping weights"to "in store") and the cost of carry which currently is 12.00pounds sterling per month, the ICCO said.    No more than four offers will be considered from eachoffering party, it added. Reuter
DROUGHT THREATENS FAMINE, COCOA DAMAGE IN GHANA Ghana is taking steps to combat imminentfamine in certain areas near its border with Togo followingscant rainfall, Accra Radio reported today.    The Radio, monitored in Abidjan, said fishing and farmingactivities have been disrupted in certain districts around theVolta region near the eastern coast.    The report follows a period of unusually dry weather inboth Ghana and the Ivory Coast, which trade sources in Abidjansaid could pose problems for important developing cocoa crops.    The Accra Radio report said a Ghanaian governmentdelegation, which visited the Anglo and Ketu districts lastweek to investigate reports of food shortages, promised thepeople a regular supply of maize, rice and sugar.    At Anglo, the delegation was told that the Keta Lagoon haddried up, halting fishing activities, while catches at sea werepoor and crops had failed, all due to lack of rainfall. Reuter
CAOBISCO CONDEMNS EC OILS AND FATS TAX PROPOSAL The proposed European Community (EC) levyon oils and fats has been criticised by CAOBISCO, theassociation of EC biscuit, chocolate and confectionerymanufacturers.    In a letter to the President of the Council of Ministers,M. Eyskens, the association said the tax would cost the ECbiscuit, cake, chocolate and confectionery industries almost200 mln European currency units per year.    The tax also was contrary to the spirit of the GeneralAgreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and could prompt U.S.Retaliatory measures on EC exports, CAOBISCO said.    In a parallel move the British Biscuit, Cake, Chocolate andConfectionery Alliance has written to U.K. Chancellor of theExchequer Nigel Lawson urging him to oppose the levy.    President Charles Gillett said the tax was extending theCommission's powers by allowing it to set levels of consumertaxation, an area previously reserved for national treasuries. Reuter
POOR RAINFALL MAY HIT IVORY COAST COCOA - TRADE Lack of rainfall in recent weeks mayhave affected Ivory Coast 1987/88 main crop cocoa prospects,although good precipitation in the last half of June and inJuly could still reverse the situation, trade sources said.    They said the crop is still likely to be fairly large andit is too early to determine the consequences of the dry spellon the harvest.    "This year's crop will probably be another good one. It isimpossible to tell how flowering is going, but there should beno problems unless something drastic happens," one trader said.    Private forecaster Accu-Weather reported today that mostIvory Coast cocoa growing regions were without rain over theweekend and similar weather will persist today and Tuesday.    "Rain would be welcomed, as the past week has been quitedry, except along the western portion of the coast," it said.    Traders agreed rain was needed, but some noted that the dryconditions had not affected the entire country.    The Ivorian Meteorological Office could not be reached forcomment or recent statistics. The trade sources said rainfallin recent weeks was likely insufficient for cocoa plants,although it is difficult to assess what the minimumrequirements are.    Trade sources said there had been good rains in lateJanuary, February and March which helped to promote flowering,but April and May were fairly dry in most areas except in thesouth west of the country.    The Ivory Coast mid-crop should have been covered byMarch/April rains but the main crop, still in its formationperiod, depends largely on rainfall from April through July.    The main rains normally last between May and July, beforereturning again in September/October. "Flowering has been lessthan normal and if the trees are not carrying that much at themoment, then they have a chance to recover," one trader said.    Another trade source noted the flowers still had plenty oftime to develop and the rains were "not good but still not bad."    The sources said that while the weather might emerge as acause for concern, crop conditions in West Africa werepresently taking a back seat to other factors in theinternational cocoa market.    This is not only because of the premature nature of anyharvest predictions but also because of the supply of cocoaalready burdening the market, they said.    "With a third year of surplus overhanging the market and thebuffer stock failing to boost prices despite regular purchases,the weather has not been a factor," one private consultant said.    London-based dealer Gill and Duffus said in its April cocoamarket report the current 1986/87 Ivory Coast crop was likelyto total 570,000 tonnes, which compares with a record 1985/86crop estimate of 585,000 tonnes. Reuter
ICCO buffer stock manager to b Sithe-Energies LP said it has signedan agreement under which it will increase its interest inEnergy Factors Inc to 70.0 pct from 53.4 pct now by investing100 mln dlrs in Energy Factors stock. Reuter
JAPAN TO RATIFY 1986 INTERNATIONAL COCOA AGREEMENT Japan will ratify the 1986 InternationalCocoa Agreement (ICCA), with effect from July 1, and will renewits membership in the International Cocoa Organisation (ICCO),Foreign Affairs Ministry officials said.    They said Japan would participate in an ICCO meeting onJuly 13 in London to revise ICCO buffer stock policy.    The 1986 ICCA has been in effect since January 1987.    Government approval to participate in the ICCO was delayedby parliamentary debate over the sales tax issue, the officialssaid. REUTER
ASIAN COCOA PRODUCERS EXPAND DESPITE CRITICS Asian cocoa producers are expandingoutput despite depressed world prices and they dismisssuggestions in the London market that their cocoa is inferior.    "Leading cocoa producers are trying to protect their marketfrom our product," said a spokesman for Indonesia's directorategeneral of plantations. "We're happy about our long-term future."    Malaysian growers said they would try to expand sales inAsia and the United States if Malaysian cocoa was not suitablefor European tastes.    They were responding to comments by London traders thatlarge tonnages of unwanted cocoa beans from Malaysia, Indonesiaand Papua New Guinea (PNG) were helping to depress cocoaprices.    London traders said the Asian cocoa was consideredunsuitable for western palates because of an acrid odour and ahigh level of free fatty acids.    Ng Siew Kee, the chairman of Malaysia's Cocoa Growers'Council, said Malaysia should expand its sales to Asia and theUnited States if it did not produce a type suitable for WesternEurope.    A spokesman for the PNG Cocoa Industry Board said theLondon market was mistaken if it linked PNG cocoa withhigh-acid Malaysian and Indonesian beans.    "When the market is declining, buyers seize on anything totalk down prices," the spokesman said.    He said that PNG could sell whatever cocoa it produces.    PNG exported 33,000 tonnes of cocoa in the 1986/87 cocoayear ending September 30, of which nearly 50 pct was exportedto West Germany, 16 pct to the U.S. And the rest to theNetherlands and Britain.    The Indonesia spokesman, an Agriculture Ministry officialwho wished not to be identified, said Indonesia had no problemwith quality and would continue to expand sales. He describedcriticism of the quality of Indonesian beans as "trade politics"and said Jakarta's traditional links with Dutch buyers meant itdid not have any difficulty with exports.    Indonesia and Malaysia, Asia's two biggest commodityproducers, are expanding cocoa output and are both outside theInternational Cocoa Organization (ICCO).    Officials have said Malaysian production is expected tototal 150,000 to 155,000 tonnes in calendar 1987.    This is up from 131,000 tonnes in 1986, partly because ofthe end of a three-year drought in Sabah, the country's largestcocoa growing area.    Production of Indonesian cocoa beans tripled to 31,600tonnes in calendar 1986 from 10,284 tonnes in 1980. Output isprojected to rise to 50,000 tonnes in 1988 from 38,000 tonnesthis year as young trees mature.    Both Malaysia and Indonesia are low cost producers andtraders said they could last out low prices longer than WestAfrican countries.    According to one Kuala Lumpur trader, world prices wouldhave to fall another 1,000 ringgit per tonne (about 250 stg) tomake cocoa production in Malaysia uneconomic.    Some traders believe the main quality problem is withharvesting and fermentation techniques.    One trader said Malaysian cocoa is virtuallyindistinguishable from West African output if treated in thesame way but this is not possible on the larger Malaysianestates. REUTER
