VEGETABLE OILS MAY TIGHTEN DESPITE SEED SURPLUS Lower production of coconutand palm oils could lead to a decline in vegetable oil stocksthis year despite growing supplies of oilseeds, senior oilseedsanalyst for Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Mario Balletto said.    Balletto told a conference of Canadian farmers at AlbertaAgriculture's annual farm outlook conference that the worldvegetable oil situation is one of potentially tight supplies.    "Prices for edible oils appear to have more upsidepotential reflecting strong world demand and an unprecedenteddecline in the production of tree oils," Balletto said.    Balletto estimated production of palm, coconut and palmkernel oils this year at 8.5 mln tonnes, down from 9.1 mlntonnes last year, enough to offset higher oilseed output.    He estimated total vegetable oil production this year at33.4 mln tonnes, up from 33.0 mln last year, and disappearanceat 34.0 mln tonnes, up from 32.6 mln.    Unless oilseed crushing increases sharply, he said,disappearance of vegetable oils could exceed production by600,000 tonnes, the largest deficit since 1976.    "If world protein meal demand stagnates, thus limiting thecrush of soybeans ... the need for serious supply rationing inthe edible oils sector could develop," he said.    "This would be relatively favorable for the prices of highoil yielding seeds," Balletto said.    Oilseeds, on the other hand, remain at depressed pricesbecause of burdensome supplies, he said.    World ending stocks of oilseeds are estimated to increasefor the fourth straight year to a record 28.4 mln tonnes,compared with 25.4 mln last year.    The increase should result from lower disappearance, asproduction is expected to fall to 184.0 mln tonnes from 185.7mln last year, he said.    World soybean production in 1987 totalled a record 98.9 mlntonnes, up from 90.6 mln the previous year, Balletto said,while production of other oilseeds was lower.    Higher soybean production in South America and Europe madeup for lower production in the United States, he said.    Soybeans account for the bulk of the surplus, and U.S.stocks make up most of those, Balletto said.    The Commodity Credit Corporation owned 12.7 mln tonnes,about half of the world soybean surplus, he said.    Since 1983-84, he said, world oilseed stocks have increased13.1 mln tonnes.    "During the same period, U.S. soybean stocks increased 12.1mln tonnes, becoming the dumping ground of the entire worldsurplus, courtesy of the CCC and highlighting the artificiallyhigh prices caused by the U.S. loan program."    "Soybean prices and, to a great extent, world oilseedsprices are likely to be dominated by the loan program, as longas the U.S. soybean surplus continues.    For the 1987 crop, he said, prices are likely to hover in arange tied to the U.S. loan program.    "Upside potential for prices is limited by the huge supplyoverhang while strong underlying support is provided by theU.S. loan rate."    The problem is likely to become worse as the artificiallyhigh prices encourage producers in South America, Canada andAustralia to shift from grains to oilseeds, Balletto said. Reuter
COCONUT OIL CONTRACT TO CHANGE - DUTCH TRADERS Contract terms for trade in coconutoil are to be changed from long tons to tonnes with effect fromthe Aug/Sep contract onwards, Dutch vegetable oil traders said.    Operators have already started to take account of theexpected change and reported at least one trade in tonnes forAug/Sept shipment yesterday.    The Federation of Oils Seeds and Fats Associations, FOSFA,in London said it had previously advised traders to adopt themetric system for coconut oil transactions to bring thecommodity into line with other vegetable oils. REUTER
(CORRECTED) - PHILIPPINES CRITICISES EC FOR OIL LEVY Philippines Trade andIndustry Secretary Jose Concepcion told world trade ministershe wondered if their agreement was of any real value after theEuropean Community (EC) proposed a levy on vegetable oils.    Concepcion, speaking at an informal meeting of the GeneralAgreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) here, said ministersdeclared in Uruguay last September that the trade ofless-developed nations should not be disrupted.    He said the EC not only ignored Manila's request for lowertariffs on coconut oil but proposed a levy on vegetable oilsand fats that are vital exports for Southeast Asian countries.    Concepcion said while the levy might be rejected by the ECCouncil of Ministers, he noted that "I cannot help but wonderwhether the agreements we produce in meetings like this are ofany real value."    He also said industrialised nations saved about 65 billionU.S. Dlrs in 1985 through low commodity prices, but this hadaffected the ability of developing nations to import goods andservices.    "The health and the growth of world trade requires that thenew development of developing countries losing their share ofworld trade be arrested and reversed," he said. REUTER
U.S. SCIENTISTS SAY TROPICAL OILS HEALTH RISK U.S. scientists said some tropicalvegetable oils can be hazardous to consumers whose health is atrisk because of high levels of saturated fat, lending weight toa campaign by the American Soybean Association (ASA) forlabelling changes.    The scientists appeared to support an ASA charge, denied byMalaysian palm growers, that imported coconut, palm and palmkernel oils contain high levels of saturated fat and thus raiseblood cholesterol and the risk of heart disease.    In a petition filed in January, the ASA asked the U.S. Foodand Drug Administration (FDA) to require palm, palm kernel andcoconut oils to be identified as saturated fats on foodmanufacturers' labels.    The FDA responded to the ASA in a letter saying it wouldconsider the petition as a comment to a proposed rule dealingwith cholesterol and fatty acid labelling of foods.    Malaysian oil palm growers have said the charges by the ASAthat palm oil consumption increases blood cholesterol andcontributes to heart disease are untrue.    But Steve Chang, Professor of Food Science at RutgersUniversity, said, "Palm oil is definitely not good for humanhealth because it has a high content of saturated fatty acid."    He added that the higher the fatty acid, the greater theblood cholesterol level. "It has been well established thathigh cholesterol levels will have a higher level of heartdisease," he said.    A Malaysian Oil Palm Growers Council official, BorgeBek-Nielsen, has said studies have shown that palm oil ischolesterol-free, low in saturated fats, has anti-cancerproperties and prevents blood clotting and blocking of arteriesin humans.    Bek-Nielsen said Americans consume more saturated fatsdaily through food like butter, bacon, ham and beef than frompalm oil, which, he added is rich in vitamins A and E.    David Kritchevsky, Associate Director of the WistarInstitute in Philadelphia, appeared to take the ASA view onlabelling. "What people really have to learn is to read labels,"said Kritchevsky. "The more a consumer knows, the more likely hewill make an intelligent choice."    The U.S. scientists said they had no doubt imported palm,palm kernel and coconut oils contain high saturated fat levels.    Kritchevsky, a specialist in nutrition, said, "Moresaturated fat would raise cholesterol levels...So, from thatpoint of view it's a health risk. High cholesterol levels inthe blood are a risk factor for heart disease."    Susanne Harris, deputy assistant secretary of the U.S.Agriculture Department's Food and Consumer Services Division,said the health risk among consumers of vegetable oils withhigh saturated fat levels was highest among those who haveheart disease.    The scientists said more than 50 pct of the fatty acidcontent of the tropical oils was saturated, whereas less than20 pct of the fatty acid content of soybean oil was saturated.    David Ericksen, director of ASA's technical services, saidU.S. soybean producers could regain about one-half of the 273mln dlrs in sales lost to imported tropical oils if consumerswere aware the vegetable oils were high in saturated fat.    Imported tropical oils displace 171 mln bushels of U.S.soybean sales in the U.S. market, ASA estimates.    U.S. imports of coconut oil during January totaled 82.9 mlnlbs compared with 48.0 mln lbs in December and 106.5 mln a yearearlier, according to Commerce Department figures.    Imports of palm oil totaled 44.0 mln lbs compared with 51.3mln lbs in December and 85.2 mln a year earlier. Reuter
PHILIPPINE COCONUT CHIEF TO LOBBY AGAINST EC TAX Philippine Coconut Authority (PCA)chairman Jose Romero said he would visit Brussels later thismonth to lobby against a proposed 100 pct European Community(EC) levy on vegetable oil imports.    "I intend to visit Brussels and talk to whoever is puttingup this devilish scheme to impoverish third world countrieslike the Philippines," Romero said in an interview.    He said he did not know how much support the levy hadwithin the EC but he said he believed those originally opposedto the tax were under pressure to change their position.    Romero said a group of EC members led by West Germany, theNetherlands, Denmark and Norway were opposed to the tax. Butthere was a danger some of them would be persuaded to changesides, and if that happened opposition could crumble.    Romero said another threat to exports lay in an EC warningthat copra meal cake used in livestock feeds containeddangerous levels of aflatoxin, a carcinogenic chemical.    He said the EC standard of 0.02 parts of aflatoxin permillion parts of meal, which EC countries had been asked toapply by October 1988, was too rigid. He said Philippine copracake contained much higher levels of aflatoxin.    Aflatoxin comes from moulds which develop in copra when itis not properly dried or ground.    Romero said he would tell big buyers of copra meal inLondon that the Philippines was doing its best to meet ECstandards. It was also trying to eliminate aflatoxin totally,but this was likely to take several years of research.    Copra meal exports were 817,641 tonnes or 35 pct of totalcoconut exports in 1986. The meal was worth 73.5 mln dlrs.    Romero said he would also visit Oxford University'sdepartment of agricultural economics to discuss ways ofavoiding the copra process altogether.    "There are ways of producing coconut products outside ofcopra," Romero said. "We can process fresh coconut without dryingthe meat in the sun. Through the wet process we can processcoconuts into other food or non-food products, or we can go tothe chemical root."    He said there was a tendency for agricultural countries tobecome more protectionist and he expected export prices ofcoconut products to drop.    "In the long term we will be getting less and less for moreand more production, and I'm not comfortable with that," hesaid.    With countries like Indonesia and Malaysia stepping upproduction of palm oil, a coconut oil substitute, palm oiloutput had risen nearly 70 pct since 1971, Romero said.    "To add to that the U.S. Soybean Association is spendingbillions of dollars to discredit palm oil and coconut oil bysaying that they are polysaturated fats and bad for the heart,"he said.    Romero said he expected coconut product export prices tostay up for the rest of the year. They would probably touch ahigh of 20 cents/pound from the current level of 18.59 cents,and a sharp rise from year-ago levels of 10.50 cents.    Romero said the Philippines was at the end of a five-yearcoconut production cycle which showed production tended to fallafter two successive years of good harvests.    He said 1985 and 1986 were good harvests and this year, toadd to the production fall, drought had affected output.    "Traders are stocking up and when they have overbought theprices will start declining again. The only sure way to keepprices stable is by processing, adding more value," he said.    Coconut farmers were being encouraged to intercrop byplanting other cash crops between coconut trees, he said.    "A typical farm may have from 100 to 150 trees sitting on10,000 square metres of land. That's a lot of space," Romerosaid. He said the government's proposed land reform programwould exclude about 75 pct of the coconut farmers because theyhad less than the proposed seven-hectares of land.    "If the idea of land reform is to increase income levels,production and employment then it won't happen," he said.    PCA figures show about one-third of the country'spopulation is dependent on the coconut industry.    Coconuts are planted on about 3.2 mln hectares orone-fourth of total agricultural land. REUTER
GROWTH OF PALM OIL USE SET TO SLOW, OUTPUT TO RISE The rate of increase in world palm oiluse is likely to slow next season despite an expected 800,000tonne production rise to 8.13 mln tonnes, Siegfried Mielke,editor of the Hamburg-based newsletter Oil World said.    He told the 8th Antwerp Oils and Fats Contact Days that inthe next Oct/Sept 1987/88 season, palm oil use will rise to8.25 mln tonnes from 7.71 mln, below the five-year averageincrease of 550,000 tonnes.     Opening stocks at the start of next October are expectedto be about 1.4 mln tonnes, 300,000 tonnes below year-earlierlevels, bringing total supplies to 9.5 mln tonnes, he said.    The anticipated total supplies will be about 500,000 tonnesabove this season's available amount, Mielke said.    The increase in mature palm tree areas in Malaysia willslow down from this year on, but that will be offset by areaexpansion in Indonesia, he said.    He estimated the combined rise in Malaysian and Indonesianmature area at 8.7 pct next year, after 9.5 pct this year, andat 6.7 pct in 1989 and 5.0 pct in 1990.    Malaysia also is shifting plantings to Sabah and Sarawak,where the rate of expansion is higher than in the Peninsula,but where yields are lower, he said.     The stocks/usage ratio of seven major oils is alsoexpected to decline, Mielke said. The oils are soybean,cottonseed, sunflowerseed, coconut, rapeseed, palmkernel andpalm.    At the start of October 1986 stocks of these oils wereunusually high and represented 6.8 weeks of the currentseason's prospective demand, compared with six weeks a year agoand with 5.4 weeks in 1984, he said.    Mielke expects the ratio to fall to 5.9 weeks by the startof next October and to the unusually low level of 5.4 weeks bythe end of next season.    The stocks/usage ratio for palm oil was 11.4 weeks lastOctober and is likely to be 8.7 weeks next October and 7.7 atthe end of next season, Mielke said.    World oilseed stocks also are expected to fall in thecourse of the next season, with the biggest reduction seen insoybean stocks, which Mielke expects to decline by 5.0 mlntonnes or by one fifth.    Almost all of the decline is expected to occur in the U.S.,for which he estimated ending stocks next season at 10.7 mlntonnes, or 393 mln bushels, against anticipated ending stocksof 15 mln tonnes, or 551 mln bushels, at the end of thisseason. Reuter
US TROPICAL OIL LABELING PLAN SUFFERS DEFEAT A proposal to require importedtropical oils to be labeled as saturated fats suffered a narrowand possibly debilitating defeat in the U.S. Senate.    The Senate Agriculture Committee rejected the proposal by a10-8 vote, virtually snuffing out U.S. soybean producers' hopesthe plan would be adopted this year.    A similar proposal has made no headway in the House.    Sen. Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) offered the proposal as anamendment to a farm spending reduction package.    "I don't see this as a trade issue. I see it as givingAmerican consumers the information they need," he said.    Proponents of the measure, including the American SoybeanAssociation, have claimed palm, palm kernel and coconut oilsare high in saturated fat and can contribute to heart disease.    The U.S. soybean industry believes labels indicatingtropical oils are high in saturated fats would discourageconsumption of the oils, imported primarily from Malaysia,Indonesia and the Philippines.    But Sen. Richard Lugar (R-Ind.) read a letter from U.S.Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter, who said the proposal"blatantly discriminates" against imports, would be impossible todefend under international trade law and would harm relationswith the Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia.    Yeutter's letter also said Americans derive most of theirsaturated fats from meat and dairy products and relativelylittle from tropical oils.    The committee voted largely along party lines, with threeDemocrats joining seven Republicans to oppose the measure. Reuter
