PHILIPPINE COCONUT PRODUCT EXPORTS FALL IN JANUARY Coconut product exports fell to 163,924copra tonnes in January from 196,610 tonnes in December and167,747 tonnes in January last year, government figures show.    Coconut product sales earned 44.54 mln dlrs compared with45.30 mln in December and 49.09 mln a year earlier. REUTER
PHILIPPINE COCONUT AGENCY GETS NEW ADMINISTRATOR Newly-installed Philippine CoconutAuthority Chairman Jose Romero has announced the appointment oflawyer Leandro Garcia as administrator, replacing Colonel FelixDuenas who is returning to military duty.    The new constitution does not allow military men to holdpositions in civilian agencies.    Duenas and four other military men who were assigned to theauthority in 1978, will return to the ministry of defence wherethey worked prior to their appointments at the coconut agency. REUTER
PHILIPPINE COCONUT INDUSTRY WORRIED BY EC TAX Philippine coconut oil exports to Europewould be virtually wiped out if the European Community (EC)implements a new tax on vegetable oils, Philippine CoconutAuthority (PCA) chairman Jose Romero said.    But he told reporters he did not think the EC would imposethe tax because of objections from the U.S.    "There's just so much flak coming from many countries,spearheaded by the United States, whose soybean exports wouldbe adversely affected. This would spark a trade war," he said.    The tax, to be imposed from July, would add about 375 dlrsa tonne to vegetable oils entering the EC.    The Philippines exported 43,540 tonnes of coconut oil worth11.7 mln dlrs to Europe in January, against total exports of86,959 tonnes worth 23.8 mln. It also exports copra and coprameal.    Agriculture Secretary Carlos Dominguez has also raisedobjections to the proposed EC tax.    He said it could cause the collapse of world demand andprices and destroy the domestic industry. REUTER
SRI LANKA TO UPGRADE QUALITY OF COCONUT PRODUCTS The Sri Lankan cabinet approvedrecommendations to upgrade the quality of coconut fibreproducts, the government said.    It said the recommendations also suggested thatencouragement be given for the manufacture of value-addedproducts from coconut fibre and a market development programmebe launched for traditional and value-added products.    It also suggested the setting up of a marketing mission oncoconut fibre to be sent this month to principal targetmarkets.    Sri Lanka is the world's second largest exporter ofdessicated coconut after the Philippines. REUTER
PHILIPPINE COCONUT CHIEF TO LOBBY AGAINST EC TAX Philippine Coconut Authority (PCA)chairman Jose Romero said he would visit Brussels later thismonth to lobby against a proposed 100 pct European Community(EC) levy on vegetable oil imports.    "I intend to visit Brussels and talk to whoever is puttingup this devilish scheme to impoverish third world countrieslike the Philippines," Romero said in an interview.    He said he did not know how much support the levy hadwithin the EC but he said he believed those originally opposedto the tax were under pressure to change their position.    Romero said a group of EC members led by West Germany, theNetherlands, Denmark and Norway were opposed to the tax. Butthere was a danger some of them would be persuaded to changesides, and if that happened opposition could crumble.    Romero said another threat to exports lay in an EC warningthat copra meal cake used in livestock feeds containeddangerous levels of aflatoxin, a carcinogenic chemical.    He said the EC standard of 0.02 parts of aflatoxin permillion parts of meal, which EC countries had been asked toapply by October 1988, was too rigid. He said Philippine copracake contained much higher levels of aflatoxin.    Aflatoxin comes from moulds which develop in copra when itis not properly dried or ground.    Romero said he would tell big buyers of copra meal inLondon that the Philippines was doing its best to meet ECstandards. It was also trying to eliminate aflatoxin totally,but this was likely to take several years of research.    Copra meal exports were 817,641 tonnes or 35 pct of totalcoconut exports in 1986. The meal was worth 73.5 mln dlrs.    Romero said he would also visit Oxford University'sdepartment of agricultural economics to discuss ways ofavoiding the copra process altogether.    "There are ways of producing coconut products outside ofcopra," Romero said. "We can process fresh coconut without dryingthe meat in the sun. Through the wet process we can processcoconuts into other food or non-food products, or we can go tothe chemical root."    He said there was a tendency for agricultural countries tobecome more protectionist and he expected export prices ofcoconut products to drop.    "In the long term we will be getting less and less for moreand more production, and I'm not comfortable with that," hesaid.    With countries like Indonesia and Malaysia stepping upproduction of palm oil, a coconut oil substitute, palm oiloutput had risen nearly 70 pct since 1971, Romero said.    "To add to that the U.S. Soybean Association is spendingbillions of dollars to discredit palm oil and coconut oil bysaying that they are polysaturated fats and bad for the heart,"he said.    Romero said he expected coconut product export prices tostay up for the rest of the year. They would probably touch ahigh of 20 cents/pound from the current level of 18.59 cents,and a sharp rise from year-ago levels of 10.50 cents.    Romero said the Philippines was at the end of a five-yearcoconut production cycle which showed production tended to fallafter two successive years of good harvests.    He said 1985 and 1986 were good harvests and this year, toadd to the production fall, drought had affected output.    "Traders are stocking up and when they have overbought theprices will start declining again. The only sure way to keepprices stable is by processing, adding more value," he said.    Coconut farmers were being encouraged to intercrop byplanting other cash crops between coconut trees, he said.    "A typical farm may have from 100 to 150 trees sitting on10,000 square metres of land. That's a lot of space," Romerosaid. He said the government's proposed land reform programwould exclude about 75 pct of the coconut farmers because theyhad less than the proposed seven-hectares of land.    "If the idea of land reform is to increase income levels,production and employment then it won't happen," he said.    PCA figures show about one-third of the country'spopulation is dependent on the coconut industry.    Coconuts are planted on about 3.2 mln hectares orone-fourth of total agricultural land. REUTER
