ICO PRODUCERS TO PRESENT NEW COFFEE PROPOSAL International Coffee Organization, ICO,producing countries will present a proposal for reintroducingexport quotas for 12 months from April 1 with a firmundertaking to try to negotiate up to September 30 any futurequota distribution on a new basis, ICO delegates said.    Distribution from April 1 would be on an unchanged basis asin an earlier producer proposal, which includes shortfallredistributions totalling 1.22 mln bags, they said.    Resumption of an ICO contact group meeting with consumers,scheduled for this evening, has been postponed until tomorrow,delegates said. Reuter
ICO EXPORTERS TO MODIFY NEW PROPOSAL International Coffee Organization (ICO)exporters will modify their new proposal on quota resumptionbefore presenting it to importers tomorrow, ICO delegates said.    The change, which will be discussed tonight informallyamong producers, follows talks after the formal producersession with the eight-member producer splinter group and willaffect the proposed quota distribution for 12 months from Aprilone, they said.    The proposed share-out would still include shortfalldeclarations, they said. Reuter
PRODUCER SPLIT HEATS UP COFFEE QUOTA TALKS Talks on the possibility of reintroducingglobal coffee export quotas have been extended into today, withsparks flying yesterday when a dissident group of exporters wasnot included in a key negotiating forum.    The special meeting of the International CoffeeOrganization (ICO) council was called to find a way to stop aprolonged slide in coffee prices.    However, delegates said no solution to the question of howto implement quotas was yet in sight.    World coffee export quotas -- the major device used toregulate coffee prices under the International Coffee Agreement-- were suspended a year ago when prices soared in reaction toa drought which cut Brazil"s output by nearly two thirds.    Brazil is the world"s largest coffee producer and exporter.    Producers and consumers now are facing off over thequestion of how quotas should be calculated under any futurequota distribution scheme, delegates said.    Tempers flared late Saturday when a minority group of eightproducing countries was not represented in a contact group offive producer and five consumer delegates plus alternates whichwas set up to facilitate debate.    The big producers "want to have the ball only in their courtand it isn"t fair," minority producer spokesman Luis Escalante ofCosta Rica said.    The majority producer group has proposed resuming quotasApril 1, using the previous ad hoc method of carving up quotashares, with a promise to try to negotiate basic quotas beforeSeptember 30, delegates said.    Their plan would perpetuate the status quo, allowing Brazilto retain almost all of its current 30 pct share of the exportmarket, Colombia 17 pct, Ivory Coast seven pct and Indonesiasix pct, with the rest divided among smaller exporters.    But consuming countries and the dissident producer grouphave tabled separate proposals requiring quotas be determinedby availability, using a formula incorporating exportableproduction and stocks statistics.    Their proposals would give Brazil a smaller quota share andColombia and Indonesia a larger share, and bring a new quotadistribution scheme into effect now rather than later.    Brazil has so far been unwilling to accept any proposalthat would reduce its quota share, delegates said.    Delegates would not speculate on prospects for agreement ona quota package. "Anything is possible at this phase," evenadjournment of the meeting until March or April, one said.    If the ICO does agree on quotas, the price of coffee on thesupermarket shelf is not likely to change sinnificantly as aresult, industry sources said.    Retail coffee prices over the past year have remained aboutsteady even though coffee market prices have tumbled, so anupswing probably will not be passed onto the consumer either,they said. REUTER
INDONESIAN AGRICULTURE GROWTH EXPECTED TO SLOW Indonesia"s agriculture sector will growby just 1.0 pct in calendar 1987, against an estimated 2.4 pctin 1986 as the production of some commodities stagnates ordeclines, the U.S. Embassy said in a report.    Production of Indonesia"s staple food, rice, is forecast tofall to around 26.3 mln tonnes from an embassy estimate of26.58 mln tonnes in 1986, according to the annual report onIndonesia"s agricultural performance.    The government officially estimates 1986 rice production at26.7 mln tonnes, with a forecast 27.3 mln tonnes output in1987.    The report says wheat imports are likely to fall to 1.5 mlntonnes in calendar 1987 from 1.69 mln tonnes in 1986 because ofa drawdown on stocks.    "Growth prospects for agriculture in 1987 do not lookpromising as rice production is forecast to decline and theproduction of sugarcane, rubber and copra show little or nogain," the report says.    "The modest overall increase which is expected will be dueto significant gains in production of corn soybeans, palm oiland palm kernels."    Constraints to significant overall increases inagricultural output include a shortage of disease resistantseeds, limited fertile land, insect pests and a reluctance byfarmers to shift from rice production to other crops, thereport underlines.    The fall in rice production is caused by an outbreak ofpests known as "wereng" or brown plant hoppers in 1986 whichlargely offset gains in yields.    The outbreak has forced the government to ban the use of 57insecticides on rice because it was believed the wereng are nowresistant to these varieties, and to use lower-yielding, moreresistant rice types.    The government is depending on increased production ofexport commodities such as coffee, tea, rubber, plywood andpalm oil to offset revenue losses brought on by falling crudeoil prices.    Palm oil production is expected to increase by over 7.0 pctin 1987 to 1.45 mln tonnes from 1.35 mln, with exports risingto an estimated 720,000 tonnes from 695,000 tonnes in 1986, thereport says.    But while production of soybeans in 1987/88 (Oct-Sept) willrise to 1.075 mln tonnes from 980,000 in 1986/87, imports willalso rise to supply a new soybean crushing plant.    The report says that imports of wheat, soybeans, soybeanmeal and cotton are not likely to decline as a result of lastSeptember"s 31 pct devaluation of the rupiah because of a risein domestic demand.    The report said that Indonesia"s overall economicperformance in calendar 1986 was about zero or even a slightnegative growth rate, the lowest rate of growth since themid-1960s. It compares with 1.9 pct growth in 1985 and 6.7 pctin 1984.    The dramatic fall in oil prices last year was responsiblefor the slump. REUTER
COFFEE QUOTA TALKS CONTINUE, NO ACCORD SEEN LIKELY The International Coffee Organization(ICO ) council talks on reintroducing export quotas continuedwith an extended session lasting late into Sunday night, butdelegates said prospects for an accord between producers andconsumers were diminishing by the minute.    The special meeting, called to stop the prolonged slide incoffee prices, was likely to adjourn sometime tonight withoutagreement, delegates said.    The council is expected to agree to reconvene either withinthe next six weeks or in September, they said.    The talks foundered on Sunday afternoon when it becameapparent consumers and producers could not compromise on theformula for calculating any future quota system, delegatessaid.    Coffee export quotas were suspended a year ago when pricessoared in response to a drought which cut Brazil's crop bynearly two-thirds. Brazil is the world's largest coffeeproducer and exporter. REUTER
INDONESIAN TEA, COCOA EXPORTS SEEN UP, COFFEE DOWN Indonesia's exports of tea and cocoawill continue to rise in calendar 1987 but coffee exports areforecast to dip slightly in 1987/88 (April-March) as thegovernment tries to improve quality, the U.S. Embassy said.    The embassy's annual report on Indonesian agricultureforecast coffee output in 1986/87 would be 5.77 mln bags of 60kilograms each. That is slightly less than the 5.8 mln bagsproduced in 1985/86.    In 1987/88 coffee production is forecast to rise again to5.8 mln bags, but exports to dip to 4.8 mln from around 5.0 mlnin 1986/87. Exports in 1985/86 were 4.67 mln bags.    The embassy report says coffee stocks will rise to 1.3 mlntonnes in 1987/88 from 1.15 mln in 1986/87. It bases this on afall in exports as a result of the "probable" re-introduction ofquotas by the International Coffee Organisation.    Cocoa production and exports are forecast to rise steadilyas the government develops cocoa plantations. Production ofcocoa in Indonesia increased to 32,378 tonnes in calendar 1985from 10,284 tonnes in 1980. It is projected by the governmentto rise to more than 50,000 tonnes by 1988.    Production in 1986 is estimated by the embassy at 35,000tonnes, as against 38,000 tonnes in 1987.    The report forecasts cocoa exports to rise to 35,000 tonnesthis year, from 33,000 tonnes in 1986 and 31,000 in 1985.    The Netherlands is at present the biggest importer ofIndonesian cocoa beans.    The report forecasts that in calendar 1987, Indonesia's CTC(crushed, torn and curled) tea exports will increasesignificantly with the coming on stream of at least eight newCTC processing plants.    Indonesia plans to diversify its tea products by producingmore CTC tea, the main component of tea bags.    Production of black and green teas is forecast in theembassy report to rise to 125,000 tonnes in calendar 1987 from123,000 tonnes in 1986.    Exports of these teas are likely to rise to 95,000 tonnesin 1987 from 85,000 in 1986 and around 90,000 in 1985.    The embassy noted the ministry of trade tightened qualitycontrols on tea in October 1986 in an effort to become morecompetititve in the world market. REUTER
ICO TALKS ON COFFEE QUOTAS TO RESUME AT NOON Talks on coffee export quotas at theInternational Coffee Organization (ICO) special council sessionwill resume at noon gmt today, following a last minute decisiontaken early this morning to extend the meeting 24 hours, ICOofficials said.    An 18 member contact group will meet at midday to examinenew ideas, and the full council is to convene at 1900gmt, theysaid.    The extension resulted from a last ditch effort by Colombiato salvage the talks, which by late yesterday looked perilouslyclose to ending without agreement on quotas, delegates said. REUTER
COFFEE QUOTA TALKS CONTINUE BUT NO AGREEMENT YET Coffee quota talks at the InternationalCoffee Organization council meeting here continued thisafternoon, but producers and consumers still had not reachedcommon ground on the key issue of how to estimate exportquotas, delegates said.    The 54 member contact group was examining a Colombianproposal to resume quotas April 1 under the ad hoc system usedhistorically, with a pledge to meet again in September todiscuss how quotas would be worked out in the future, theysaid.    Delegates would not speculate on the prospects foragreement at this time.    "Anything could happen," one delegate said. Reuter
ICO QUOTA TALKS CONTINUE, OUTCOME HARD TO GAUGE Talks at the extended special meeting ofthe International Coffee Organization (ICO) on thereintroduction of export quotas continued, but chances ofsuccess were still almost impossible to gauge, delegates said.    Producer delegates were meeting to examine a Colombianproposal to resume historical quotas from April 1 to September,with a promise to define specific new criteria by which a newquota system would be calculated in September for the new cropyear, they said.    Opinions among delegates over the potential for reaching aquota agreement varied widely.    Some consumers said the mood of the meeting seemed slightlymore optimistic. But Brazil's unwillingness to concede any ofits traditional 30.55 pct of its export market share lookslikely to preclude any accord, other delegates said.    No fresh proposals other than the Colombian initiative hadbeen tabled formally today, delegates said.    A full council meeting was set for 1900 hours for aprogress report, delegates said. Reuter
SENIOR DELEGATES PESSIMISTIC ON ICO TALKS Efforts to break an impasse betweencoffee exporting and importing countries over regulating theworld coffee market in the face of falling prices appear tohave failed, senior delegates said after a contact groupmeeting. The full ICO council is due to meet this evening.    President of the Brazilian Coffee Institute (IBC) JorioDauster told Reuters after the contact group meeting there hadbeen no agreement on quotas as consumers had tried to dictatemarket shares rather than negotiate them.    Dauster said there are no plans yet to renew negotiationsat a later date. Reuter
ICO COUNCIL ENDS IN FAILURE TO AGREE QUOTAS A special meeting of the InternationalCoffee Organization (ICO) council failed to agree on how to setcoffee export quotas, ICO delegates said.    Producers and consumers could not find common ground on theissue of quota distribution in eight days of arduous, oftenheated talks, delegates said.    Export quotas -- the major device of the InternationalCoffee Agreement to stabilise prices -- were suspended a yearago after coffee prices soared in reaction to a drought inBrazil which cut its output by two thirds.    Delegates and industry representatives predicted coffeeprices could plummet more than 100 stg a tonne to new four yearlows tomorrow in response to the results of the meeting. Reuter
COFFEE TRADERS EXPECT SELLOFF AFTER ICO TALKS FAIL The failure of the International CoffeeOrganization (ICO) to reach agreement on coffee export quotascould trigger a massive selloff in London coffee futures of atleast 100 stg per tonne today, coffee trade sources said.    Prices could easily drop to as low as 1.00 dlr or even 80cents a lb this year from around 1.25 dlrs now, they said.    A special meeting between importing and exporting countriesended in a deadlock late yesterday after eight days of talksover how to set the quotas. No further meeting to discussquotas was set, delegates said.    Quotas, the major device used to stabilize prices under theInternational Coffee Agreement, were suspended a year ago afterprices soared following a damaging drought in Brazil.    With no propects for quotas in sight, heavy producerselling initially and a price war among commercial coffeeroasting companies will ensue, the trade sources predicted.    Lower prices are sure to trickle down to the supermarketshelf this spring, coffee dealers said.    The U.S. And Brazil, the largest coffee importer andexporter respectively, each laid the blame on the other for thebreakdown of the talks.    Jon Rosenbaum, U.S. Assistant trade representative anddelegate to the talks, said in a statement after the counciladjourned, "A majority of producers, led by Brazil, were notprepared to negotiate a new distribution based on objectivecriteria.    "We want to insure that countries receive export quotasbased on their ability to supply the market, instead of theirpolitical influence in the ICO."    Brazilian Coffee Institute (IBC) President Jorio Daustercountered, "Negotiations failed because consumers tried todictate quotas, not negotiate them."    Previously, quotas were determined by historical amountsexported, which gave Brazil a 30 pct share of a global marketof about 58 mln 60-kilo bags. A majority of producers wantedquotas to continue under this basic scheme.    But most consumers and a maverick group of eight producersproposed carving up the export market on the basis ofexportable production and stocks, which would reduce Brazil'sshare to 28.8 pct.    Consumer delegates said this method would reflect changesin many countries' export capabilities and make coffee morereadily available to consumers when they need it.    A last-minute attempt by Colombia, the second largestexporter, to rescue the talks with a compromise interimproposal could not bring the two sides together.    Delegates speculated Brazil's financial problems,illustrated by its recent suspension of interest payments onbank debt, have increased political pressure on the country toprotect its coffee export earnings.    Developing coffee-producing countries that depend heavilyon coffee earnings, particularly some African nations andColombia, are likely to be hurt the most by the ICO's failureto agree quotas, analysts said.    The expected drop in prices could result in losses of asmuch as three billion dlrs in a year, producer delegatesforecast.    The ICO executive board will meet March 31, but the fullcouncil is not due to meet again until September, delegatessaid. REUTER
COFFEE PRICE FALL SHORT TERM - DUTCH ROASTERS This morning's sharp decline in coffeeprices, following the breakdown late last night of negotiationsin London to reintroduce International Coffee Organization,ICO, quotas, will be short-lived, Dutch roasters said.    "The fall is a technical and emotional reaction to thefailure to agree on reintroduction of ICO export quotas, but itwill not be long before reality reasserts itself and pricesrise again," a spokesman for one of the major Dutch roasterssaid.    "The fact is that while there are ample supplies of coffeeavailable at present, there is a shortage of quality," he said.    "Average prices fell to around 110 cents a lb following thenews of the breakdown but we expect them to move back again toaround 120 cents within a few weeks," the roaster added.    Dutch Coffee Roasters' Association secretary Jan de Vriessaid although the roasters were disappointed at the failure ofconsumer and producer ICO representatives to agree on quotareintroduction, it was equally important that quotas bereallocated on a more equitable basis.    "There is no absolute need for quotas at this moment becausethe market is well balanced and we must not lose thisopportunity to renegotiate the coffee agreement," he said.    "There is still a lot of work to be done on a number ofclauses of the International Coffee Agreement and we would notwelcome quota reintroduction until we have a completerenegotiation," de Vries added.    With this in mind, and with Dutch roasters claiming to havefairly good forward cover, the buying strategy for theforeseeable future would probably be to buy coffee on ahand-to-mouth basis and on a sliding scale when market priceswere below 120 cents a lb, roasters said. Reuter
KENYAN ECONOMY FACES PROBLEMS, PRESIDENT SAYS The Kenyan economy is heading fordifficult times after a boom last year, and the country musttighten its belt to prevent the balance of payments swingingtoo far into deficit, President Daniel Arap Moi said.    In a speech at the state opening of parliament, Moi saidhigh coffee prices and cheap oil in 1986 led to economic growthof five pct, compared with 4.1 pct in 1985.    The same factors produced a two billion shilling balance ofpayments surplus and inflation fell to 5.6 pct from 10.7 pct in1985, he added.    "But both these factors are no longer in our favour ... As aresult, we cannot expect an increase in foreign exchangereserves during the year," he said.    The price of coffee, Kenya's main source of foreignexchange, fell in London today to about 94 cents a pound from apeak of 2.14 dlrs in January 1986.    Crude oil, which early last year slipped below 10 dlrs abarrel, has since crept back to over 18 dlrs.    Moi said the price changes, coupled with a general declinein the flow of capital from the rest of the world, made it moredifficult to finance the government's budget deficit.    Kenya was already spending over 27 pct of its budget onservicing its debts and last year it was a net exporter ofcapital for the first time in its history, he added.    "This is a clear indication that we are entering a difficultphase as regards our external debts, and it is imperative thatwe raise the rate of domestic savings and rely less on foreignsources to finance our development," he said.    "It will be necessary to maintain strict discipline onexpenditure ... And members of this house will have to take thelead in encouraging wananchi (ordinary people) to be morefrugal in satisfying immediate needs," the president added. REUTER
ZIMBABWE COFFEE OUTPUT SET TO RISE Zimbabwean coffee output will reach13,000 tonnes this year, up on just over 11,000 tonnes producedin 1986, the Commercial Coffee Growers Association said.    Administrative Executive Robin Taylor told the domesticnews agency ZIANA that Zimbabwe earned the equivalent of 33 mlnU.S. Dlrs from coffee exports last year. He would not say howmuch the country would earn in 1987.    Taylor said the 173 commercial coffee growers under hisassociation had increased production from 5,632 tonnes in 1980to more than 11,000 tonnes in l986. Reuter
COFFEE TALKS COLLAPSE EASES NEED FOR U.S. BILL The collapse of International CoffeeOrganization, ICO, talks on export quotas yesterday removes theimmediate need to reinstate U.S. legislation allowing thecustoms service to monitor coffee imports, analysts here said.    The Reagan administration proposed in trade legislationoffered Congress last month that authority to monitor coffeeimports be resumed. That authority lapsed in September 1986. Abill also was introduced by Rep. Frank Guarini (D-N.J.).    However, the failure of the ICO talks in London to reachagreement on export quotas means the U.S. legislation is notimmediately needed, one analyst said. Earlier supporters of thecoffee bill hoped it could be passed by Congress quickly.    "You're going to have a hard time convincing Congress (now)this is an urgent issue," the coffee analyst said. Reuter
COLOMBIA TRADERS SAY NEW COFFEE STRATEGY VITAL Coffee producing countries must quicklymap out a fresh common strategy following the failure of theInternational Coffee Organization, ICO, to reach agreement onexport quotas, Gilberto Arango, president of Colombia's privatecoffee exporters' association, said.    Arango told Reuters that the most intelligent thing nowwould be to seek a unifying stand from producers, includingBrazil, in order to map out a strategy to defend prices.    An ICO special meeting ended last night in London withexporting and consuming nations failing to agree on aresumption of export quotas, suspended one year ago afterprices soared following a prolonged drought in Brazil.    Arango said there would be no imminent catastrophe butpredicted that over the short term prices would undoubtedlyplummet.    However, he said the market should also take into accountevident factors such as Brazil's low stocks and the sale of thenear totality of the Central American crop.    Trade sources said Colombia's coffee was today quoted at1.14 dlrs a lb in New York, its second lowest price in the past10 years.    Cardenas said these countries apparently fail to understandthe true impact of such a failure for coffee producing nationsas well as for industrialized countries.    It is difficult to believe that while efforts are made tosolve the problem of the developing world's external debt,decisions are being taken which cut earnings used for repayingthose debts, he said.    "In Colombia's case, we watch with consternation that,while we try to effectively combat drug trafficking, countrieswhich support us in this fight seek to cut our jugular vein,"Cardenas said. Reuter
PERU COFFEE CROP UNAFFECTED BY RAINS Recent heavy rains have not affected thePeru coffee crop and producers are looking forward to a recordharvest, the president of one of Peru's four coffee cooperativegroups said.    Justo Marin Ludena, president of the Cafe Peru group ofcooperatives which accounts for about 20 pct of Peru's exports,told Reuters a harvest of up to 1,800,000 quintales (46 kilos)was expected this year. He said Peru exported 1,616,101quintales in the year to September 1986.    A spokesman for the Villa Rica cooperative said floodwaters last month had not reached coffee plantations, and thecrop was unaffected.    Floods in early February caused extensive damage in VillaRica, whose coffee cooperative exported 59,960 quintales lastyear, according to the state-controlled coffee organisation.    Marin said the rains would only affect the coffee crop ifthey continued through to next month, when harvesting starts.    He said Peruvian producers were hoping for an increase thisyear in the 1.3 pct export quota, about 913,000 quintales,assigned to them by the International Coffee Organisation, ICO.    He said Peru exported 1,381,009 quintales to ICO memberslast year with a value of around 230 mln dlrs, and another235,092 quintales, valued at around 35 mln dlrs, to non-ICOmembers. Reuter
COFFEE MAY FALL MORE BEFORE NEW QUOTA TALKS Coffee prices may have to fall even lowerto bring exporting and importing countries once more round thenegotiating table to discuss export quotas, ICO delegates andtraders said.    The failure last night of International CoffeeOrganization, ICO, producing and consuming countries to agreeexport quotas brought a sharp fall on international coffeefutures markets today with the London May price reaching a4-1/2 year low at one stage of 1,270 stg per tonne beforeending the day at 1,314 stg, down 184 stg from the previousclose.    The New York May price was down 15.59 at 108.00 cents a lb.    Pressure will now build up on producers returning from theICO talks to sell coffee which had been held back in the hopethe negotiations would establish quotas which would put a floorunder prices, some senior traders said.    The ICO 15 day average price stood at 114.66 cents a lb forMarch 2. This compares with a target range of 120 to 140 centsa lb under the system operating before quotas were suspended inFebruary last year following a sharp rise in internationalprices caused by drought damage to the Brazilian crop.    In a Reuter interview, Brazilian Coffee Institute, IBC,President Jorio Dauster urged producers not to panic and saidthey need to make hard commercial decisions. "If we have failedat the ICO, at least we have tried," Dauster said, adding "now itis time to go and sell coffee."    But Brazil is keeping its marketing options open. It plansto make an official estimate of the forthcoming crop nextmonth, Dauster said. It is too difficult to forecast now. Tradesources have put the crop at over 26 mln bags compared with aprevious crop of 11.2 mln. Brazil is defining details of publicselling tenders for coffee bought on London's futures marketlast year.    A basic condition will be that it does not go back to themarket "in one go" but is sold over a minimum of six months.    The breakdown of the ICO negotiations reflected a splitbetween producers and consumers on how to set the yardstick forfuture quotas. Consumers said "objective criteria" like averageexports and stocks should determine producer quota shares,Dauster said.    All elements of this proposal were open to negotiation butconsumers insisted they did not want a return to the "ad hoc" wayof settling export quotas by virtual horse trading amongstproducers whilst consumers waited in the corridors of the ICO.    Dauster said stocks and exports to ICO members andnon-members all need to be considered when setting quotas andthat Brazil would like to apply the coffee pact with a setratio of overall quota reflecting stock holdings.    It is a "simplistic misconception that Brazil can dictate"policy to other producers. While consumer countries are welcometo participate they cannot dictate quotas which are verydifficult to allocate as different "objective criteria" achievedifferent share-outs of quota, Dauster said.    Other delegates said there was more open talking at the ICOand at least differences were not hidden by a bad compromise.    Consumer delegates said they had not been prepared toaccept the producers' offer to abandon quotas if it provesimpossible to find an acceptable basis for them.    "We want the basis of quotas to reflect availability and toencourage stock holding as an alternative to a buffer stock ifsupplies are needed at a later stage," one delegate said.    Some consumers claimed producer support for the consumerargument was gaining momentum towards the end of the ICOsession but said it is uncertain whether this will now collapseand how much producers will sink their differences shouldprices fall further and remain depressed.    The ICO executive board meets here March 30 to April 1 butboth producer and consumer delegates said they doubt if realnegotiations will begin then. The board is due to meet inIndonesia in June with a full council scheduled for September.    More cynical traders said the pressure of market forces andpolitics in debt heavy Latin American producer countries couldbring ICO members back around the negotiating table sooner thanmany imagine. In that case quotas could come into force duringthe summer. But most delegates and traders said quotas beforeOctober are unlikely, while Brazil's Dauster noted the ICO hascontinued although there were no quotas from 1972 to 1980.    A clear difference between the pressures already being feltby importers and exporters was that consumers would have beenhappy to agree on a formula for future quotas even if it couldnot be imposed now. At least in that way they said they couldshow a direct relationship between quotas and availability.    In contrast producers wanted stop-gap quotas to plug theseemingly bottomless market and were prepared to allow these tolapse should lasting agreement not be found.    "Producers were offering us jam tomorrow but after theirfailure to discuss them last year promises were insufficientand we wanted a cast iron commitment now," one consumer said. Reuter
COFFEE TALKS FAILURE SEEN PRESSURING U.S. Failure of talks on re-establishingInternational Coffee Organization, ICO, coffee quotas last weekmay put political pressure on the United States, particularlythe State Department, to reassess its position, but the U.S. isunlikely to back away from its basic demand quotas be set by"objective criteria", U.S. officials said.    Jon Rosenbaum, assistant U.S. trade representative and headof Washington's delegation to the talks, told Reuters on hisreturn from London that the United States is willing to resumethe coffee negotiations as early as April if necessary.    Rosenbaum said the United States will be "flexible" indiscussing the method of establishing objective criteria andany transition to new quotas, but not on the basic aim ofestablishing an objective method of setting quotas.    At the ICO talks major consuming nations, led by the U.S.,proposed that future coffee export quota shares be calculatedby a formula incorporating a producer's recent exportableproduction and verified stocks, while large producers led byBrazil proposed maintaining the traditional ad hoc division ofshares. The consumer position would have in effect reduced themarket share of Brazil, by far the world's largest producer.    Rosenbaum said the administration would continue to supportlegislation now before Congress which would allow the U.S.customs service to monitor coffee imports, as a way to complywith any future coffee quotas.    He said the Reagan administration would be reviewing thecoffee policy situation following the collapse of the Londontalks, but "nobody is proposing we change our position."    However, other U.S. government officials involved in coffeepolicy said they are bracing for a diplomatic and coffee marketoffensive from producer countries, led by Brazil and Colombia,to soften the consumer position.    "Knowing that its next crop is fairly large, Brazil willkind of want to test the resolve of other producers andconsumers," said one U.S. official.    The U.S. official, who asked not to be identified, saidBrazil and Colombia may flood the coffee market in the next fewmonths in an effort to drive down prices and pressure othercountries, particularly the splinter group of small producerswho differed with the major producers in London.    This in turn could lead to urgent appeals from LatinAmerican countries, faced with mounting debt problems, to theU.S. State department, and to the National Security Council inthe White House, for an easing of the U.S. position, U.S.officials said.    The State department, a major player in setting U.S. coffeepolicy, may then face conflicting pressures, particularly frompolitically-sensitive U.S. allies in Central America, U.S.officials said.    El Salvador and Guatemala both backed Brazil and Colombiaat the London talks in resisting pressures for quotas based onobjective criteria. But the Dominican Republic and Costa Ricajoined the splinter group, which said it would agree toobjective criteria.    There is a strong feeling among some in the StateDepartment that the United States should continue to supportthe splinter group of producers who have taken thepolitically-risky step of opposing Brazil on the objectivecriteria question, U.S. officials said.    Within the consuming countries there also is expected to besome pressure to reassess positions.    In London, the U.S. was supported by the U.K., theNetherlands, West Germany, Japan, Australia and New Zealand onthe issue of objective criteria, U.S. officials said.    This bloc represented enough votes among consuming nationsto successfully prevent adoption of the producer proposals.    However, U.S. sources said West Germany's support was attimes qualified and there is some concern that the EuropeanCommunity could come under pressure to be more accommodative toproducers in future talks. France backed the Ivory Coast andother African producers during the talks.    A softening of the EC stance would make it more difficult,although not impossible, for the U.S. to block producer plans.    While political manuevering by small producers andconsuming countries will be important, U.S. officials said thekey to any future outcome will be Brazil's position.    U.S. officials blamed Brazil's intransigence for thefailure of the talks and said a more flexible position fromBrasilia would be the most important step toward agreement. Reuter
COLOMBIA BLASTS U.S. FOR COFFEE TALKS FAILURE Colombian finance minister Cesar Gaviriablamed an inflexible U.S. position for the failure of lastweek's International Coffee Organisation, ICO, talks on exportquotas.    "We understand that the U.S. Position was more inflexiblethan the one of Brazil, where current economic and politicalfactors make it difficult to adopt certain positions," Gaviriatold Reuters in an interview.    The U.S. and Brazil have each laid the blame on the otherfor the breakdown in the negotiations to re-introduce exportquotas after being extended through the weekend in London.    Gaviria stressed that Colombia tried to ensure a successfuloutcome of the London talks but he deplored that intransigentattitudes, both from producing and consuming nations, made itimpossible.    In a conversation later with local journalists, Gaviriasaid the U.S. attitude would have serious economic andpolitical consequences, not necessarily for a country likeColombia but certainly for other Latin American nations and forsome African countries.    He told Reuters that Colombia, because of the relativelyhigh level of its coffee stocks, would probably suffer less.    According to Gaviria, Colombia can hope to earn about 1,500mln dlrs this calendar year from coffee exports, whichtraditionally account for 55 pct of the country's total exportrevenue.    That estimate would represent a drop in revenues of 1,400mln dlrs from 1986.    Colombia, which held stockpiles of 10.5 mln bags at thestart of the current coffee year, exported a record 11.5 mlnbags in the 1985/86 coffee year ending last September 30. Reuter
COFFEE PRICE DROP NOT AFFECTING COLOMBIA'S DEBT the sharp fall in international coffeeprices will not affect colombia's external credit situation,finance minister cesar gaviria told reuters.    "our foreign debt is high, but we can pay, and I hope theforeign banking community will maintain its position toward us,"he said.    He said the current decline on world coffee markets was nottotally unexpected and would have no immediate bearing oncolombia's financial state, which he described as sound.    Gaviria said the decline in coffee prices could mean a lossof 1.5 billion dlrs in revenues for 1987.    The conservative party and the country's largest tradeunion called this week for the debt to be rescheduled followingthe price drop.    Colombia, the only major latin american country not to haverescheduled its external public debt, has a total foreign debtof 13.6 billion dlrs. Reuter
IVORY COAST SAYS COFFEE PRICE FALL SHORT-LIVED Ivory Coast today predicted that thepresent coffee price crash recorded after the collapse of therecent International Coffee Organisation (ICO) meeting inLondon would not last long.    Commenting on Monday's failure by producer and consumernations to agree on new export quotas needed to tighten anoversupplied coffee market, Ivorian Agriculture Minister DenisBra Kanon told reporters that traders would eventually beobliged to restore their positions.    "I am convinced the market is going to reverse by April," hetold a news conference here at his return from the failedLondon talks.    Robusta coffee beans for May delivery ended the day inLondon down about 50 sterling at 1,265 sterling a tonne, thelowest since 1982.    Bra Kanon estimated at at least 535 billion CFA francs(1.76 billion dlrs) the overall loss in revenues earned byIvory Coast from all its commodities exports this year if theslide on the world markets continues.    He disclosed that his country - the world's biggest cocoaproducer and the third largest for coffee -- would spearhead anAfrican initiative to reach a compromise formula by the end ofnext month.    Ivory Coast has been chosen by the Abidjan-basedInter-African Coffee Organisation (IACO) to speak on behalf ofthe continent's 25 producer nations at the London talks.    "An initiative from IACO is likely very soon," he saidwithout elaborating.    "Following the London collapse, we have immediately embarkedon a concertation course to avoid breaking an already fragilemarket," he said.    Questioned by journalists, the minister said PresidentFelix Houphouet-Boigny estimated for the moment that hisgovernment would not be forced to reduce the price guaranteedby the state to Ivorian coffee-growers for the current season.    Last year, the West African nation announced that thecoffee producer price would stay at 200 CFA francs (65 cents)per kilo.    Bra Kanon said that his country would strive to diversifyits agricultural production to avoid beeing too dependent fromworld market fluctuation.    A communique read over the state-run television tonightsaid that during today's weekly cabinet meeting, the veteranIvorian leader reaffirmed "his faith in Ivory Coast's bright(economic) future" despite the commodities price slide.    The Agriculture Minister also announced the governmentdecided to earmark a sum of 7.5 billion CFA francs (24.71 mlndlrs) to support the country's small farmers.    Financially-strapped Ivory Coast, long regarded as one ofAfrica's showpiece economies, is going through difficult timesfollowing the sharp slump in the world price of cocoa andcoffee.    Ivory Coast's real gross domestic product is expected togrow only one pct this year compared to five pct in 1986,according to a recent Finance Ministry estimate. Reuter
THAI COFFEE EXPORTS RISE IN 1986 Thai coffee exports rose to 22,068tonnes in 1986 from 20,430 a year earlier, the CustomsDepartment said. REUTER
CREDITOR BANKS MAY BUY INTO SINGAPORE COFFEE FIRM The nine creditor banks of theSingapore coffee trader <Teck Hock and Co (Pte) Ltd> arethinking of buying a controlling stake in the companythemselves, a creditor bank official said.    Since last December the banks have been allowing thecompany to postpone loan repayments while they try to find anoverseas commodity company to make an offer for the firm.    At least one company has expressed interest andnegotiations are not yet over, banking sources said.    However, the banks are now prepared to consider taking thestake if they find an investor willing to inject six to sevenmln dlrs in the company but not take control, the bankingsources said.    Teck Hock's financial adviser, Singapore InternationalMerchant Bankers Ltd (SIMBL), will work on the new proposalwith the creditor banks, they said.    Major holdings are likely to be held by the two largestcreditor banks, Standard Chartered Bank <STCH.L> andOversea-Chinese Banking Corp Ltd <OCBM.SI>, they added.    Teck Hock owes over 100 mln Singapore dlrs and the creditorbanks earlier this week agreed to let Teck Hock fufillprofitable contracts to help balance earlier losses.    The nine banks are Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp Ltd, UnitedOverseas Bank Ltd <UOBM.SI>, <Banque Paribas>, <Bangkok BankLtd,> <Citibank NA>, Standard Chartered Bank Ltd, Algemene BankNederland NV <ABNN.AS>, Banque Nationale De Paris <BNPP.PA> and<Chase Manhattan Bank NA.> REUTER
BRAZIL HAS NO SET COFFEE EXPORT TARGETS - IBC Brazil has no set target forits coffee exports following this week's breakdown ofInternational Coffee Organization talks on export quotas,President of the Brazilian Coffee Institute, IBC, Jorio Daustersaid.    He told a press conference Brazil now had to reconsider itsexport plans and that the 15.5 mln bag export figure which ithad proposed for itself earlier should no longer be taken asthe country's export target to ICO-member countries.    The 15.5 mln bag offer had been made on the assumption anagreement would bring stability to world markets, he added.    It had been a gesture to ease negotiations, but the lack ofan agreement leaves it no longer valid and exports could beabove or below 15.5 mln bags, he said.    Dauster said he would talk to producers, exporters andmarket analysts before taking any decision on export policy,but any future policy would be flexible and adjusted to marketconditions.    "We will not take any short-term decisions which might causemarkets to panic," Dauster added.    He said it would be a policy which shows Brazil has coffeeto sell and that it could do so without an ICO agreement.    "Brazil has coffee (to sell) and wants to show that it doesnot need an ICO agreement as a crutch," Dauster said.    Commenting on the breakdown of the talks, Dauster saidconsumer proposals would have implied a reduction of one to twomln bags in Brazil's export quotas.    "It was a proposal which would lead to a substantial lossfor Brazil and which would be difficult for the country torecover," he said.    The consumer proposal to base quotas on a six-year movingaverage of exportable production surpluses would lead tooverproduction as countries boosted output to win higherquotas, he said.    Dauster rejected reports which said Brazil's inflexibilityhad been the cause for the breakdown of talks, noting that itsstance had the backing of 85 pct of producing countries.    Close links would continue with these producers,particularly Colombia, Mexico and Francophone Africancountries, but Dauster said no joint marketing action wasenvisaged at present.    He also said Brazil currently had no plans to return to asystem of roaster buying contracts, although "no hypothesis hasbeen abandoned."    Dauster said he had not yet decided when registrations forMay shipment coffee will be opened.    He declined comment on whether the IBC will adopt a policyof opening registrations for up to six months in advance, assome exporters had suggested.    He noted export registrations for the first four months ofthe year totalled around 5.5 mln bags, more than half the 9.9mln exported in 1986 when drought reduced the crop to between11.2 mln and 12 mln bags.    He said that, although he had heard forecasts of 30 mlnbags for the coming crop, the IBC would not make any estimateuntil late April. Reuter
BRAZIL DEBT SEEN PARTNER TO HARD SELL TACTICS Brazil's recent announcement of asuspension in interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of foreigndebt gave the banking system the jitters and confirmed viewsamong many international economists and commodities analyststhat Brazil will continue to flex its trading muscles in 1987.    The developing world's most indebted nation is also itsmost prolific exporter of agricultural commodities such ascoffee and soybeans, and might maximize foreign exchangerevenue by selling hard on world markets, economists said.    "That sounds like a reasonable strategy. But there is noway they can trade their way out of this situation," AldoRoldan, Vice President for International Services at ChaseEconometrics, said.    Roldan told Reuters that Brazil not only had to tackle theproblems of satisfying domestic demand and competing on gluttedworld markets, but also had to work to make its position onforeign exchange markets more profitable.    "Domestic costs have increased (due to inflation) andexporters have not had the same offsetting movement in exchangerates," Roldan said.    The Chase economist also said commodities markets weredepressed and generally did not appear very promising for acountry like Brazil, where pure commodities account for some 50pct of exports and in 1986 had a total value of around 23billion dlrs.    But he added: "They are always pretty aggressive and theyhave good foreign marketing channels."    Analysts said a key factor in Brazilian trade will becoffee, and even without background pressure from foreigncreditors the world's largest producer was expected to hit themarket this year with a vengeance.    Negotiations between International Coffee Organization(ICO) members to re-establish producer export quotas broke upearlier this week with major producers and consumers accusingeach other of intransigence.    "Brazil would not tolerate a change in ICO regulations,which others wanted changed," one senior coffee dealer said.    The dealer, who declined to be named, said Brazil wanted topreserve its market share. At the end of the talks, he saidBrazil hinted it could sell more than anyone else and otherswould suffer.    Brazil will be an aggressive seller under any scenario butas yet there is no sign of unusually heavy Brazilian sales, thedealer said.    "If they do come into the market at this level it will golower and you could breach a dollar, ninety or eighty cents,"he said.    New York coffee futures for May delivery settled 2.29 centslower Thursday at 104.68 cents a lb, while more distantdeliveries fell the six-cent maximum trading limit.    President of the Brazilian Coffee Institute, Jorio Daustertold a press conference in Rio de Janeiro today that Brazil hasno set target for its coffee exports following the breakdown ofthe ICO talks on export quotas.    Many economists and analysts believe soybeans could be thefocus of possible stepped-up Brazilian marketing efforts. "Theywill be more aggressive this year than they have ever been,"according to Richard Loewy, analyst for Prudential-BacheSecurities Inc.    Loewy believes the foreign debt problem, a good crop, plusdifficulties with storage would help motivate selling of theBrazil soybean crop. "Brazilian farmers also need cash flow andthey can't afford to store the crops," he said.    The Chicago soybean complex has been nervous for some timeabout large South American crops developing under near idealconditions towards record yields.    "We are going to see a very rapid decline, earlier thanusual, this year in our (U.S.) exports," Loewy said.    Tommy Eshleman, economist for the American SoybeanAssociation (ASA), said this year's Brazilian soybean harvestcould total 18 mln tonnes, versus 13.7 mln last year.    Marketings will be very aggressive this summer when pricesare usually high relative to the rest of the year due to thevulnerability of the U.S. crop to bad growing weather.    Another incentive to sell might be trade anticipation of areduction in the U.S. government soybean loan rate, offered tofarmers who give crops as collateral, Eshleman said.    He said there has been some uncertainty this year about thesoybean loan rate, which acts as an effective floor for pricesby keeping supplies away from the free market. Farmers canforfeit their beans to the government rather than repay theloan.    "We're getting into a period when they (Brazil) arestarting to harvest and starting to export," Eshleman said. Buthe added it will be a while before U.S. exports fall to below10 mln bushels a week from around 20 mln bushels currently.    Jose Melicias from the research department of DrexelBurnham Lambert said Brazil would be trying to export as muchas it can this year because of its economic situation.    He said the debt situation was a major consideration. "TheBrazilian government also does not have enough money to pay forstorage," he added.    Asked if a return to an inflationary environment in Brazilwould make farmers inclined to hold onto crops, Melicias saidit would not make a big difference.    On other commodity markets, Brazil's selling impact may bemuted no matter its need to generate capital.    Brazil is faced with a poor 1986/87 sugar harvest, whichcould limit exports to the world market, analysts said. Thecountry may have oversold and be unable to honor exportcommitments, and this plus higher domestic demand caused byconsumer price subsidies on ethanol and refined sugar, willgive it little room to stretch exports, they said.    Brazil's other major crop, cocoa, is in its third year ofsurplus. "Cocoa consumption is basically flat and last year itfell, so I don't think they can start throwing out cocoa andfind many more markets for it," one analyst said.    "If they come out as aggressive sellers, the market wouldcollapse and they can't afford to do that," she added. Reuter
MEXICO SUSPENDS OVERSEAS COFFEE SALES Mexico has temporarily suspendedoverseas coffee sales due to falling prices triggered by thefailure of the International Coffee Organisation (ICO) meetingto agree a quota system at its latest meeting, the officialNotimex news agency said.    "We're just waiting a while for prices to improve," anunidentified Mexican trader told the agency.    Mexico has already sold 80 pct of its export coffeeproduced in the year to last September, the source said. Thecountry exports about 3.3 mln 60-kilo bags a year. Reuter
COSTA RICA OPTIMISTIC ABOUT REFORMING ICO Costa Rica's economy minister said hesees new hope for winning changes in the International CoffeeOrganisation system of export quotas.    Minister Luis Diego Escalante, who serves as president ofthe Costa Rican Coffee Institute, said he was hopeful becauseof the support offered Costa Rica and other smaller producing-nations by such major consumers as the United States, Britainand the Netherlands at last week's ICO meeting in london.    Escalante told a news conference here he "carried the weightof the negotiations" at the meeting by calling for larger exportquotas for the smaller coffee-growing nations.    Costa rica is insisting, Escalante said, on a new quotasystem based on a producing nation's real export capacity, onceit has satisfied internal demand.    "There are countries such as our own whose salespossibilities are close to or above 100 pct of their currentquotas," Escalante said.    At the same time, there are countries favoured by thecurrent system that have been assigned quotas far above theirexport potential, he said.    The current ICO quota system is "unfair and autocratic,"Escalante said.    Escalante attributed the nosedive in international coffeeprices over the last week to speculation rather than realmatters of supply and demand.    "Be careful," he warned, "there's not as much coffee in theworld as they say. What there is are bags of sawdust." Reuter
ICO QUOTA TALKS FAILURE PARALYSE HAMBURG MARKET The failure of International CoffeeOrganization talks on the reintroduction of quotas hasparalysed business on the Hamburg green coffee market in thepast week, trade sources said.    There was only sporadic activity for spot material, whichwas mainly requirement buying, they said, adding thatpre-registered coffees were no longer available.    They said they expected Brazil and Colombia to open exportregistrations for May shipment next week. However, thepresident of the Brazilian Coffee Institute, Jorio Dauster,said yesterday he had not yet decided when its registrationswould reopen. REUTER
COLOMBIA DENIES SELLING COFFEE BELOW MARKET Colombia denied having sold 440,000 60-kgbags of old crop coffee below current market prices to clientsin Europe and Asia.    A spokesman for the National Coffee Growers Federation,commenting on rumours which had circulated in market circles,said these were false. REUTER
UGANDA DISAPPOINTED BY COFFEE TALKS FAILURE Uganda, Africa's second largest coffeeproducer, was disappointed by the stalemate in recent coffeetalks in London, the chairman of the state-run Coffee MarketingBoard, CMB, said.    "This has not been good for coffee producers, more so in asituation where the prices dropped by 200 pounds per tonne ofrobusta coffee," J. Makumbi said when he returned from London onFriday.    Producers and consumers failed to agree on a quota formulato share the world's coffee production during InternationalCoffee Organisation, ICO, talks that ended last week.    Makumbi blamed the failure to set quotas, which weresuspended in Feburary last year, on Indonesian demands that itsquota be increased dramatically.    Uganda -- which earns about 400 mln dlrs annually fromcoffee exports, over 95 pct of its foreign exchange earnings --had sought to raise its ICO quota to 3.0 mln from 2.45 mln60-kilo bags, according to sources close to the CMB.    The CMB has estimated that production will rise 20 to 25pct in the current 1986/87 October-September season to overthree mln bags.    For several years Uganda had been unable to meet its ICOexport quota as rebel activity disrupted the coffee industry.    The Ugandan government depends on coffee export duties forabout 60 pct of its sales tax revenue and the industry employsover half of salaried manpower.    In Dar es Salaam, Tanzania's Agriculture and LivestockDevelopment Minister Paul Bomani said today Third Worldcountries would suffer from the failure of the London coffeetalks.    "It is only the middlemen who will benefit, he said.    Bomani called on the ICO to convene another meeting withintwo months, saying, "Once tempers have cooled and delegationshave had time to report back to their headquarters, commonsense will prevail." Reuter
BRAZILIAN COFFEE RAINFALL THE FOLLOWING RAINFALL WAS RECORDED INTHE AREAS OVER PAST 72 HOURS    PARANA STATE: UMUARAMA NIL, PARANAVAI 1.5 MILLIMETRES,LONDRINA NIL, MARINGA NIL.    SAO PAULO STATE: PRESIDENTE PRUDENTE O.6 MM, VOTUPORANGA12.0 MM, FRANCA 28.0 MM, CATANDUVA 10.0 MM, SAO CARLOS NIL, SAOSIMAO NIL. REUTER11:43/VB
LCE AND IPE ELECT FIRST TRADED OPTIONS MEMBERS The first 23 members have been elected tothe joint traded options facility of the London CommodityExchange (LCE) and the International Petroleum exchange (IPE),the exchanges said in a statement.    More firms have applied and the final tranche will beadmitted on April one and trading is planned to start in earlyJune on the new trading floor on Commodity Quay.    Traded options need a volatile and liquid futures base tosucceed and chairman of the joint formation committee JackPatterson said the existing LCE cocoa, coffee, sugar and IPEgas oil contracts should have no difficulty in providing this. Reuter
ALGERIA REGULATES USE OF COFFEE ADDITIVES The Algerian authorities have regulatedthe addition of chickpeas and barley used to make importedcoffee go further, the official APS news agency reported.    Taking advantage of scarcity, private roasters were sellingground coffee mixtures which were 75 pct non-coffee, it said.Since the beginning of March, the coffee market has beenstrictly regulated by the state food marketing monopoly Enapal.    Now a third of imported coffee will be sold as pure beansand two thirds as a ground mixture with a choice of 30 pctchickpeas or 30 pct barley. In March private dealers willhandle 2,050 tonnes of pure coffee and Enapal 6,050 tonnes ofmixtures. Reuter
BRAZIL COFFEE EXPORTS DISRUPTED BY STRIKE An 11-day-old strike byBrazilian seamen is affecting coffee shipments and could leadto a short term supply squeeze abroad, exporters said.    They could not quantify how much coffee has been delayedbut said at least 40 pct of coffee exports are carried byBrazilian ships and movement of foreign vessels has also beendisrupted by port congestion caused by the strike.    A series of labor disputes and bad weather has meantBrazil's coffee exports have been running at an average twoweeks behind schedule since the start of the year, one sourceadded.    By the end of February shipments had fallen 800,000 bagsbehind registrations, leaving around 2.4 mln bags to be shippedduring March. By March 10 only 230,000 bags had been shipped,the sources said.    Given Brazil's port loading capacity of around 100,000 bagsa day, even if normal operations were resumed immediately andnot interrupted by bad weather, some March registered coffeewill inevitably be shipped during April, they added. Reuter
INDONESIA PRESSING FOR COMPROMISE OVER COFFEE Indonesian coffee exporters arepreparing for a period of depressed prices while urging theirgovernment to lobby for a resolution of the deadlocked issue ofexport quotas, the chairman of the Association of IndonesianCoffee Exporters (AICE) told Reuters.    Dharyono Kertosastro said in an interview that Indonesia,the world's third largest producer, is trimming costs andimproving its marketing while seeking a compromise on quotas.    "But as long as Brazil sticks to its hardline position, wecan never bridge the gap," Dharyono said.    Indonesia was one of a group of eight producing countries,along with Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador,Honduras, India, Papua New Guinea and Peru, which proposed anew quota system at last month's failed International CoffeeOrganistion (ICO) talks in London.    Brazil, which would have had its quota reduced under theGroup of Eight scheme, blocked the proposal.    AICE officials are now hoping Colombia can use its contactswith Brazil to suggest a compromise.    Edward Muda, an AICE official who attended the ICOnegotiations, said Latin American members of the Group of Eightwere in contact with Colombia, the world's second largestproducer, but gave no details.    "Colombia has shown interest because they will gain from acompromise. Without one, they will suffer if the present marketstays like it is," Muda said.    He said Indonesia was in contact with consumers such as theU.S., Japan, the Netherlands, West Germany and Canada ahead ofan ICO executive board meeting scheduled for April 1.    Dharyono said the AICE will send delegations to the U.S.And Japan to brief Indonesian embassy officials there and pressthem to present Indonesia's case more firmly.    He urged the Indonesian government to do more to help thecountry's coffee traders through the ICO negotiations.    Muda said the Group of Eight had some common ground withthe big consumers because they agreed on the need for basingquotas on what he termed "realistic criteria."    The breakaway group believes the old quota system, whichgives Brazil a 30 pct share of the quota exports, does notreflect up-to-date supply and demand trends.    Brazil has stuck rigidly to its insistence that the oldsystem be applied.    Export quotas were suspended in February 1986 when marketprices surged because of the failure of the Brazilian crop.    Although prices have long since come down to a point whereexport controls could be reintroduced, producers and consumersat the 75-member ICO have not been able to agree on newguidelines. Brazil and the U.S., The largest consumer, are bothrefusing to alter their positions.    Dharyono said if new quotas are not agreed he believedIndonesia was well placed to survive low prices.    Indonesian farmers are trimming production costs and theAICE is improving its marketing system, Dharyono said.    Indonesia's coffee output in 1986/87, ending September 30,is expected to stagnate or fall slightly from last year's levelof 360,000 tonnes, he said.    He said stocks, at 90,000 tonnes, were about average forthe time of year. REUTER
JACOBS SUCHARD SEES 100,000 TONNE COCOA SURPLUS Jacobs Suchard AG expects a world cocoasurplus of around 100,000 tonnes in 1987 compared with a104,000 tonne surplus in 1986, Jens Sroka, head of commoditybuying, told a news conference.    The company expects prices to remain at around currentlevels despite the likelihood of agreement on buffer stockrules at the forthcoming London cocoa talks, and believesmarket intervention by the buffer stock manager would stabiliseprices.    Sroka said world coffee prices are expected to remain weakif any international coffee talks fail to produce agreement.    Sroka said stagnating consumption and slight overproductionwill continue to weigh on coffee prices and he forecast acontinued build-up in stocks.    The recent failure of the London coffee talks had surprisedmarket observers.    Unless reason prevails and the major producers return tothe conference table, the world coffee market will remain freeand the consequences for some producers dependant on coffee fortheir foreign exchange earnings would be catastrophic, Srokaadded. REUTER
NO NEAR TERM BRAZIL COFFEE MOVES EXPECTED The Brazilian Coffee Institute,IBC, is unlikely to disclose its future export policy until theend of next week at the earliest, trade sources said.    IBC president Jorio Dauster is meeting governmentministers, producers, exporters and market analysts to assessBrazil's position in the light of the failure of talks inLondon earlier this month to set new International CoffeeOrganization, ICO, export quotas.    "The failure of the talks means Brazil has got to rethinkits position completely," one Santos exporter said.    A meeting of the National Coffee Policy Council is set forThursday, March 19, and Dauster will almost certainly explainhis plan to members then before announcing any new measures.    Dauster told reporters on his return from London last weekthat no decisions would be made on exports before he had heldtalks with all sectors of the industry.    Exporters said Dauster is not under any great pressure tostart marketing coffee immediately. World prices have beenrecovering from the lows which followed the collapse of the ICOtalks and Brazil has sold a reasonable 5.5 mln bags of 60 kilosfor export in the first four months of this year.    The exporters said the key factor in the eventual openingof May and June export registrations will be the amount atwhich the contribution quota is set.    With little expectation of other sales incentive mechanismssuch as discounts, bonuses and price fall guarantees beingintroduced, the level of the quota will be decisive indetermining the competitiveness of Brazilian coffee on worldmarkets, they said.    They noted that on February 16, the eve of a plannedincrease in the quota, April registrations were opened andclosed after 1.68 mln bags were registered for export, a recordamount for a single day.    If May/June registrations are opened under similarconditions as before, Brazil would have no difficulty inselling at least 2.0 mln bags per month.    "The problem would be how to limit sales," one exporter said.    Brazil's present foreign trade and payments problems meanthere are pressures from the government to boost exports tomaximise foreign exchange earnings.    However, the sources said they expect the IBC to adopt amarketing strategy aimed at regaining Brazil's dominantposition as an exporter, but without causing a price war.    General opinion among exporters was that Brazil would planto export between 17 and 18 mln bags this year of which between1.5 and 2.0 mln would be to non-members of the ICO.    The 15.5 mln to 16 mln bags sold to members would be aroundthe figure Brazil had offered to ship if ICO quotas werereintroduced, although Dauster has said this offer expired withthe breakdown of talks.    With the prospects of a crop of at least 28 mln bags thisyear, Brazil has the capacity to export up to 20 mln bags aftermeeting local consumption of around 7.0 mln, the sources added.    However, the sources said Brazil is unlikely even toconsider exporting such quantities, as this would almostinevitably lead to a fall in world prices as Brazil tried toencroach on other producers' markets.    Maximum export earnings would be achieved by orderlymarketing of traditional amounts, thus re-establishing Brazil'smarket share after last year's unusually low exports of 9.9 mlnbags, enabling it to rebuild stocks and maintaining cordialrelations with the producer group which backed Brazil's stanceat the ICO talks, they added. Reuter
ICO BOARD MEETING DELAYED ONE DAY The International Coffee Organization(ICO) executive board meeting scheduled for the end of thismonth has been delayed by one day and will now run from March31 to April 2 and not March 30 to April 1, ICO officials said.    On March 30, the ICO ad hoc working group will meet toconsider management consultants Ernst &amp; Whinney's report on theICO secretariat. This report was commissioned late last year toreport on the administrative structure of the ICO. Reuter
COLOMBIA'S COFFEE MARKETING TO BE MORE FLEXIBLE Colombia intends to improve themarketing of its coffee with the accent on more flexibility onsetting export registration prices, finance minister CesarGaviria said.    Speaking to reporters after announcing a lower exportregistration price, or reintegro, of 1.10 dlr per lb ex-dockNew York, Gaviria said export mechanisms would be more agile.    "In the first stage, we decided not only to lower thereintegro but also to adopt a flexible policy of reintegro thatwill allow private exporters to participate more actively inColombia's coffee export policy," he said.    Traders said this means the export registration price willchange more often in a truer reflection of market trends.    Gaviria said the measures merely responded to new marketfactors since a return to a system of International CoffeeOrganisation (ICO) export quotas may not occur in the shortterm.    ICO talks last month in London failed to break a deadlockover re-introduction of export quotas, suspended in February1986.    Gaviria stressed that Colombia will not necessarily sufferfrom depressed prices because it can compensate lower priceswith increased volume.    "Colombia will continue to export its traditional amount ofcoffee, between 9.6 and 10 mln bags (of 60 kilos), and will doso without an agreement among producers," he said.    He ruled out a much higher volume of exports, or up to 13.5mln bags as mentioned in market circles, "because the idea isprecisely not to disrupt the market."    Colombia exported a record 11.5 mln bags in the 1985/86coffee year which ended last September 30.    Echoing Gaviria's words, Jorge Cardenas, manager of thenational coffee growers' federation, said Colombia sought toadapt its coffee marketing policy to circumstances.    "There is great expectation in the world for the policiesthat Brazil and Colombia will adopt. Ours is beginning toemerge and no agreement among producers is foreseeable in theimmediate future," he told journalists.    Trade sources in Rio today said Brazil's future exportpolicy was unlikely to be revealed before the end of next week.    Cardenas said a new ICO meeting could only take place whenproblems that hindered an agreement at the recent London talkshave been resolved.    Asked to comment on a Reuter report from Jakarta sayingIndonesia hoped Colombia could use its contacts with Brazil tosuggest a compromise on the quota issue, Cardenas said theBrazilian stand was quite clear.    He said Brazil's current quota "reflects the reality of themarket, allows for an orderly supply and satisfies demand," butadded more clarity was needed to assess the criteria thatdetermined it.    Cardenas said lows registered immediately after the failureof the London talks were triggered by a widespread fear amongdealers of an imminent price war and the belief that producerswould go out and sell their coffee as quickly as possible,which did not happen. Reuter
UGANDA RE-ROUTES COFFEE EXPORTS THROUGH KISUMU Long delays at the railway crossing onthe Kenyan border have led Uganda to re-route its coffeeexports through a ferry link with the Kenyan port of Kisumuacross Lake Victoria, Ugandan officials based in Kenya said.    Uganda has a direct rail link with the Kenyan port ofMombasa through which it conducts 70 pct of its external tradebut there is a chronic shortage of railway wagons, they said.    Customs at Kisumu take less than a day compared with two tothree at the Malaba rail border crossing, a Ugandan Railwaysofficial said. "Malaba is now handling only 10 pct of the tradeand all the coffee and oil goes through Kisumu," he said.    However, an accident recently damaged the wagon ferry whichplies between Kisumu and the Ugandan port of Jinja, causingbottlenecks on the lake route too.    Sources at the Coffee Marketing Board in Kampala reporteddelays in coffee export shipments last January due tocongestion on the lake ferries.    Coffee accounts for about 95 pct of Uganda's exportearnings and last November President Yoweri Museveni orderedall coffee shipments to be carried by rail in order to avoidthe higher costs of road haulage. Reuter
COLOMBIA OPENS APRIL/MAY COFFEE REGISTRATIONS Colombia opened coffee exportregistrations for April and May with the National CoffeeGrowers' Federation setting no limit, Gilberto Arango,president of the private exporters' association, said.    He told Reuters the decision not to put any limit respondedto "new factors" which have emerged from recent InternationalCoffee Organisation talks in London, where producers andconsumers failed to agree on a re-introduction of export quotas. Reuter
PATON REPORTS U.S. GREEN COFFEE ROASTINGS HIGHER U.S. roastings of green coffee in theweek ended March 7 were about 325,000 (60-kilo) bags, includingthat used for soluble production, compared with 290,000 bags inthe corresponding week of last year and about 315,000 bags inthe week ended February 28, George Gordon Paton and Co Increported.    It said cumulative roastings for calendar 1987 now total a3,295,000 bags, compared with 3,620,000 bags by this time lastyear. Reuter
COLOMBIA COFFEE EXPORTERS BELIEVE IN PRAGMATISM Private coffee exporters say Colombia'smore pragmatic coffee marketing policy will ensure that thecountry does not suffer excessively from current depressedprices and erratic market conditions.    Gilberto Arango, president of the exporters' association,said in an interview that Colombia, the world's second largestproducer, was in a position to withstand a prolonged absence ofInternational Coffee Organization (ICO) export quotas.    "Colombia is one of the countries that will benefit mostfrom this situation," he said.    Recent ICO talks in London failed to break a deadlock overre-introduction of export quotas, suspended in February 1986,and no date has been set for a new meeting on the issue.    Arango said that government measures adopted here lastweek, including a lower export registration price, indicated amajor change but also disclosed a welcome pragmatism.    "This is the start of a new era in Colombia because worldmarket conditions are also new," he said.    The government lowered local taxes for exporters and saidthe export registration price, or reintegro, will be changedmore often in order to closely reflect market trends.    Arango said an illustration of Colombia's new attitude wasthe decision on Friday to open export registrations for anunlimited amount.    But he added it did not imply the country would begin heavyselling of coffee.    "Our marketing policy is to sell without haste butconsistently. No targets for volume will be set. We will reactto market factors adequately and Colombia has no intention ofgiving its coffee away."    Colombia's past records should be the basis for upcomingexports, he said.    "We will certainly not export seven mln (60-kilo) bags butneither are we going to sell like mad. The trade knows fullwell what Colombia's export potential is," he said.    Colombia, with stockpiles standing at about 10 mln bags,exported a record 11.5 mln bags in the 1985/86 coffee yearwhich ended last September, and 11.3 mln in calendar 1986.    Arango did not want to commit himself on export predictionsbut said that output for the 1986/87 coffee year would notexceed 10.5 mln bags, compared with 12 mln forecast by theNational Coffee Growers' Federation and 12.5 mln by the U.S.Department of Agriculture, a figure he said was "ridiculous."    He said ageing plantations and rust, in particular in thenumber one producing province of Antioquia, meant output waslikely to fall but that nationwide estimates were rare andoscillated between 9.5 mln and 11.5 mln bags.    On the failure of the recent ICO talks, Arango saidColombia understandably felt frustrated at not having managedto force a compromise.    Jorge Cardenas, manager of the national federation and headof his nation's delegation in London, has blamed theintransigence of some big countries, without naming them.    However, Arango, like Colombian Finance Minister CesarGaviria last week, was more explicit and said the United Stateswould undoubtedly be under great political pressure in comingweeks to revise its policy.    "Washington will have to take into account that for manycountries, and some of its allies for instance in CentralAmerica, a sharp fall in coffee export revenue would havefar-reaching political and economic consequences."    Arango ruled out a fresh Colombian initiative on exportquotas saying producers had now to show a common resolve whichcould emerge from continuous contacts. Reuter
ETHIOPIA MINISTER SEES AFRICA DEBT PAYMENT PROBLEM Africa may have to follow Brazil inhalting foreign debt payments unless industrialised nations areprepared to be more flexible in trade and economic policy,Ethiopian trade minister Tesfay Dinka said.    Growing protectionism and declining commodity prices hadcaused a major deterioration in the export earnings of alldeveloping countries, he said in an opening speech to a meetingof African trade ministers in Addis Ababa.    Unless there was an early improvement in developingcountries' terms of trade "the only choice is to follow theroute that Brazil appears to have taken," Tesfay said.   The two-day meeting of delegates from 50 African states wascalled to work out a consensus ahead of the Group of 77ministerial meeting in Havana next month, when the developingcountries will debate their strategy in economic negotiationswith the West.    Tesfay accused the West of intransigence in the negotiationof recent commodity agreements.    The failure of the International Coffee Organisation toagree on the reintroduction of export quotas would mean "severalAfrican countries will not have the foreign exchange to importessential items," he said.    Coffee accounts for 60 pct of Ethiopian exports and therecent fall in world coffee prices has sharply reduced thecountry's foreign exchange earnings.    Adebayo Adedeji, the executive secretary of the U.N.Economic Commission for Africa, told the meeting that there wasan increasing net outflow of resources from Africa.    He blamed this on high interest rates, debt servicing andthe repatriation of profits by foreign investors.    Africa paid 13 billion dlrs to service its total foreigndebt last year and by 1990 annual service payments are expectedto rise to between 16 and 24 billion, Adedeji said.    He accused industrialised countries of failing to providemore resources to implement the U.N. Program for Africa'seconomic recovery and development, despite Africa's willingnessto raise two thirds of the capital from domestic sources.    The U.N. Program, approved last year, calls for 128 billiondlrs of economic investment in Africa over five years.    Western donors were asked to contribute 46 billion dlrs,with the rest being raised from local resources, but Adedejisaid the donors had not responded as hoped.   In view of this poor response, he said "it is possible thatby the year 2,000 nearly all African countries, except a few,will be categorised as least developed countries."    At present, 27 of Africa's 50-odd states are officiallylisted in this category. REUTER
N.Y. TRADERS SAY LATIN COFFEE PRODUCERS TO MEET Several traders and analysts here toldReuters Latin American coffee producers will meet this weekendin Managua, Nicaragua. The purpose, they said, is to review thebreakdown of International Coffee Organization quota talks lastmonth and try to formulate a unified position ahead of possiblefuture negotiations.    Two traders, who asked not to be named, said separatelyBrazil is expected to attend the meeting along with most or allof the Central American producers. The Central Americanattendees would include Costa Rica and Honduras, who were partof a minority producer group at the February talks that opposedBrazil's position, they said.    Another source, also requesting anonymity, said Colombiaprobably will not attend. Reuter
LATIN COFFEE MEETING TO BE HELD IN MANAGUA Representatives from Brazil, Colombia,Mexico and Nicaragua will meet here Friday to discuss theeconomic impact of falling coffee prices, a Nicaraguan officialannounced.    Vice-minister of foreign trade Bernardo Chamorro said thatparticipating in the meeting will be the heads of the coffeeassociations from the four countries.    He did not say if the meeting would continue beyond friday.    Chamorro said Nicaragua supports the establishment ofexport quotas in an effort to boost sagging world prices. Reuter
IBC PRESIDENT TO ATTEND MANAGUA COFFEE MEETING Brazilian Coffee Institute (IBC)president Jorio Dauster said he will attend a meeting inManagua this weekend.    He told Reuters by telephone from Brasilia that themeeting, involving Brazil, Colombia and Central American coffeeproducers, will be strictly to review the coffee marketsituation.    "The meeting is set for Saturday but could also continue onSunday," he said. Reuter
DROUGHT MAY REDUCE ZIMBABWE COFFEE OUTPUT -GROWERS Zimbabwe's projected coffee output of13,000 tonnes for 1987/88 could be reduced by drought, growerssaid.    The main coffee growing areas in eastern Zimbabwe havereceived little rain since April 1986 and the Coffee Growers'Association has begun a survey to assess the effects of thedrought, a spokesman said.    Zimbabwe exported 11,000 tonnes of coffee in 1986, mainlyto West Germany, Britain, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerlandand the United States. Reuter
MADAGASCAR COFFEE PRODUCTION SEEN LOWER IN 1987 Madagascar's available coffeeoutput is estimated at 80,725 tonnes this year, down from82,210 in 1986, due to a rundown of government agriculturalservices and the poor state of feeder roads in rural areas,Agriculture Ministry sources said.    This is after accounting for the loss of some 15,000 to20,000 tonnes due to the transport problems in the countryside,they said.    The sources did not give an estimate for exports in 1987,but they noted that shipments declined to 37,200 tonnes lastyear from 41,662 in 1985.    Low yields from the country's ageing coffee plantations andprevalence of the fungal disease Hemileia Vastatrix alsocontributed to the poor performance, the sources said.    They pointed out that 52 pct of Madagascar's coffee busheswere planted before 1930.    The sources said Madagascar was still a long way fromreaching the production target of 110,000 tonnes per year andthe export target of 63,000 tonnes outlined in the government's1986-1990 five-year plan.    In order to reverse the decline in coffee production, thegovernment has decided to plant 20,000 hectares withhigh-yielding arabica and canephora varieties, the sourcessaid.    The planting programme will begin this year and is aimed atproducing 300 to 360 kilos per hectare of beans with a lowcaffeine content.    The sources added that Madagascar's plan to export roastedcoffee has failed to take off due to packaging problems. Only650 tonnes of roasted coffee were exported last year. Reuter
CSCE PUTS ADDITIONAL MARGIN ON JULY COFFEE An additional margin of 1,000 dlrswill be required on all July 1987 delivery coffee "C" contractsas of the opening of trade Monday, March 23, the Coffee, Sugarand Cocoa Exchange, CSCE, said.    The March contract ends trading this week, making May andJuly the two "spot," or unlimited, contract months next week.    Members will then have to obtain a minimum 3,500 dlrs fornet long or net short positions in the May and July contracts,including a 2,500 original margin plus the additional 1,000 dlrspot charge. Reuter
LATIN COFFEE PRODUCERS SEEK ICO PRICE SUPPORT This weekend's meeting of LatinAmerican coffee producers here will call for the InternationalCoffee Organisation (ICO) to start talks aimed at firmingprices, Nicaraguan foreign trade minister Alejandro MartinezCuenca said.    He said those countries which had confirmed their presencewere Brazil, Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador, Costa Rica andPanama. Colombia had been invited but he did not know if itwould attend.    Martinez Cuenca told reporters central america alone hadlost some 700 mln dlrs through the weakness of world coffeeprices, partially caused by lack of an ICO quota agreement. Reuter
IBC PRESIDENT LEAVES FOR PRODUCER MEETING - IBC Jorio Dauster, president of theBrazilian Coffee Institute, IBC, left Brazil early today toattend a weekend meeting of Latin American coffee producers inManagua, an IBC official said.    Carlos Brasil, an adviser to the IBC president, saidDauster had left Rio de Janeiro for Managua early this morning.    There were rumours on the London coffee market earliertoday that Dauster would not attend the meeting. Reuter
COFFEE CONFERENCE ENDS WITH CALL TO CONTINUE TALKS A meeting of eight Latin Americancoffee producers ended with a call for continued talks aimed atarriving at an agreement to stabilize international prices.    A statement delivered by the conference's president,Nicaragua's External Trade Minister Alejandro Martinez Cuenca,said the object of future meetings would be to seeknegotiations leading to basic export quotas.    The meeting was attended by representatives from Brazil,Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Costa Rica andNicaragua. A Panamanian representative attended the meeting asan observer.    Representatives at the meeting said efforts would continueto be made to reach a regional consensus on export quotas whichcould be presented to the International Coffee Organization.    In opening the meeting, Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortegasaid the lack of an accord on export quotas was behind fallingcoffee prices, which he said have caused billions of dollars inlosses to countries in the region.    Jorio Dauster, president of the Brazilian Coffee Institute,said his government is committed to working towards anproducers accord in order to bring about higher prices. REUTER
INDONESIA'S NON-OIL EXPORTS DECLINE IN 1986 Indonesia's non-oil and gas exportsfell to 5.79 billion dlrs in calendar 1986 from 5.98 billion in1985, according to Bank Indonesia figures.    Coffee exports rose to 753 mln dlrs from 580 mln in 1985,but rubber shipments fell to 625 mln from 720 mln and tin to180.6 mln from 246 mln, weekly central bank figures show.    Indonesia hopes to boost its non-oil exports to make up foroil revenue lost because of lower prices. But the lower valueof commodities such as timber, rubber, palm oil and tea onworld markets has prevented this, despite a 31 pct devaluationof the rupiah against the dollar in September. REUTER
GOOD DEMAND FOR COLOMBIANS ON BREMEN MARKET The Bremen green coffee market attractedgood buying interest for Colombian coffee last week, whileBrazils were almost neglected, trade sources said.    Buyers were awaiting the opening of Brazil's exportregistrations for May shipment, which could affect prices forsimilar qualities, they said.    Colombia opened export registrations and good businessdeveloped with both the FNC and private shippers. Prices weresaid to have been very attractive, but details were notimmediately available.    Central Americans were sought for spot and afloat.    In the robusta sector nearby material was rather scarce,with turnover limited, the sources said.    The following offers were in the market at the end of lastweek, first or second hand, sellers' ideas for spot, afloat orprompt shipment in dlrs per 50 kilos fob equivalent, unlessstated (previous week's prices in brackets) -    Brazil unwashed German quals 100 (102), Colombia Excelso105 (110), Salvador SHG 110 (108), Nicaragua SHG 109 (same),Guatemala HB 111 (same), Costa Rica SHB 113 (112), Kenya AB FAQ142 (134), Tanzania AB FAQ 120 (same), Zaire K-5 105 (unq),Sumatra robusta EK-1 91 CIF (same). REUTER
CASH CRISIS HITS UGANDAN COFFEE BOARD Uganda's state-run Coffee MarketingBoard (CMB) has been suffering a cash crisis for the past twomonths due to a bottleneck in export shipments andadministrative delays in handling payments, trade sources said.    The CMB needs between 10 and 15 billion shillings (theequivalent of seven to 10 mln dlrs) to pay farmers andprocessors for coffee already delivered, but its present exportrevenue is insufficient to cover such expenditure, they said.    The board's cash crisis has serious implications for theeconomy as a whole, since coffee accounts for 95 pct ofUganda's total exports.    The CMB's financial difficulties first started in Januaryfollowing delays in rail-freighting export consignments ofcoffee to the ports of Mombasa, Dar es Salaam and Tanga.    These delays were caused by a shortage of railway wagons inUganda and bottlenecks on the ferries which transport Ugandanwagons across Lake Victoria to link up with the Kenyan andTanzanian railway systems, the sources said    Marketing Minister John Sebaana-Kizito publiclyacknowledged on February 19 that the CMB had run up arrears tolocal suppliers as a result of the shortage of transport formoving exports.    Sebaana-Kizito said at the time that the payments squeezewould be resolved in two weeks.    However, an accident to the rail ferry which plies betweenthe Ugandan lake port of Jinja and Kisumu in Kenya put it outof action between February 21 and March 15, causing freshdelays in cargo movements.    Coffee exports are especially sensitive to the disruptionof rail transport since president Yoweri Museveni has bannedtheir haulage by road in a drive to save transport costs.    Transport difficulties meant that by early February the CMBwas holding unsold coffee stocks of around 750,000 bags.    These stocks were equivalent to one quarter of Uganda'sexpected three mln 60-kilo bag 1986/87 (October-September)crop, the sources said.    According to the sources, the board's financial problemshave been aggravated by long delays in processing exportreceipts.    The coffee board was taking about eight weeks to recycleexport receipts into payments to local producers, whereasexport bills handled by local banks took half that time toprocess, they said.    The sources said the CMB's price structure had beenovertaken by Uganda's high inflation rate, unofficiallyestimated at about 200 pct, and that this was a furtherdisincentive to producers, already owed large arrears.    "The coffee pricing structure is wrong and three monthsbehind, the foreign exchange rate is unrealistic, and thesooner the so-called economic package is put in top gear, thebetter for the coffee industry and the economy as a whole," oneof the sources said.    The government is currently negotiating a package ofeconomic reforms with the World Bank and International MonetaryFund aimed at underpinning a renewed inflow of foreign aid tohelp Uganda's economic recovery after 15 years of politicalstrife. REUTER
COLOMBIA COFFEE REVENUE SHARPLY DOWN IN JAN/FEB Colombia's coffee export revenue dropped97 mln dlrs to 233.6 mln dlrs for the first two months of theyear against 330.9 mln dlrs in the similar period of 1986,central bank preliminary figures show.    Experts attributed the fall to lower world market pricesfollowing the failure to re-introduce international coffeeexport quotas, but they said Colombia could compensate the dropwith higher exports in calendar 1987.    Coffee export revenue for 1986 was 2.33 billion dlrs,according to the bank.    Jorge Cardenas, manager of the National Coffee Growers'Federation, last week estimated the recent drop of 30 cents alb in coffee prices would mean a net loss revenue of 457 mlndlrs for Colombia.    But he stressed that Colombia, with stockpiles of 10 mln(60-kg) bags, had the capacity to export more and would use arecently-introduced more flexible marketing policy to do so. Reuter
BRAZILIAN SEAMEN SAY 14,000 NOW BACK AT WORK About 14,000 of Brazil's 40,000seamen are now back at work after pay accords with 21 shippingcompanies but the rest are still on strike, a spokesman atstrike headquarters said today.    The seamen began a national stoppage on February 27.    The spokesman, talking by telephone from Rio de Janeiro,said 126 ships were strike-bound.    He added that because of resignations by many seamen therewere scarcely any crews left on 38 of these ships.    The seamen have settled in general for pay rises of 120 pctwith the 21 companies. Talks with the shipowners' associationSyndarma have been deadlocked over overtime.    While exports have been delayed by the strike, exporterssay the problems have been manageable.    "It hasn't been critical by any means," said a coffee traderin Santos, who noted that coffee was still moving on foreignships.    Economic analysts added, however, that any delay to exportsserved to aggravate Brazil's balance of payments crisis, whichlast month prompted the government to suspend interest paymentson 68 billion dlrs of commercial debt. Reuter
IBC PRESIDENT NOT TO ATTEND ICO EXECUTIVE BOARD Brazilian Coffee Institute (IBC)president Jorio Dauster said he will not attend the ICOexecutive board meeting and was surprised to hear that a reportof his absence had a slightly depressing effect on the New Yorkcoffee market today.    "I have too much work to accomplish here in Brazil at themoment. Besides the presence of the IBC president at an ICOexecutive board meeting is not a tradition," Dauster said.    Dauster said except in rare cases, Brazil has always sentits London-based representative to ICO board meetings.Ambassador Lindenberg Sette will attend the meeting, he said. Reuter
DAUSTER SAYS NO CHANGE IN BRAZIL'S COFFEE POLICY Brazil will not announce anychanges to its coffee export policy, Brazilian Coffee Institute(IBC) president Jorio Dauster said.    He told Reuters Brazil was not planning to modify theposition it held before the recent International CoffeeOrganisation meeting.    Earlier this month, talks in London to set new ICO exportquotas failed.    Commenting on the outcome of a coffee producers' meeting inManagua last weekend, Dauster said that they discussed nothinginvolving the market.    "In the meeting we agreed to work on behalf of the union ofthe producers in matters related to an international agreement,"Dauster said.    The Managua meeting was attended by representatives fromBrazil, Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Costa Rica,Nicaragua and Panama, the latter represented at the meetingmerely as an observer. Reuter
COFFEE, SUGAR AND COCOA EXCHANGE NAMES CHAIRMAN The New York Coffee, Sugar and CocoaExchange (CSCE) elected former first vice chairman GeraldClancy to a two-year term as chairman of the board of managers,replacing previous chairman Howard Katz.    Katz, chairman since 1985, will remain a board member.    Clancy currently serves on the Exchange board of managersas chairman of its appeals, executive, pension and politicalaction committees.    The CSCE also elected Charles Nastro, executive vicepresident of Shearson Lehman Bros, as first vice chairman.Anthony Maccia, vice president of Woodhouse, Drake and Carey,was named second vice chairman, and Clifford Evans, presidentof Demico Futures, was elected treasurer. Reuter
CARDENAS SEES NO MAJOR DECISIONS AT ICO MEETING Jorge Cardenas, manager of Colombia'scoffee growers' federation, said he did not believe anyimportant decisions would emerge from an upcoming meeting ofthe International Coffee Organization (ICO).    The ICO executive board is set to meet in London from March31 and could decide to call a special council session by theend of April to discuss export quotas.    "It's going to be a routine meeting, an update of what hasbeen happening in the market, but it's unlikely any majordecisions are taken," Cardenas told journalists.    Earlier this month, talks in London to re-introduce exportquotas, suspended in February 1986, ended in failure.    Colombian finance minister Cesar Gaviria, also talking toreporters at the end of the weekly National Coffee Committeemeeting, said the positions of Brazil and of the United Stateswere too far apart to allow a prompt agreement on quotas.    Brazil's coffee chief Jorio Dauster said yesterday Brazilwould not change its coffee policies.    Cardenas said the market situation was getting clearerbecause the trade knew the projected output and stockpilelevels of producers.    He said according to ICO statistics there was a shortfallof nine mln (60-kg) bags on the world market between October,the start of the coffee year, and February. Reuter
INDIA STEPS UP COUNTERTRADE DEALS TO CUT TRADE GAP India is searching for non-communistcountertrade partners to help it cut its trade deficit andconserve foreign exchange.    Wheat, tobacco, tea, coffee, jute, engineering andelectronic goods, as well as minerals including iron ore, areall on offer in return for crude oil, petroleum products,chemicals, steel and machinery, trade sources told Reuters.    Most of the impetus behind countertrade, which began in1984, comes from two state trading firms -- the State TradingCorp (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corp (MMTC).    "The two state trading corporations are free to use theirbuying power in respect to bulk commodities to promote Indianexports," a commerce ministry spokeswoman said, adding thatprivate firms are excluded from countertrading.    One trade source said India has targetted countries thatdepend on an Indian domestic market recently opened to foreignimports.    However, countertrade deals still make up only a small partof India's total trading and are likely to account for lessthan eight pct of the estimated 18.53 billion dlrs in tradeduring the nine months ended December, the sources said.    Countertrade accounted for just five pct of India's 25.65billion dlrs in trade during fiscal 1985/86 ended March,against almost nothing in 1984/85, official figures show.    However, the figures exclude exchanges with the EasternBloc paid in non-convertible Indian rupees, the sources said.    Total trade with the Soviet Union, involving swaps ofagricultural produce and textiles for Soviet arms and crudeoil, is estimated at 3.04 billion dlrs in fiscal 1986/87,against three billion in 1985/86.    Indian countertrade, which is being promoted mainly to helpnarrow the country's large trade deficit, is stillinsignificant compared with agreements reached by Indonesia,Venezuela and Brazil, the trade sources said.    The trade deficit, which hit an estimated record 6.96billion dlrs in 1985/86, is expected to decline to 5.6 billionin the current fiscal year.    But the push to include non-communist countries incountertrade is also due to other factors, including the slowgrowth of foreign reserves, a tight debt repayment schedule,shrinking aid and trade protectionism, businessmen said.    One source said India is showing more dynamism in promotingcountertrade deals than in the past, when the deals were madediscreetly because they break GATT rules. As a member of theGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), India cannotofficially support bartering.    The MMTC's recent countertrade deals include iron oreexports to Yugoslavia for steel structures and rails.    "MMTC's recent global tenders now include a clause thatpreference will be given to parties who accept payment in kindfor goods and services sold to India," a trade official said,adding that the policy remains flexible.    "We also take into account other factors such as prices atwhich the goods and services are offered to India," the tradeofficial said.    Early this year the commerce ministry quietly told foreigncompanies interested in selling aircraft, ships, drilling rigsand railway equipment to India that they stood a better chanceif they bought Indian goods or services in return, the tradesources said.    Illustrating the point, the official said a South Koreanfirm recently agreed to sell a drilling platform worth 40 mlndlrs to the state-run Oil and Natural Gas Commission.    In return, the South Koreans gave a verbal assurance to buyIndian goods worth 10 pct of the contract, against the 25 pctsought by New Delhi, the trade official said.    "We selected the Korean firm because its bid was the lowest,"he added.    Countertrade is helping African countries short of foreigncurrency to import goods. India has signed a trade protocol tobuy up to 15,000 tonnes of asbestos fibre from Zimbabwe inexchange for Indian goods, including jute bags and cars.    But despite India's new drive, countertrade has someinherent problems, they added.    "It is not always easy to meet the basic requirement thatthe trade should always be balanced," one trade source said. "Theother problem is it is often difficult to supply or buycommodities which the other party wants."    Another added, "Barter is also restrictive. We look upon itas a temporary measure to get over the current balance ofpayments difficulty.    "This is why countertrade has not been made a law in India.It does not even figure in the country's foreign trade policy." REUTER
INDIA STEPS UP COUNTERTRADE DEALS India is searching for non-communistcountertrade partners to help it cut its trade deficit andconserve foreign exchange.    Wheat, tobacco, tea, coffee, jute, engineering andelectronic goods, as well as minerals including iron ore, areall on offer in return for crude oil, petroleum products,chemicals, steel and machinery, trade sources told Reuters.    Most of the impetus behind countertrade, which began in1984, comes from two state trading firms -- the State TradingCorp (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corp (MMTC).    "The two state trading corporations are free to use theirbuying power in respect to bulk commodities to promote Indianexports," a commerce ministry spokeswoman said, adding thatprivate firms are excluded from countertrading.    One trade source said India has targetted countries thatdepend on an Indian domestic market recently opened to foreignimports. But countertrade deals still make up only a small partof India's total trading and are likely to account for lessthan eight pct of the estimated 18.53 billion dlrs in tradeduring the nine months ended December, the sources said.    Countertrade accounted for just five pct of India's 25.65billion dlrs in trade during fiscal 1985/86 ended March,against almost nothing in 1984/85, official figures show.    However, the figures exclude exchanges with the EasternBloc paid in non-convertible Indian rupees, the sources said.    Total trade with the Soviet Union, involving swaps ofagricultural produce and textiles for Soviet arms and crudeoil, is estimated at 3.04 billion dlrs in fiscal 1986/87. Reuter
COFFEE PRICES BAD NEWS FOR LATIN AMERICA -MINISTER A senior Nicaraguan official said arecent plunge in coffee prices was economically and politicallydisastrous for Latin American coffee-producing countries.    Nicaraguan Foreign Trade Minister Alejandro Martinez Cuencawas in London to brief International Coffee Organisation (ICO)executive board producer members after a meeting last weekendin Managua attended by eight Latin American coffee producers todiscuss the fall in coffee prices.    London coffee prices slid 300 stg per tonne in March, to1,279 stg from 1,580 stg at end-February.    Martinez told reporters the price fall since the ICO failedto agree export quotas on March 1 has had disastrous results onLatin America, both economically and politically.    He urged continued negotiations among coffee producers topave the way for a coffee export quota agreement by September.    Coffee export quotas, used to regulate coffee prices underan International Coffee Agreement, were suspended a year agowhen prices soared in response to a drought in Brazil.    Central American economic ministers have estimated theregion will lose 720 mln dlrs in foreign exchange earnings in1987 if coffee prices are not rescued by a quota arrangement,Martinez said.    He said ICO quota talks broke down last month becauseconsumer members lack the political will to fully supportcommodity agreements, and because consumers tried to dictate toproducers. REUTER
TOP QUALITIES SOUGHT ON HAMBURG COFFEE MARKET The green coffee market saw some demandfor high quality coffees in the past week, but business wasdescribed as generally unsatisfactory, trade sources said.    Especially sought were spot East African and Ethiopian andsome Brazils, they said, adding that some high grade robustasalso met some demand.    Sporadic business was noted in the second hand whichoffered Kenya coffee for May/June shipment up to 25 dlrs beloworigin levels.    Roasters are said to be well covered and are not expectedto enter the market for larger purchases in the near term. REUTER
U.S. SEES NO NEW COFFEE AGREEMENT TALKS SOON The United States does not expectthe executive board meeting of the International CoffeeOrganization, ICO, to call for a new round of negotiations onreinstating coffee quotas, a U.S. government official said.    The official, a member of the U.S. delegation to ICO talksearlier this year, said no new coffee agreement talks areexpected because there is no indication the negotiatingpositions of major producers and consumers have changed.    The U.S. still demands, as a condition of reimposition ofcoffee quotas, that "objective criteria" be set forestablishing quotas, said the U.S. official, who asked not tobe identified. Brazil, the major producer, insists on quotasbased on a traditional formula.    The U.S. remains open to a negotiating meeting but only ifsome new flexibility is apparent from major countries, theofficial said.    The ICO executive board meets tomorrow in London. Reuter
ICO BOARD SEEN UNLIKELY TO SET NEW COFFEE TALKS Chances that the International CoffeeOrganization, ICO, executive board meeting this week will agreeto resume negotiations on export quotas soon look remote, ICOdelegates and trade sources said.    ICO observers doubted Brazil or key consuming countries areready to give sufficient ground to convince the other side thatreopening negotiations again would be worthwhile, they said.    ICO talks on quotas last month broke down after eight dayswhen producers and consumers failed to reach agreement.     "Since we have not seen signs of change in other positions,it's difficult to see a positive outcome at this stage,"Brazilian delegate Lindenberg Sette said. But quotas must benegotiated sometime, he said.     The U.S. has indicated it is open to dialogue on quotasbut that Brazil must be flexible, rather than refuse to lowerits export share as it did in the last negotiations, delegatessaid.     At this week's March 31-April 2 meeting, the 16-member ICOboard is scheduled to discuss the current market situation, thereintroduction of quotas, verification of stocks and someadministrative matters, according to a draft agenda.    The fact that Brazilian Coffee Institute president JorioDauster, Assistant U.S. Trade Representative Jon Rosenbaum andchief Colombian delegate Jorge Cardenas are not attending themeeting has signalled to most market watchers that it will be anon-event as far as negotiating quotas is concerned.    "I would imagine there will be a lot of politicking amongproducers behind closed doors to work up some kind of proposalby September (the next scheduled council meeting)," BronwynCurtis of Landell Mills Commodities Studies said.    Traders and delegates said they have seen no sign that adate will be set for an earlier council meeting.    If the stalemate continues much longer, analysts expect thecoffee agreement will end up operating without quotas for theremainder of its life, to September 30, 1989.    When talks broke down, the U.S. and Brazil, the largestcoffee consumer and producer respectively, blamed one anotherfor sabotaging negotiations by refusing to compromise.    Brazil wanted to maintain the previous export quota shares,under which it was allocated 30 pct of world coffee exports,but consumers and a small group of producers pressed for sharesto be redistributed using "objective criteria," which would havethreatened Brazil's share.    At a recent meeting in Managua of Latin American producers,Costa Rica and Honduras said they were willing to put theirobjections as members of the group of eight ICO "dissident"producers aside, in order to stem the damaging decline inprices, Nicaraguan External Trade Minister Alejandro MartinezCuenca told reporters Saturday. He was in London to briefproducers on the Managua meeting.    However, other producers said they were not aware of thismove toward producer solidarity.    London coffee prices closed at 1,276 stg a tonne today,down from around 1,550 at the beginning of March. Reuter
IBC EXPECTED TO MAINTAIN COFFEE EXPORT FORMULA The Brazilian Coffee Institute,IBC, is expected to maintain its previous pricing system whenit reopens export registrations, probably later this week,exporters said.    They said IBC President Jorio Dauster is likely to leavethe basic formula for the minimum registration price unchangedbut raise the contribution quota to partially offset theeffects of cruzado devaluation since April registrations wereclosed in mid-February.    To fully compensate for devaluation the quota would have tobe around 28 dlrs per bag against 7.0 when registrations closed.    However, even a 21 dlr per bag rise in the contributionquota would make Brazil coffees uncompetitive on world markets,and an increase to around 15 dlrs a bag is more likely, theexporters said.    They added that Dauster is keen to raise the contributionquota as the Institute needs money to repay Central Governmnetfunds released to finance IBC purchases at the guaranteedproducer price.    Although a vote in the Monetary Council to provide morefunds for such purchases was deferred on technical grounds lastweek, funds are still being released for subsequent approval.    The sources said it is still unclear when registrationswill be reopened, although most expect it to be by the end ofthis week.    "Brazil owes it to its customers to make its intentionsknow. A country like Brazil cannot afford to be permanentlyclosed down," one exporter said.    However, before announcing its export policy the IBC islikely to wait to see if tomorrow's meeting of theInternational Coffee Organisation, ICO, executive board inLondon decides to call a full council meeting to discussreintroduction of export quotas, sources said.    There is also talk of the announcement this week of newmeasures to adjust the Brazilian economy, and the IBC could beawaiting clarification before making any move, the exporterssaid.    Another factor which could be delaying the opening ofregistrations is the current strike by bank workers which,while not affecting current shipments, could affectdocumentation and currency operations for new sales.    This would certainly be the case if the IBC was consideringobliging exporters to pay the contribution quota within two orthree days of registering a sale.
INDIA REDUCES EXPORT DUTY ON COFFEE India cut the export duty on coffeeto 330 rupees per 100 kg from 600 rupees, effective March 23, aCoffee Board official said.    The reduction should help India reach its coffee exporttarget of 90,000 tonnes in fiscal 1987/88 ending March 31,against provisionally estimated exports of 75,000 tonnes in1986/87 and an actual 99,254 tonnes in 1985/86, he said.    India is likely to press for international export quotas ata meeting of coffee producers in London this week because ofdepressed prices, he added.    The International Coffee Organisation, which representsboth consumers and producers, has so far failed to reachagreement on quotas.    India feels it will be useful to have quotas now becausethe slide in prices is unlikely to be halted immediately, hesaid.    Export quotas were suspended in February 1986 when marketprices surged after a drought devastated Brazil's coffee crop. REUTER
COMMODITY PACTS MORE ORIENTED TOWARDS MARKET Consuming countries, chastened by thecollapse of International Tin Council (ITC) price supportoperations in 1985, are insisting more than ever before thatcommodity pacts reflect the reality of the markets they areserving, a Reuter survey showed.    They want price ranges to be more responsive to markettrends - to avoid overstimulating output and straining theaccords' support operations - and intervention rules that avoidthe risk of exports by non-members undermining the pacts.Consumers and producers, mindful of ITC buffer stock losses,have also sought strict conditions for buffer operations.    Importers and some key exporting countries have shunned ageneralised approach to commodity price stabilisation andprefer to assess each commodity case by case, the surveyshowed.    The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) last week setprecise limits on what the Buffer Stock Manager (BSM) could dounder the new agreement. It imposed daily and weekly purchaselimits, prohibited the BSM from operating on futures marketsand stipulated, after consumer insistence, that up to 15 pct oftotal buffer stock purchases could be of non-member cocoa. Thiswill help prevent lower quality cocoa from Malaysia, theworld's fourth largest producer, undermining the market.    The cocoa pact establishes precise differentials the BufferStock Manager must use when purchasing varying grades.    A new International Natural Rubber Agreement (INRA) wasadopted earlier this month in Geneva. Importing and exportingcountries agreed several changes to make the reference pricemore responsive to market trends and they eliminated provisionsunder which the buffer stock could borrow from banks to financeoperations. Direct cash contributions from members will fundbuffer stock purchases. Bank financing was a particular featureof the failed ITC buffer stock which suffered losses runninginto hundreds of millions of sterling. Legal wrangles continue.    Recent International Coffee Organization (ICO) negotiationsin London exemplified the degree to which consumers insist thatagreements reflect market reality, commodity analysts said.    Consumers and a small group of producers argued that"objective criteria" should be used to define export quotashares, which would have meant a reduction in the share ofBrazil, the world's leading producer. Brazil wanted to maintainits previous quota share of 30 pct. The talks broke down and,although an ICO executive board meeting starts in London today,delegates and trade sources see chances of any near termnegotiations on export quota distribution as remote.    International agreements exist for sugar and wheat. Thesedo not have any economic clauses but provide a forum fordiscussions on possible future economic agreements, collectstatistics and draw up market analyses. Analysts saiddifferences between sugar exporting countries have held up anyprogress towards an accord with economic teeth, while sheercompetition between major exporters amid a world grain glutmilitate against any pact with economic provisions for wheat.    An alternative focus for commodity discussions areinternational study groups, made up of governments with advicefrom industry, such as those for lead and zinc and rubber.    The U.N. Common fund for commodities, with a planneddirectly contributed capital of 470 mln dlrs, has failed tobecome operational because neither the U.S. Nor the SovietUnion has ratified it. U.S. Officials in Washington said theU.S. Doubts the fund would be able to fulfil its objectives,citing the lack of widespread support.    U.S. Officials in Washington and Malaysian officials inKuala Lumpur expressed a policy of looking at each commoditypact case by case. U.S. Officials said it has been willing tostudy individual cases for economically sound, market-orientedcommodity accords balancing producer and consumer interests.    "We see little to be gained by attempting to increase theprice of a commodity whose long-term trend is downward,"official Administration policy states. The U.S. Currentlybelongs to only two international commodity agreements thathave economic clauses - the International Coffee Agreement(ICA) and INRA - but it is also a member of the sugar and wheatpacts.    The U.S. Did not join the International Cocoa Agreementbecause it considered its proposed price ranges unrealistic andnot designed to protect the interests of consuming countries,the State Department said. U.S. Officials singled out the INRAas the one commodity agreement that seems to be working.    U.S. Negotiators were successful in getting other membersof the pact to agree that the price review and adjustmentmechanism of the rubber agreement would accurately reflectmarket trends and also to continue the accord as a marketoriented agreement, U.S. Officials said.    Canadian officials in Ottawa also said they haveconsistently tried to look at membership of commodity pacts onthe merits of each case. Malaysian Primary Industries MinisterLim Keng Yaik told Reuters in Kuala Lumpur his country, theworld's top producer of rubber, tin and palm oil, decides itsparticipation in international commodity pacts case by case.    Malaysia is a member of the Association of Tin ProducingCountries (ATPC) which produce 65 pct of world tin. The ATPClaunched a plan to limit member tin exports to 96,000 tonnesfor a year from March to cut the tin surplus to 50,000 from70,000.    Economist in the West German Ministry of Agriculture anddelegate to cocoa, wheat and sugar agreements Peter Baron toldReuters in London, "Agreements with economic clauses tostabilise prices could function if fixed price ranges wereclose to market reality, if there was full participation byproducers and consumers, and if participants were prepared totake their obligations in the framework of the agreementseriously."    But Baron added, "No real sanctions are available for acountry that doesn't stick to its obligations...The Germanapproach is sceptical. We don't think agreements are the bestinstrument to help developing countries. They were never meantto be a vehicle for the transfer of resources and that is howdeveloping countries often interpret them."    Traditionally Britain has always been supportive ofcommodity agreements, reflecting its strong links with ThirdWorld producing countries. But recently demands for morestringent and justifiable pacts with emphasis placed on theneed for "intellectual honesty" and "objective criteria" havegrown.    British officials stress the need for commodity pacts to bea two way partnership in trade rather than a disguise for aid.    It is now seen as essential that any pacts involving directmarket participation through a buffer stock have a high degreeof transparency and do not contain the risk of open-endedborrowing that occurred in the tin pact, they said. U.K.Delegates talk of stabilisation and the need for prices toreflect changes in market structure and price trends ratherthan dictate what prices should be.    A Foreign Ministry official in Tokyo said Japan urges pricerealism in commodity pacts, adding high prices inflate supply.    A government spokesman in Paris said France is favourableto commodity pacts. France, a large consumer and producer ofsugar, favours a sugar pact as long as it reflects the realmarket situation, particularly regarding stocks.    Indonesia's Foreign Minister Mochtar Kusumaatmadja toldReuters in Jakarta: "These agreements can work as long as theproblems are cyclical..But it's another matter when there arestructural problems..But we are still committed to commodityagreements as an act of faith." Nicaraguan External TradeMinister Alejandro Martinez Cuenca said in London producerscannot afford not to give their backing to commodityagreements.    "The political will is not there on the part of someconsumers to make agreements work," Martinez Cuenca said.    The head of the economics department in the BrazilianForeign Ministry, Sebastiao do Rego Barros, told Reuters anagreement can be successful if it keeps a link with marketreality. If you have an agreement such as coffee with a systemof quotas, with a link between prices practised inside the pactand actual market prices, it can work. UNCTAD spokesman GrahamShanley said consuming countries realise steady export earningsenhance developing countries' ability to service debt and meangreater demand for industrialised nations' capital goods. REUTER
ICO BOARD PASSES OVER COFFEE QUOTA ISSUE Executive board members of theInternational Coffee Organization, ICO, passed over the issueof export quota negotiations at its regular meeting here,delegates said.    No move was made to reopen dialogue on export quotas and nofurther discussion on the issue is likely during the three-daytalks, they said.    Producer and consumer members of the ICO council failed toagree export quota shares in early March.    Neither Brazil, the largest producer, nor the U.S., thelargest consumer, are ready to be flexible, delegates said.    "The situation is unchanged," consumer spokesman Abraham VanOverbeeke told reporters. "As long as Brazil sticks to itsposition there will not be quotas -- there is no point inmeeting."    At the last council meeting, Brazil wanted to maintain itsprevious quota share of around 30 pct of the market. Consumersand a splinter group of eight producers favoured redistributionof export shares using "objective criteria," which would likelyhave reduced Brazil's share.    Brazilian delegate Lindenberg Sette said that, if quotanegotiations were to resume, the 1.0 mln bag shortfall Brazilwas willing to give up in early March if the producer proposalwas accepted would no longer be on the table.    "As we said from the start...No agreement, no one millionbags," he told Reuters.    Shortfalls of 200,000 bags offered by OAMCAF, the Africanand Malagasy Coffee Organization, and 20,000 bags offered byAngola, are also no longer valid, delegates said.    The closest the board came to discussing quotas was abriefing by the Guatemalan ICO delegate Rene Montes on a recentLatin American producers meeting in Managua, delegates said.    There, the producers expressed their political will tonegotiate basic quotas, particularly in the face of thedamaging drop in coffee prices after the council failed toagree quotas, Montes said.    The ICO board also reviewed export statistics and stockverification. They expected talks on stock verification to takeup the remainder of today's session, delegates said. Reuter
CSCE RESTRUCTURES COFFEE FUTURES DAILY LIMITS The Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchangehas expanded the normal daily trading limit in Coffee "C"contracts to 6.0 cents a lb, from the previous 4.0 cents,effective today, the CSCE said.    The new daily limits apply to all but the two nearbypositions, currently May and July, which trade without limits.    In addition, the 6.0 cent limit can be increased to 9.0cents a lb if the first two limited months both make limitmoves in the same direction for two consecutive sessions,according to the CSCE announcement.    Before the rule change today, the CSCE required two days oflimit moves in the first three restricted contracts beforeexpanding the daily trading limit.    Under new guidelines, if the first two restricteddeliveries move the 6.0 cent limit for two days the Exchangewill expand the limit. The expanded 9.0 cent limit will remainin effect until the settling prices on both of the first twolimited months has not moved by more than the normal 6.0 centlimit for other contracts in two successive trading sessions,the CSCE said. Reuter
GUATEMALA TO HOST OTHER MILDS COFFEE MEETING Guatemala will host a meeting of othermilds coffee producers probably in May to discuss basic exportquotas, the Guatemalan delegate to the International CoffeeOrganization, ICO, said.    No firm date has been set for the talks, Ambassador ReneMontes told reporters at the ICO executive board meeting here.    Producer countries Brazil, Colombia, and a member ofOAMCAF, the African and Malagasy Coffee Organization, may alsobe invited for consultation, he said.    ICO producers and consumers could not agree on how tocalculate export quota shares at a recent council meeting here.    Other milds coffee producers include Costa Rica, DominicanRepublic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, India,Mexico, Nicaragua, Papua New Guinea, and Peru. Reuter
CSCE ALTERS RULES ON TRADING LIMITS The Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchangeamended regulations governing expanded trading limits oncoffee, cocoa and sugar contracts to provide uniformity.    Effective today, the exchange will permit normal dailyprice limits in those commodities to expand whenever the firsttwo limited contract months move the limit in the samedirection for two consecutive sessions.    The normal daily limits will be reinstated once the firsttwo limited deliveries close by less than the normal limit fortwo successive trading days.    Previously exchange rules required the first three limitedmonths to move the limit in coffee and cocoa. It had requiredthe first two limited sugar deliveries to make such moves forthree consecutive sessions. reuter
SINGAPORE'S UIC TO BUY INTO TECK HOCK COFFEE FIRM Singapore's United Industrial Corp Ltd(UIC) has agreed in principle to inject 16 mln dlrs inconvertible loan stock into <Teck Hock and Co (Pte) Ltd>, acreditor bank official said.    UIC is likely to take a controlling stake in the troubledinternational coffee trading firm, but plans are not finalisedand negotiations will continue for another two weeks, he said.    Teck Hock's nine creditor banks have agreed to extend thecompany's loan repayment period for 10 years although apercentage of the new capital injection will be used to pay offpart of the debt.    Teck Hock owes more than 100 mln Singapore dlrs and sincelast December the banks have been allowing the company topostpone loan repayments while they try to find an investor.    The nine banks are Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp Ltd, UnitedOverseas Bank Ltd, Banque Paribas, Bangkok Bank Ltd, CitibankN.A., Standard Chartered Bank Ltd, Algemene Bank Nederland NV,Banque Nationale de Paris and Chase Manhattan Bank NA. REUTER
ICO COFFEE PRODUCERS TO DISCUSS MARKET SITUATION International Coffee Organization, ICO,producers will meet at 1500 GMT (0900 est) for a generaldiscussion of the market situation, producer spokesmanLindenberg Sette said.    The Brazilian delegate said several producers requested themeeting but Brazil was not among them. The ICO executiveboard's regular session this week has so far been confined toroutine matters, with no attempt by producers or consumers torevive export quota negotiations, delegates said.    Talks to restore quotas collapsed early last month whenproducers and consumers failed to resolve differences on howquotas should be allocated.    Producer delegates said there was no sense of urgency amongproducers to reopen quota talks with consumers, with mostcountries now prepared to wait for the ICO's annual Septembercouncil session to restart negotiations.    Members of the Inter-African Coffee Organization called fortoday's producer meeting to exchange views on the marketsituation, the producer delegates said.    The lack of a new debate on export quotas here this weekwas cited as the reason for renewed weakness in coffee pricesin London and New York futures, traders said.    Near May in London hit a five-year low this morning at1,220 stg, about 50 stg below last night's close, they said.    The executive board session looks set to end today,following a final session at 1600 GMT (1000 est) when aconsultancy report of the operation of the ICO will bepresented to producers and consumers, delegates added. Reuter
KENYAN MINISTER FORECASTS ECONOMIC EXPANSION Kenya's economy will continue to expandthis year and the government will do more to encourageinvestment by foreign firms and the local private sector,Planning Minister Robert Ouko said.    He told a news conference that the government would sooncreate a special bureau to expedite processing of investmentapplications by local and foreign investors.    Praising the role of multinational companies and localentrepreneurs in Kenya's economy, the minister promised tomaintain a close working contact with the private sector.    The economy grew by 5.3 pct last year, up from 4.1 pct in1985, Ouko said.    This was owing to high prices for the country's coffeeexports, low oil prices, low inflation and rising real incomes,he added.    "Despite rising petroleum prices and falling coffee prices,Kenya's economy is still expected to improve in 1987," theplanning minister said.    "High aggregate demand arising from low inflation, tradeliberalisation and disciplined financial management areexpected to increase output in the manufacturing sector," hesaid.    Agriculture would expand significantly if favourableweather continued and farmers responded to producer price risesannounced in February, the minister added.    Kenyan farmers are anxiously awaiting the arrival of thelong rainy season, which is due to start about now.    Ouko said the production of Kenya's main cash cropsincreased during the second half of last year.    Coffee deliveries to the state-run Coffee Board of Kenyarose 17 pct and tea deliveries rose four pct during the period,he said.    Ouko paid tribute to the private sector for itscontribution to the economy and promised to improve governmentcooperation with businessmen by maintaining regular contactwith them.    "I wish to pay tribute to the private sector for itscontribution to the economy in 1986 and challenge it tomaintain the same spirit this year ... The manufacturing sectorgrew by an estimated 5.8 pct in 1986, in line with the sameperiod the previous year," he said.    Ouko said the "one stop" bureau was intended to stimulateinvestment and cut the time and bureacracy currently involvedin processing applications.    The planning minister presented a review of the Kenyaneconomy during the second half of 1986 which showed inflationfalling to 4.3 pct from 10.2 a year earlier.    This was owing to higher agricultural production and theKenyan shilling's relative strength against other majorcurrencies, the report said.    The average exchange rate was 16.23 shillings per U.S. Dlrlast year, a fall of only 1.2 pct from 16.432 in 1985. The halfyearly report said exports increased about 30 pct inJuly-December 1986, while imports rose by only six pct duringthe period.    This gave Kenya an overall balance of payments surplus of780 mln Kenya shillings (48 mln dlrs) during the period,compared with a 1.4 billion shilling (87 mln dlr) deficit inthe second half of 1985, it said. REUTER
KENYAN MINISTER FORECASTS ECONOMIC EXPANSION Kenya's economy will continue to expandthis year and the government will do more to encourageinvestment by foreign firms and the local private sector,Planning Minister Robert Ouko said.    He told a news conference that the government would sooncreate a special bureau to expedite processing of investmentapplications by local and foreign investors.    Praising the role of multinational companies and localentrepreneurs in Kenya's economy, the minister promised tomaintain a close working contact with the private sector.    The economy grew by 5.3 pct last year, up from 4.1 pct in1985, Ouko said. This was owing to high prices for thecountry's coffee exports, low oil prices, low inflation andrising real incomes, he added.    "Despite rising petroleum prices and falling coffee prices,Kenya's economy is still expected to improve in 1987," theplanning minister said.    Agriculture would expand significantly if favourableweather continued and farmers responded to producer price risesannounced in February, the minister added.    Kenyan farmers are anxiously awaiting the arrival of thelong rainy season, which is due to start about now.    Ouko said the production of Kenya's main cash cropsincreased during the second half of last year.    Coffee deliveries to the state-run Coffee Board of Kenyarose 17 pct and tea deliveries rose four pct during the period,he said. Reuter
RESTORATION OF COFFEE EXPORT QUOTA Speculation the United States willoffer subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union appears to havereached a new level of intensity in the run-up to Secretary ofState George Shultz' visit later this month to Moscow.    Rumors of an impending deal have coursed through wheatmarkets since officials from the two countries held theircustomary, semi-annual grain talks in February. Moscow'sdecision at that time to reenter the U.S. corn marketstrengthened the perception of warming farm trade prospects.    Shultz is set to arrive in Moscow April 13. Reuter
ICO QUOTAS BEFORE OCTOBER UNLIKELY - DELEGATES The restoration of coffee export quotasbefore the end of the current 1986/87 coffee year (Oct 1/Sept30) now seems unlikely, given reluctance by InternationalCoffee Organization, ICO, producers and consumers to resumenegotiations on an interim quota accord, producer delegatestold reporters.    Consumers and most producers see no point in reopening thequota dialogue while Brazil's position remains unchanged, theysaid.    Brazil's refusal to accept a reduction in its previous 30pct share of the ICO's global export quota effectivelytorpedoed talks here last month aimed at restoring quotasbefore October, the delegates noted.    Disappointment at the lack of progress on quotas forcedcoffee futures in London and New York to new lows today,traders here said. Near May in New York fell below one dlr inearly trading at around 99.10 cents per pound, traders said.    Producer delegates said that while the possibility ofreimposing quotas before October remained on the ICO agenda, inpractice the idea had effectively been discarded.    The ICO's executive board session here this week has so farbarely touched on the quota debate, demonstrating generalunwillingness to revive talks while chances of success arestill remote, producer delegates said.    Some producers are in no hurry to see quotas restored,despite the price collapse seen since the failure of lastmonth's negotiations, they said.    "With Brazil's frost season approaching, who wants tonegotiate quotas," one leading producer delegate said.    Coffee prices normally rise during Brazil's frost season(mainly June-August) as dealers and roasters build up stocks asinsurance against possible severe frost damage to Brazil'scrop.    Many producers are more interested in working towardsreimposing quotas from October 1, based on a new system ofquota allocations valid until the International CoffeeAgreement expires in 1989, they said.    Guatemala has already proposed the "other oilds" producergroup should meet in the next two months to begin talks on howto allocate quota shares.    Producers still seem divided on how to overhaul the quotadistribution system, with some producer delegates reportinggrowing support for a radical reallocation, based on theprinciple of "objective criteria" favoured by consumers.    At last month's council session a splinter group of smallproducers backed consumer demands for new quota shares based onexportable production and stocks, while Brazil, Colombia andthe rest of the producers favoured leaving quota allocationsunchanged, except for some temporary adjustments.    A delegate from one of the eight said more producers nowsupported their cause.    The delegate said unless major producers like Brazil showedreadiness to negotiate new quota shares, prospects for a quotaaccord in October also looked bleak.    The U.S. and most other consumers are still determined tomake reimposition of quotas conditional on a redistribution ofquota shares based on "objective criteria."    ICO observers remained sceptical that Brazil would beprepared to accept a quota reduction when the ICO council meetsin September.    Brazil has adopted a tough stance with banks on externaldebt negotiations and is likely to be just as tough on coffee,they said.    They said Brazil's reluctance to open coffee exportregistrations might reflect fears this would provoke anotherprice slide and force an emergency ICO council session, whichwould most likely end in failure.    Producers met this afternoon to review the market situationbut had only a general discussion about how furthernegotiations should proceed, a producer delegate said.    Producers plan to hold consultations on quotas, and thenmay set a date for a formal producer meeting, but plans are notfixed, he said.    The ICO executive board reconvened at 1650 hours local timeto hear a report from consultants on ICO operations. The boardmeeting looks set to end today, a day earlier than scheduled,delegates said. Reuter
ICO TALKS SET TO END WITH NO QUOTA DEBATE The International Coffee Organizationexecutive board meeting will end tomorrow without any move toreopen the debate on restoring coffee export quotas, delegatessaid.    Talks have focused on administrative matters andverification of stocks in producer countries, they said.    Producers met briefly today to exchange views on the marketsituation but there seems little chance discussion on quotaswill begin much before the ICO's annual council session inSeptember, they said.    Delegates earlier thought the meeting would end tonight,but a further session is scheduled tomorrow at 1030 GMT tocomplete reports on stock verification.    Meantime, the executive board will meet May 12 to discusspossible action on the consultancy report on the ICO presentedtoday to the board, consumer delegates said. Reuter
NY ANALYSTS SEE COFFEE FUTURES FALLING FURTHER New York coffee futures prices willprobably fall to about 85 cents a lb in the next month before aconsolidation trend sets in, according to market analysts.    Yesterday, prices for the spot May contract fell below 1.00dlr a lb for the first time since August 1981 after theInternational Coffee Organization did not place new exportquota discussions on its current agenda.    Talks aimed at renegotiating ICO export quotas, after fiveyears of price-supporting agreements, broke down in February.    "Short-term, it looks like a definite test of 90 cents,perhaps 85 cents," said William O'Neill, coffee analyst withElders Futures. "But the additional downside may not be allthat great from current levels."    "At this price level the market is very vulnerable tobullish developments," O'Neill added. "Rather than us having amarket that will plummet we'll kind of see prices erode --probably to around 85 cents."    "I definitely see 90 cents and would not rule out a briefdrop to 85 cents," said Debra Tropp, a coffee analyst withPrudential Bache. But she said by June worries about a freezein Brazil growing areas will become more of a market factor,with prices likely to consolidate ahead of that time.    A trader at a major international trade house, who askednot to be named, said he expects a 10 cent drop near term butbelieves if Brazil opens May registrations at a relatively highexport price and requires a high contribution quota fromexporters the market could steady at the lower levels.    Longer term, he added, producer pressure will mount onBrazil to agree to consumers' export quota terms, and a newinternational agreement could come into force next fall.    Since the February talks broke down, the market has fallenfrom about 130.00 cents a lb to a low of 98.10 cents a lbtoday, as buyers and sellers sought to reassess supply anddemand.    Generally, analysts say, producers have a large buildup ofstocks, but U.S. roasters have drawn down supplies and willneed to do some buying soon.    "Most producing nations have just completed or are about tocomplete their annual harvests and exportable supplies are attheir seasonal peak. Exports remain behind year ago andwarehouses in producer nations are becoming increasinglyoverburdened," said Sandra Kaul, coffee analyst for ShearsonLehman, in that firm's forthcoming quarterly coffee report.    Kaul said producers' need to procure hard currency toservice foreign debt will put further pressure on them to sell,and "this should keep substantial pressure on exporters toundertake sales despite the drop in prices to six year lows."    Kaul believes the market will drop to 80 cents a lb beforeBrazil's frost season begins in June.    Accurate assessments of roaster demand are hard to come by,though analysts note the peak winter consumption period ispassed and demand usually slows this time of year.    Shearson's Kaul estimated U.S. roaster ending stocks as ofJanuary 31, including soluble and roasted, at 6.3 mln bagscompared with 6.9 mln at end-September 1986, a small drawdownfor the usually busy winter roasting season.    But Elders O'Neill said, "The roasters are not overstockedby any means."    Analysts said picking a bottom to the market is difficult,given the fact prices have fallen into uncharted territorybelow the long-term support at 1.00 dlr per lb, and severaltraders said the sidelines might be preferable for the shortterm. Reuter
COFFEE FUTURES AT SIX-YEAR LOW, UNDER 1 DLR/LB Coffee futures dipped further today andclosed below 1 dlr a pound for the first time in six years.    Coffee for delivery in May ended at 99.28 cents a pound onthe Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange, down 0.76 cent and thelowest price since August, 1981.     Prices have been falling steadily since the InternationalCoffee Organization failed in February to reach an agreementcontrolling exports by its members, and pressure was renewedthis week as the executive board of the organization met inLondon without reopening debate on its export quotas.    The executive board has limited its current discussions toadministrative matters and is set to adourn Thursday.    Burdensome supplies have pressed the market down from 1.30dlr a pound in February, when the organization's discussionsaimed at re-establishing export quotas broke down.    Sandra Kaul, a coffee analyst in New York with ShearsonLehman Brothers, said supplies currently are at their highpoint for the year because most producing nations have justcompleted their harvests.    In addition, she said, many of those nations are faced withserious debt and need to sell coffee to raise capital.    "This should keep substantial pressure on exporters toundertake sales despite the drop in prices," she said.    Further, U.S. demand could be sluggish because winter, theperiod of greatest consumption, is ending. Prices could fallanother 10 cents to 15 cnts a pound, analysts said.    Gold futures retreated from modest early gains and closedsteady while silver prices rallied on the Commodity Exchange inNew York.    The increase in U.S. banks' prime rates prompted concernabout renewed inflation, but the strength of the U.S. dollardiscouraged new buying.    "The market is getting mixed signals and it doesn't knowwhich way to go," one analyst said.    Gold futures retreated from modest early gains and closedsteady while silver prices rallied on the Commodity Exchange inNew York.    The increase in U.S. banks' prime rates prompted concernabout renewed inflation, but the strength of the U.S. dollardiscouraged new buying.    "The market is getting mixed signals and it doesn't knowwhich way to go," one analyst said. Reuter
COFFEE FUTURES UNDER DLR A POUND AT SIX-YEAR LOW Coffee futures dipped further and closedbelow one dlr a pound for the first time in six years.    Coffee for delivery in May ended at 99.28 cents a pound onthe New York Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange, down 0.76 centand the lowest price since August, 1981.     Prices have fallen steadily since the International CoffeeOrganization failed in February to reach an agreementcontrolling exports by its members, and pressure was renewedthis week as the executive board of the organization met inLondon without reopening debate on its export quotas.    The executive board has limited its current discussions toadministrative matters and is set to adourn Thursday.    Burdensome supplies have pressed the market down from 1.30dlrs a pound in February, when the organization's discussionsaimed at re-establishing export quotas broke down.    Sandra Kaul, a coffee analyst in New York with ShearsonLehman Brothers, said supplies currently are at their highpoint for the year because most producing nations have justcompleted their harvests.    In addition, she said, many of those nations are faced withserious debt and need to sell coffee to raise capital.    "This should keep substantial pressure on exporters toundertake sales despite the drop in prices," she said.    Further, U.S. demand could be sluggish because winter, theperiod of greatest consumption, is ending. Prices could fallanother 10 to 15 cents a pound, analysts said.    Gold futures retreated from modest early gains and closedsteady while silver prices rallied on the Commodity Exchange inNew York.    The increase in U.S. banks' prime rates prompted concernabout renewed inflation but the strength of the U.S. dollardiscouraged new buying.    "The market is getting mixed signals and it doesn't knowwhich way to go," one analyst said.    Cattle futures posted new highs on the Chicago MercantileExchange, while live hogs rallied from early losses and frozenpork bellies finished sharply lower.    Cattle prices continued to draw support from the winterstorm that swept the Plains states, leaving animals stranded insnowbound fields and feed lots in miserable condition.    Live hogs were pressured early by the AgricultureDepartment's report Tuesday that producers expanded theirbreeding herds more than the market expected last quarter.Prices recovered to keep pace with higher cash prices.    Frozen pork bellies fell sharply on the outlook for greaterproduction and closed with limit losses.    Soybean futures posted sharp gains on the Chicago Board ofTrade, while corn and wheat were lower.    Soybeans rallied in response to Tuesday's USDA report thatfarmers intend to plant 56.9 mln acres this year, down from61.5 mln planted last year.    Corn prices were pressured by the outlook for 67.6 mlnacres of corn, which is down from last year's 76.7 mln acres,but was larger than analysts expected. Reuter
THAI TRADERS OPPOSE REIMPOSITION OF COFFEE QUOTAS Thai coffee exporters said they hopedthe International Coffee Organisation (ICO) would not reimposeexport quotas even though this may lead to a further slump inworld prices.    Susin Suratanakaweekul, president of the Thai CoffeeExporters Association, told Reuters that Thailand obtainedlittle benefit from previous ICO quotas which represented onlyabout 30 pct of its total annual exports.    Thailand expects increased overall coffee export revenue ifthere are no restrictions on sales to current ICO members whooffer higher prices than non-members, he said.    The Customs Department said Thailand exported 21,404 tonnesof coffee last year, up from 20,602 in 1985.    Thai coffee production is projected to fall to about 25,000tonnes in the 1986/87 (Oct/Sept) season from 28,000 theprevious year.    However, a senior Commerce Ministry official said the Thaigovernment supports coffee producers' lobbying for reimposedICO quotas which, he said, would help lift world prices.    Somphol Kiatpaiboon, director general of the CommercialEconomics Department, said an absence of ICO quotas wouldencourage producers to rapidly release coffee on to the market,further depressing prices.    He said Indonesia is expected to export a substantialamount of coffee this month without such restrictions. REUTER
KENYAN COFFEE NEEDS RAIN, TRADERS SAY Kenya's late coffee crop is floweringwell, but the main coffee areas were generally dry and hot inthe week ended Wednesday, trade sources said.    "Machakos, Embu, Meru and Kirinyaga in eastern Kenya, andNyeri and Thika in central, have been dry in the past week. Thefarmers expect rain this week. If it does not fall output ofthe late (October-November-December) crop will decline sharply,"one source said.    He said that since most growers did not irrigate their cropthey could do nothing but wait for rain, the main factor whichdetermines Kenyan coffee production.    Two months ago the International Coffee Organization issueda forecast of Kenyan exportable coffee production in the1986/87 (Oct-Sept) season at 1.82 mln bags. REUTER
PRICES RISE AT BANGALORE COFFEE AUCTION Prices rose at the fortnightlyexport auction here on March 25 for sales of 1,907.1 tonnes ofcoffee from the 1986/87 and 1985/86 crops out of a totaloffering of 1,940.7 tonnes, the Coffee Board said.    Withdrawals amounted to 33.6 tonnes. The type and grade,quantity sold, average prices in rupees per 50 kilos, exclusiveof sales tax, with previous prices at the March 11 auction inbrackets -    1986/87 crop    Plantation "A" 592.2   1,284.50 (1,223.50)    Plantation "B" 74.1    1,095.50 (1,122.00)    Plantation "C"        208.2    1,019.00 (1,017.50)    Arabica Cherry "AB"    33.3      976.50  (NA)    Arabica Cherry "PB"    22.5      949.00  (NA)    Arabica Cherry "C"     58.2      889.50  (NA)    Robusta Cherry "AB"    90.9    1,256.00  (NA)    Robusta Cherry "PB"    43.8    1,039.50  (NA)    Robusta "PMT AB"       49.2    1,255.50  (NA)    Robusta "PMT PB"       13.5    1,200.00  (NA)    REP Bulk "A"           93.9    1,057.50 (908.50)    REP Bulk "B"          256.5    1,079.00 (930.00)    Robusta Cherry Bulk    40.2   1,082.50  (NA)    Robusta Cherry "C"      9.0     997.00  (NA)    Robusta Cherry "BBB"    9.6     700.00  (NA)    1985/86 crop    Arabica Cherry "AB"   123.3     961.00  (951.50)    Arabica Cherry "BBB"  160.8     635.50  (613.50)    Robusta Cherry "BBB"    4.2     735.00  (704.50)    Monsooned coffee    Monsooned Robusta "AA" 23.7   1,265.50  (NA) REUTER
SEASONAL STABILISATION SEEN FOR COFFEE PRICES The onset of cooler weather in Brazilduring the southern hemisphere winter is expected to have astabilising effect on a weak coffee market, West German tradesources said.    "The annual fear of frost in Brazil will probably grip themarket sometime this month until June or early July," one tradersaid.    The trade believes the International Coffee Organization(ICO) is unlikely to tackle the re-introduction of quotasbefore its September meeting and until then the market will notsee any unexpected sharp moves in either direction. REUTER
OTHER MILDS COFFEE PRODUCERS TO MEET MAY 4 Coffee producers belonging to the "OtherMilds" group will meet May 4 in Guatemala to discuss thepossibility of restoring export quotas, producer delegates toldreporters after the closing session of the International CoffeeOrganization, ICO, executive board meeting.    The "Other Milds" group, comprising Costa Rica, DominicanRepublic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, India,Mexico, Nicaragua, Papua New Guinea and Peru, might consultwith Brazil and Colombia on this meeting, but it was notcertain whether these two countries would attend, they said.    The ICO board meeting ended without moves to restartnegotiations on quotas, which broke down last month, producerdelegates said.    Producers are expected to hold other consultations in thecoming months on how to proceed with quota negotiations, but nodate for a full producer meeting has been mentioned, they said.    The board completed reports on stock verification and thenext regular board session will be in Indonesia June 1-5,delegates said. Reuter
COFFEE PRICES SET TO CONTINUE SLIDE - TRADERS Coffee prices look set to continuesliding in the near term, given the lack of progress towards anew International Coffee Organization (ICO) export quotaaccord, according to coffee traders and analysts.    Robusta coffee futures dipped sharply to 4-1/2 year lowsyesterday at 1,220 stg per tonne, basis the May position, whenthe lack of new debate on quotas at ICO talks here confirmedexpectations that efforts to restore quotas would not berevived at this stage, they said.    The 15-day ICO average composite price fell to 99.69 centsa lb for April 1, the lowest for 5-1/2 years.    Quotas will not now be renegotiated before the ICO's annualSeptember council session, and in the interim the Brazilianfrost season from June to August may prove the only bullishfactor to stem further price weakness, they said. Futuresbounced back from the lows today towards the previous tradingrange around 1,260/1,270 stg per tonne on May as the marketrecovered from yesterday's "confidence blip," one tradercommented.    But despite today's upturn, the overall trend is for lowerprices in the near future, one trade source said.    The market had become increasingly vulnerable toyesterday's shakeout, having held within a 1,250/1,350 stgsecond position trading range for 22 successive sessions, hesaid.    Technically the market is more likely to decline further asit absorbs today's brief rally. Steep declines towards the1,100/1,050 stg area could foster a "three figure mentality," andspeculators may elect to push for coffee prices below thepsychological 1,000 stg level, he added.    Some traders said today's upturn was in part due toBrazil's opening last night of May green coffee exportregistrations.     This had been widely anticipated by the market and came asno surprise, but it did remove some prevailing uncertainty andlight trade buying was seen this morning as a consequence.    However, the overall trend remains downwards and a test ofsupport at 1,200 stg should be expected soon, with the onlypossible supportive influence on the horizon being the approachof Brazil's frost season, they said.    Roasters are believed to be well covered, limitingactivities to modest hand-to-mouth purchases and generally nottaking up producer offers, they added.    Central American producers have sold the bulk of theircurrent crops, but robusta producers in West Africa andIndonesia need to sell coffee for April through July shipment,and this could pressure prices further, traders said.    However, one dealer, although seeing no reason to bebullish, advised caution. "Everybody's bearish now, just as theywere bullish when the market was at 3,100 stg," he said.    Arthur Cherry, coffee analyst at E.D. and F. Man, expresseddoubts the price spiral would continue much below currentlevels. "One dlr coffee is catastrophic for many producers --there must be a minimum below which prices cannot fall."    While prices dropped to the lowest levels since September1982 yesterday, manufacturers have no plans to cut their retailprices.    "Its impossible to say, we can't predict anything like thatat this stage," a General Foods spokesman said.    Manufacturers have lowered prices recently anyway inresponse to market weakness. At the beginning of March theprice of a 100 gram jar of coffee was cut to 1.55 stg from 1.65stg in Britain. But should coffee market prices continue tofall, the situation would be reviewed, the spokesman added.    Nestle also has no plans to make additional price cuts inthe near future.    "The market seems to have established some equilibrium anddoesn't look set to go much lower," a Nestle spokesmancommented.    Coffee's plunge this week has been mirrored by tea, whichfell to a 5-1/2 year low at today's auction at 1.18 stg perkilo for medium quality, traders added. Reuter
COLOMBIA COFFEE CHIEF WELCOMES BRAZIL MEASURES Jorge Cardenas, manager of Colombia'sCoffee Growers' Federation, welcomed Brazil's export measuresand said they clarified the market situation.    He told journalists the measures "set the rules clearly" andhelped dissipate whatever doubts the market might have hadabout the world's biggest exporter's policies.    Brazil's coffee institute, IBC, today opened exportregistrations for May with no quantity limit set. Thecontribution quota will be 15 pct of the minimum registrationprice, which will vary daily. Reuter
GOURMET COFFEE MAKES U.S. SUPERMARKET DEBUT Shoppers who buy Haagen-Daas ice cream,Dijon mustard or Tuborg beer on their weekly trip to thesupermarket are soon to be the target of a promotional blitzfor national-brand "gourmet" coffees.    General Foods, the largest U.S. coffee roaster, and A andP, which shares the third place in the U.S. market, are theonly two national brand roasters so far to introduce thehigher-quality coffees into selected supermarkets.    But industry insiders believe there is substantial growthpotential in upscale coffee, despite years of flat sales inregular ground roast types.    "I would suspect General Foods will make a name forthemselves with their gourmet line," said a coffee tradesource. "What it could do is really dent the small-store,whole-bean business," the trade source added.    The new lines are designed to appeal to a classicadvertising composite--the "yuppie" consumer.    They buy fresh pasta, subscribe to Bon Appetit magazine andwere "first on their block with a wok," as described by KarinBrown, General Foods senior product manager for its new coffee,called Private Collection out of GF's Maxwell House division.    Paul Gallant, president of A and P's Compass Foodssubsidiary that makes the new A and P gourmet line, describedits potential appeal as "a status thing."    At an initial price of 4.99 dlrs for 12 ounces it isexpensive, though not more so than high quality coffee sold insmall specialty stores. General Foods' Maxwell House Div. hasjust cut the price on its new offering by 50 cents to 4.49 dlrsfor 12 ounces--a move competitor A and P is bound to imitate,according to an A and P executive.    Number two U.S. roaster Folgers has "nothing to announce atthis point" in the gourmet line, a spokesman said. Neither doesHills Bros., a subsidiary of Nestle that shares the third andfourth size market spot by volume with A and P.    Competitors believe Folgers will watch the progress ofGeneral Foods' offering, prepared to jump in if the markettakes off.    General Foods and A and P hope their new products will helppush coffee sales out of the doldrums. Coffee consumption inthe United States has fallen 44 pct since 1962, according to a1986 study by the International Coffee Organization. Sales showno signs of picking up.    Compass's Gallant blames the falloff on declines in coffeequality since the 1960's and aggressive soft drink marketing.    "The national brands began to cheapen the blend in the nameof profit but spent 100 mln dlrs a year telling consumers thiswas quality coffee," Gallant said.    As a result, first time consumers never got a taste for thebrew. The first time a young consumer tries coffee, "they turnaround and say 'My God this is awful, I think I'll have aCoke'," he said.    Having now mostly written off the 16-25 age group, who haveconfirmed their loyalty to soft drinks, coffee marketers areaiming at the high income, free-spending, self-treating crowd-- the yuppie composite.    "Where else are you going to go?," an industry source said."Kids aren't going to drink coffee, that's apparent. There areno other markets. The only area that's not been promoted isgourmet," he said.    In addition to perking up sales, success in the gourmetline could provide much higher margins to roasters than regularground roast coffees produce.    Generally, retail prices are about twice the price ofgreen, unroasted coffee beans, taking into account the costs ofroasting, packaging and distribution, and then deductingoften-generous trade discounts. Supermarkets tend to sellcoffee near the trade price as a "loss leader," a productdesigned to draw shoppers into the store.    But with the new gourmet lines, a different pricingstructure prevails, industry sources said. There is no tradediscounting and an emphasis on expensive packaging, including aspecial valve designed to keep the beans fresher.    Dealers said roasters were buying the higher quality greenbeans at about 1.60 dlrs a lb. Thus, retail prices on gourmetcoffee are now almost three times the price of green.    Targetted consumers seem willing to pay the difference.General Foods claims 80 pct of consumers in their test marketsurveys for Private Collection came back for more.    And product manager Brown points to the success of moreexpensive beers, mustard and ice cream, that began selling inrestricted high income areas and are now available in almostevery supermarket in the country.    A and P is similarly optimistic. "We think we'll doextremely well in the gourmet market," Gallant said.    Maxwell House is marketing its eight types of PrivateCollection in selected high income areas, while A and P offersits 14 different whole bean gourmet coffees, called 8 O'ClockRoyale, only in their own stores in Philadelphia, Baltimore,New York, Atlanta and some other metropolitan areas. Reuter
DUTCH GREEN COFFEE IMPORTS FALL IN JANUARY Dutch green coffee imports fell to10,430 tonnes in January from 13,506 tonnes in January 1986,and exports fell to 366 tonnes from 615, the Central Bureau ofStatistics said.    Imports of Colombian coffee were 2,169 tonnes (3,025 inJanuary 1986), Brazilian 483 (3,715), Indonesian 455 (145),Guatemalan 196 (126), Cameroun 464 (560) and Ivory Coast 353(839). Reuter
BRAZILIAN COFFEE RAINFALL THE FOLLOWING RAINFALL WAS RECORDDD INTHE AREAS OVER THE PAST 24 HOURS     PARANA STATE UMUARAMA 10.6 MILLIMETRES, PARANAVAI 12.2 MM,LONDRINA 6.0 MM, MARINGA 8.0 MM.    SAO PAULO STATE: PRESIDENZE PRUDENTE 1.0 MM, VOTUPORANGA26.0 MM, FRANCA NIL, CATANDUVA 0.1 MM, SAO CARLOS NIL, SAOSIMAO NIL. REUTER
IBC COULD CLOSE MAY EXPORT REGISTRATIONS TONIGHT The Brazilian Coffee Institute(IBC) could close May export registrations tonight followingextremely heavy sales today, exporters said.    They estimated registrations today at between 1.0 mln and1.2 mln 60 kilo bags. Yesterday 645,000 bags were registered.    The exporters said over 1.0 mln bags of total registrationscould have been the declaration of sales made in the six weeksduring which books were closed. The rest would be new sales.    When the IBC opened May registrations from yesterday it didnot set any volume limit. April registrations opened and closedon February 16 when a daily record 1.68 mln bags were declared. Reuter
IBC REGISTERS 1.4 MLN BAGS OF EXPORT SALES The Brazilian Coffee Institutetoday registered 1.4 mln 60 kilo bags of green coffee for Mayshipment, an IBC statement said.    This brings the total in the two days registrations havebeen open to 2.05 mln, including 4,868 bags of soluble.    Today's registrations comprised 1,076,226 bags to membersand 326,259 to non-members of the International CoffeeOrganisation. No soluble sales were registered today. Reuter
IBC CLOSES EXPORT REGISTRATIONS - EXPORTERS The Brazilian Coffee Institute(IBC) tonight closed export registrations, exporters said.    They said they heard of the closure from IBC officials butno officials could be reached immediately for confirmation.    Earlier an IBC statement said registrations for May, theonly month which was open, today totalled 1.4 mln bags of 60kilos to bring the total registered for the month to 2.05 mln. Reuter
IBC CLOSES EXPORT REGISTRATIONS - IBC OFFICIAL The Brazilian Coffee Institute(IBC) confirmed having closed May export registrations,effective April 6.    On Friday night exporters said they had heard of theclosure from IBC officials, but the officials could not at thetime be reached for confirmation. REUTER
U.S. CERTIFIED COFFEE STOCKS DOWN IN LATEST WEEK The amount of coffee stored in New Yorkand New Orleans warehouses and certified for delivery againstthe New York Coffee "C" futures totalled 585,555 bags as ofApril 3, compared with 585,794 bags the previous week, a netdecrease of 239 bags, the New York Coffee, Sugar and CocoaExchange said.    The total comprised 392,845 bags in New York, an increaseof 261 bags, and 192,710 bags in New Orleans, a drop of 500bags.    The exchange said there were nil bags pendingclassification. There were 56,578 bags pending certification,including 32,553 in New York and 24,025 in New Orleans, theexchange said. reuter
INDONESIAN COMMODITY EXCHANGE MAY EXPAND The Indonesian Commodity Exchange islikely to start trading in at least one new commodity, andpossibly two, during calendar 1987, exchange chairman PaianNainggolan said.    He told Reuters in a telephone interview that trading inpalm oil, sawn timber, pepper or tobacco was being considered.    Trading in either crude palm oil (CPO) or refined palm oilmay also be introduced. But he said the question was stillbeing considered by Trade Minister Rachmat Saleh and nodecision on when to go ahead had been made.    The fledgling exchange currently trades coffee and rubberphysicals on an open outcry system four days a week.    "Several factors make us move cautiously," Nainggolan said."We want to move slowly and safely so that we do not make amistake and undermine confidence in the exchange."    Physical rubber trading was launched in 1985, with coffeeadded in January 1986. Rubber contracts are traded FOB, up tofive months forward. Robusta coffee grades four and five aretraded for prompt delivery and up to five months forward,exchange officials said.    The trade ministry and exchange board are considering theintroduction of futures trading later for rubber, but oneofficial said a feasibility study was needed first. Nodecisions are likely until after Indonesia's elections on April23, traders said.    Trade Minister Saleh said on Monday that Indonesia, as theworld's second largest producer of natural rubber, shouldexpand its rubber marketing effort and he hoped development ofthe exchange would help this.    Nainggolan said that the exchange was trying to boostoverseas interest by building up contacts with end-users.    He said teams had already been to South Korea and Taiwan toencourage direct use of the exchange, while a delegation wouldalso visit Europe, Mexico and some Latin American states toencourage participation.    Officials say the infant exchange has made a good startalthough trading in coffee has been disappointing.    Transactions in rubber between the start of trading inApril 1985 and December 1986 totalled 9,595 tonnes, worth 6.9mln dlrs FOB, plus 184.3 mln rupiah for rubber deliveredlocally, the latest exchange report said.     Trading in coffee in calendar 1986 amounted to only 1,905tonnes in 381 lots, valued at 6.87 billion rupiah.     Total membership of the exchange is now nine brokers and44 traders. REUTER
COLOMBIA BUSINESS ASKED TO DIVERSIFY FROM COFFEE A Colombia government trade official hasurged the business community to aggressively diversify itsactivities and stop relying so heavily on coffee.    Samuel Alberto Yohai, director of the Foreign TradeInstitute, INCOMEX, said private businessmen should not becomewhat he called "mental hostages" to coffee, traditionallyColombia's major export.    The National Planning Department forecast that in 1987coffee will account for only one-third of total exports, orabout 1.5 billion dlrs, with oil and energy products making upanother third and non-traditional exports the remainder. Reuter
COFFEE COULD DROP TO 70/80 CTS, CARDENAS SAYS International coffee prices could drop tobetween 70 and 80 cents a lb by next October if no agreement isreached to support the market, Jorge Cardenas, manager ofColombia's National Coffee Growers' Federation said.    Speaking at a forum for industrialists, he said one of thereasons was that the market was already saturated and thatproducers will have excess production and stockpiles of 39 mln(60-kg) bags in 1987.    Today, May futures in New York settled at 107.90 cents alb. Reuter
COLOMBIA COFFEE REGISTRATIONS REMAIN OPEN Colombia's coffee export registrationsremain open and there are no plans to close them since a newmarketing policy means an unlimited amount can be registered,Gilberto Arango, president of the private exporters'association said.    "The philosophy of the new policy is not to closeregistrations. Nobody so far said may would be closed," he toldReuters.    On March 13, Colombia opened registrations for April andMay for an unlimited amount.    Without giving breakdowns, Arango said private exportershad registered 1,322,804 bags this calendar year up to April 6,or roughly 440,000 bags per month, slightly lower than theaverage in recent years.    He estimated the amount of bags registered by the nationalcoffee growers' federation at about the same, meaning a totalof about 900,000 bags registered and sold per month byColombia.    "The only change that could happen is, because of thevolume, we would be told that from such a date, registrationswould be for June shipment, etc" Arango said. Reuter
BRAZILIAN COFFEE RAINFALL THE FOLLOWING RAINFALL WAS RECORDED INTHE AREAS OVER THE PAST 24 HOURS    PARANA STATE: UMUARAMA NIL, PARANAVAI NIL, LONDRINA NIL,MARINGA NIL.    SAO PAULO STATE PRESIDENTE PRUDENTE NIL, VOTUPORANGA NIL,FRANCA NIL, CATANDUVA NIL, SAO CARLOS NIL, SAO SIMAO NIL.    MINAS GERAIS STATE: GUAXUPE NIL, TRES PONTAS NIL. REUTER
COLOMBIA JAN EXPORTS UP BUT COFFEE VALUES FALL The value of colombian exports other thancoffee rose 55 pct in january compared with the same periodlast year, apparently setting a trend for the trade balance in1987, government statistics institute figures show.    They amounted to 180.8 mln dlrs fob compared with 147.5 mlndlrs for coffee, a drop of 42 pct from last year.    The trade balance registered a 35 mln dlr surplus, comparedwith a 56 mln dlr surplus in january 1986.    The national planning department forecast that in 1987coffee, colombia's traditional major export, will account foronly one-third of total exports, or about 1.5 billion dlrs. Reuter
EXPORTS OTHER THAN COFFEE RISE SHARPLY IN COLOMBIA Colombian exports other than coffee rose55 pct in January compared with the same period last year,figures from the government statistics institute show.    Non-coffee exports amounted to 180.8 mln dlrs fob comparedwith 147.5 mln dlrs for coffee, a drop of 42 pct from lastyear.    The trade balance registered a 35 mln dlr surplus, comparedwith a 56 mln dlr surplus in January 1986.    The national planning department forecast that in 1987coffee, Colombia's traditional major export, will account foronly one third of total exports, or about 1.5 billion dlrs. REUTER
UGANDA PULLS OUT OF COFFEE MARKET - TRADE SOURCES Uganda's Coffee Marketing Board (CMB)has stopped offering coffee on the international market becauseit is unhappy with current prices, coffee trade sources said.    The board suspended offerings last week but because of itsurgent need for cash it was not immediately clear how long itcould sustain, the sources added.    Hundreds of Ugandan coffee farmers and processors have beenwaiting several months for payment from the CMB, which has hadtrouble finding enough railway wagons to move the coffee to theKenyan port of Mombasa.    Foreign banks have contributed to the cash crisis byholding up remittance of Uganda's hard currency earnings fromcoffee exports, the government newspaper New Vision said.    The banks are holding up to seven mln dlrs in coffee moneyand President Yoweri Museveni is thinking of imposing a penaltyfor such delays, it added.    Banking sources said a third factor in the crisis was thatcommercial banks have lent the board only 77 billion shillings-- the equivalent of 55 mln dlrs -- for crop finance in thecurrent coffee year, while the government had asked for 100billion.    The CMB has 455,000 60-kg bags of coffee, about 15 pct ofannual production, stockpiled in Kampala awaiting shipment.    The crop accounts for over 90 pct of Uganda's exportearnings and the recent slide in prices to four-year lows islikely to more than offset an expected increase in production.    CMB officials have forecast that because the government hasrestored law and order in important growing areas, Uganda willproduce over three mln bags of coffee in the year endingSeptember 30, about 25 pct more than in 1985/6. REUTER
PATON REPORTS U.S. GREEN COFFEE ROASTINGS HIGHER U.S. roastings of green coffee in theweek ended April 4 were about 275,000 (60-kilo) bags, includingthat used for soluble production, compared with 215,000 bags inthe corresponding week of last year and about 320,000 bags inthe week ended March 28, George Gordon Paton and Co Increported.    It said cumulative roastings for calendar 1987 now total4,440,000 bags, compared with 4,540,000 bags by this time lastyear. Reuter
COLOMBIA JUNE COFFEE REGISTRATIONS OPENED Colombia has opened coffeeregistrations for June shipment with no limit set for privateexporters, as in April and May, a National Coffee Growers'Federation official said.    Colombia has sold an average of 900,000 bags per monthsince the beginning of the calendar year. Reuter
IBC COFFEE AUCTIONS TO START SOON - DAUSTER The Brazilian Coffee Institute, IBC,plans to sell in a series of auctions over the next few weeksrobusta coffee purchased in London last year, but details ofwhere and when auctions will take place are still to befinalised, IBC president Jorio Dauster told reporters.    The sales of 630,000 bags of robusta and an unspecifiedamount of Brazilian arabica coffee will take place over aminimum of six months but it is not decided where sales willtake place or whether they will be held weekly or monthly.    The amount offered at each sale has also not been set, butcould be in the order of 100,000 bags, Dauster said. Reuter
MILD COFFEE GROWERS TO MEET IN GUATEMALA A large group of "other milds"coffee-growing nations will hold talks in Guatemala next monthto map their strategy for next September's meeting of theInternational Coffee Organisation (ICO).    Mario Fernandez, executive director of the Costa Ricancoffee institute, said delegates from Mexico, the DominicanRepublic, Peru, Ecuador, India, Papua New Guinea and fivecentral american nations will participate in the two-daystrategy session beginning May 4.    The main topic will be reform of what many producingcountries perceive as the ICO's unfair distribution of exportquotas, Fernandez said.    He said Costa Rica would press for quotas "based on thereal production and export potential of each country in thepast few years" and to distribute quotas based on "historic"production levels rather than recent harvests and cropestimates. Reuter
UGANDAN GOVERNMENT PROPOSES NEW TAXES The Ugandan government, in its fouryear investment and development plan, proposed taxing land andfood crops in an attempt to broaden its revenue base away fromdependence on coffee sales.    The government also said in the plan, made available toReuters, that a devaluation of the Ugandan shilling would dolittle to redress a chronic balance of payments deficit.    The plan, the first since President Yoweri Museveni tookpower 15 months ago, seeks to raise 2.4 billion dlrs ininvestment funds from abroad between 1987 and 1991.    It says the government had already secured 1.4 billion dlrsin pledges before Islamic lenders promised a further 494 mlndlrs at a conference in Kampala last week.    Uganda already had an external debt of 984 mln dlrs at theend of 1986 and in the nine months of the current budget debtservicing will cost 204 mln dlrs, almost 50 pct of exportearnings of 431 mln, the plan said.    The new fiscal measures include a proposed tax on largeland holdings, regardless of whether the owners are exploitingthem, and taxes on maize, beans and other crops sold by theProduce Marketing Board.    The plan says the aim is to spread the tax burden, which inUganda has traditionally fallen almost exclusively on coffeefarmers. Coffee provides over 90 pct of foreign exchangeearnings and more than 70 pct of government revenue.    On exchange rate policy, it repeats Museveni's argumentthat any form of fotation would not help allocating resources.    Western governments and multilateral funds say the Ugandanshilling is grossly overvalued and the government must changethe exchange rate if it wishes to encourage investment. Theshilling sells on the black market at more than 15,000 to thedollar, compared with an official rate of 1,400. REUTER
KENYA'S TEA AND COFFEE AREAS CONTINUE DRY Kenya's coffee and tea growing areasremained generally dry for the second consecutive week, in theperiod to April 28, weather and farming sources said.    All areas east and west of the Rift Valley recorded below25 mm of rain with western Kericho town having only 21 mm, theysaid. Kericho, which last year received 387 mm in April lastyear, has so far recorded only 176 mm and little rain isforecast throughout the country in the next two days.    Tea and coffee crops are doing well but farmers fear thatoutput will be low if the unusually dry spell continues. Aprilis normally the wettest month in Kenya. Reuter
FRENCH AID TO TOGO TO HELP COFFEE, COCOA TREES France is to provide Togo with 475 mln cfafrancs of aid for a range of projects that include developmentof the coffee and cocoa industries and reafforestation in thesouth of the country, official sources said. Reuter
MEXICO HAS NO PLANS TO LEAVE ICO Mexico has no intention of leavingthe International Coffee Organization (ICO), in the event ofBrazil withdrawing from the group, the Mexican Coffee Institute(IMC) said.    The IMC said in a statement the ICO is an importantinstrument for ensuring producers obtain an adequate price.Mexico currently produces around five mln 60-kilo bags ofcoffee per year.    Brazil said during a meeting of coffee producers in Rio deJaneiro over the weekend that it would consider leaving the ICOif its export quota was reduced by the organization. Reuter
RPT - EUROPEAN TRADE MAY PROPOSE NEW ICO FORMULA European coffee traders and roastersmay propose a new formula for calculating International CoffeeOrganization (ICO) coffee quotas at the end of their meetinghere this week, traders and officials told Reuters.    Although traders were unwilling to reveal details of thepossible new formula, they said it would give Brazil, theworld's biggest coffee producer, unchanged ICO quotas for thenext two years and could be a basis for renegotiation.    "The main sticking point on quotas has been Brazil'sattitude, and this compromise could be a solution, " one said.    However, the European coffee trade federation meeting,which began here today and is to continue to the end of theweek, has revealed gaps in the European position onre-introducing quotas.    Traders said that, as a whole, the trade side was againstre-introduction of ICO quotas, while roasters were generally infavour with the single proviso that there had to be someformula basis for re-allocating quota shares among producingcountries.    The roasters said the positions were generally fairlyclose, and problems with some Government officials.    Germany and Italy were cited as the extremes of polarizedGovernment attitudes, with most other countries on the fence.    Sources said Germany was the most extreme against quotare-introduction, while the Italians were most in favour.    "Nevertheless, we expect to find enough common ground by theend of the week to at least present a common European Community(EC) view at the next meeting of consumer members of theInternational Coffee Agreement (ICA) in July," one trader said.    "We hope we can present the compromise proposal and that notonly the consumer side, but the producer side will accept it,"one official said.    "We have learned that we can live without the quotas thatwere suspended in February last year, but would prefer thestability they can bring to the market as long as we do notsimply return to the old and outdated status quo as far asquota allocation is concerned," he added.    Overall, however, trader and roaster opinion on thelikelihood of a successful re-negotiation was mildlypessimistic, varying between a 50-50 chance and 60-40 against.    "Our main difficulty will be to persuade the U.S. On theconsumer side and Brazil on the producer side to agree to quotare-introduction, " he said.    "The U.S. Position has, if anything, hardened, while the newBrazilian Coffee Institute president has adopted the leastnegotiable position of any of his predecessors," one tradersaid.    "However, with many producers starting to swing in favour ofthe consumer position that quotas have to be re-allocated undera new formula, Brazil is becoming increasingly isolated, whichgives at least some hope of a compromise at the ICO quotameeting in September," the official said. Reuter
IBC DETAILS PLANS TO PAY CREDITORS The Brazilian Coffee Institute,IBC, gave details of its plans to pay the 18 companies thatbought 630,000 bags of robusta coffee in the London market onits behalf last September.    An IBC spokesman told Reuters that a 15 mln dlr loan fromthe Banco do Brasil would be used to pay five mln dlrs a monthin June, July and August to creditors.    He said an auction of coffee would raise additional moneyand added that a Reuter report on June 16 gave the wrongimpression that the auction was necessary to raise part of the15 mln dlrs. No date has yet been set for the auction. Reuter
EUROPEAN COFFEE TRADE PROPOSES NEW QUOTA FORMULA European coffee roasters and tradershave agreed to propose a new formula for calculatingInternational Coffee Organization, ICO, quotas, Dutch CoffeeTrade Association chairman chairman Frits van Horick said.    Van Horick, who is a council member of the European CoffeeFederation, was speaking at the end of the ECF annual meeting.    The new formula is based on six-year moving averages andwould give Brazil, the world's biggest coffee producer, anunchanged quota for the remaining two years of the currentcoffee agreement, van Horick said.    If accepted by the consumer and producer members of theICO, the formula could also be a basis for negotiating a newagreement, van Horick said.    Coffee quotas were suspended in February last year whenprices shot up on fears of a drought-induced crop disaster inBrazil.    Although prices are now considerably lower, consumers andproducers have been unable to agree on re-introduction.    "Brazil has been the most strongly against any change in theformula because it feared a lower quota. But our proposalleaves it very little to object to," van Horick said.    "The existing quota system is far too rigid and does notreflect supply and demand reality," he said. "Our formulabuilds flexibility into the system and will benefit almosteveryone."    Although full implications of the new formula have still tobe worked out, initial estimates suggest countries such asColombia, Kenya, Indonesia and Costa Rica would get slightlyhigher quotas, while others such as the Ivory Coast, ElSalvador and Nicaragua would lose quota share, van Horick said.    Because the proposal provides that future quotadistribution must reflect current demand and actual supply, itshould also prevent under-shipment of quota as countries doingso would automatically prejudice their following year's quota.    "If the ICO consumers accept our proposal it stands at leasta fair chance of being accepted by the producers at theSeptember meeting, most of whom are generally in favour of anew quota formula, " van Horick said.    At the same time much will depend on Brazil's attitude.    "Brazil is increasingly isolated on the producer side. Ifthere is no frost damage to its coffee crop over the next twomonths and most other producers favour our proposal, we mightjust get an agreement," van Horick added. Reuter
COLOMBIA HELPFUL BUT COFFEE QUOTAS UNCERTAIN--U.S. A U.S. government trade officialresponsible for coffee policy said prospects for an accord oncoffee quotas are still uncertain despite recent Colombianefforts to bridge differences between producers and consumers.    Jon Rosenbaum, an assistant U.S. trade representative justback from trade talks in Colombia, said most producingcountries now accept some sort of standardized criteria must beagreed to reintroduce coffee quotas.    "There is one country which evidently still does not,"Rosenbaum said in an obvious reference to Brazil, which hasbeen negative recently on a reintroduction of quotas.    Rosenbaum said because of the stance of Brazil the outlookfor an agreement to reintroduce coffee quotas at the SeptemberInternational Coffee Organization meeting is hard to predict.    He said that during the visit to Bogota he held technicaldiscussions with Colombian officials.    While he did not meet with Jorge Cardenas, head of theColombian coffee producers federation, who was in Europe,Cardenas left a "positive letter," Rosenbaum said.    The Cardenas letter responded to a U.S. letter last monthwhich praised Colombia for trying to find a compromise formulafor the reintroduction of quotas, but outlined several concernswith the technical details of the Colombian plan.    Rosenbaum could not be reached later in the day for commenton a new formula for calculating ICO quotas agreed to byEuropean coffee roasters and traders.    Dutch coffee trade association chairman Frits van Horicksaid in Amsterdam the new formula is based on six year movingaverages and would give Brazil an unchanged export quota forthe remaining to years of the current coffee agreement.    The U.S. has said it will not agree to any coffee quotasunless "objective criteria" which reflect recent changes in thecoffee market are used to set export limits. Reuter
RIO DE JANEIRO - IBC ESTIMATES Shr profit six cts vs loss 18 cts    Net profit 156,000 vs loss 212,000    Revs 5,094,000 vs 5,669,000 Reuter
BRAZIL COULD EXPORT 19 MLN BAGS OF COFFEE -IBC Brazil's coffee exports could amount to19 mln bags this year, because of the excellent crop estimateof 35.2 mln bags, an IBC spokesman said.    He said exports could surpass the average annual 18 mlnbags mark, especially if the final harvest to be conducted inOctober and November confirms the crop at over 35 mln bags.    He said the average limit of errors for the official cropharvest could be set at five pct above or below the firstestimates officially published today.    He said the IBC agreed with a request by producers for theInstitute to ask the government for a monthly indexation of theguarantee minimum price. Reuter
DAUSTER SAYS CONSUMERS SHOULD KEEP OUT OF QUOTAS Consumer countries should notintervene in the distribution of coffee export quotas,Brazilian Coffee Institute president Jorio Dauster said.    "Distribution of export quotas should be in the hands ofproducers as has been traditional," Dauster, a delegate at therecent coffee symposium here, told journalists. "When consumerswant to get involved, talks are much more difficult."    The main consumer country the United States and mainproducer Brazil failed to reach agreement on quota distributionwhen the International Coffee Organisation (ICO) met inFebruary.    Dauster said Brazil's role when the ICO meets in London inSeptember will be to support the world coffee pact, defend itsmarket share and argue for distribution of quotas to be in thehands of producer countries.    "We have sacrificed a great deal already," he said. "this yearwe have a crop of 35 mln bags, we have economic problems and weare not in a position to do favours." Reuter
IBC SEEKS EXPORT DETAILS TO SET COFFEE QUOTAS The Brazilian Coffee Institute(IBC) has given shippers until close of business on Thursday tosubmit details of past export performance in order thatindividual quotas can be allocated, an IBC spokesman said.    He told Reuters IBC President Jorio Dauster has confirmedacceptance of National Coffee Policy Council (CNPC) proposalsto establish individual export quotas based 65 pct on exportperformance, 25 pct on stocks and 10 pct by auction.    Shippers can choose their best period of 12 consecutivemonths between April 1, 1985, and September 30, 1987, to beused for calculating the export performace portion.    The IBC will total all the figures, calculate each shippersparticipation and use this as a basis for allocation ofindividual quotas, the IBC spokesman said.    He said the IBC has already settled with the Sao PauloMercantile Exchange how the auction system will operate.Shippers can bid a premium over the contribution quota payableon coffee exports and the succesful bidder will add thispremium to the contribution quota when he submits his exportsales declaration form.    Auctions will not start until after the opening of exportregistrations. The spokesman could not say when this might bebut trade sources said an announcement could come at the end ofthe week, opening registraions from Monday.    A meeting has been set for tomorrow in Brasilia of theCNPC's export marketing committee to establish a system forallocating the 25 pct of export quotas based on stock levels,the spokesman added.    A system of individual export quotas is being reestablishedin Brazil - a previous system was abandoned in 1985 - to ensureshipments are kept in line with the country's ICO quota. Reuter
ICO EXECUTIVE BOARD TO MEET EARLY NOVEMBER The International Coffee Organization(ICO) Executive Board is to hold a meeting on November 3/4, itsfirst since export quotas were re-introduced early this month.    An ICO spokesman said the session, for the first time underthe chairmanship of Bruno Caron of France, will review themarket situation and the operation of quotas.    On November 5 the six exporters making up the ICO Board ofManagement of the Promotion Fund will review its program forthe 1987/88 year (Oct/Sept) and items left over from 1986/87.    On November 2 a six nation working group will considerstock verification in Papua New Guinea. Reuter
COLOMBIA OPENS COFFEE REGISTRATIONS - LDN TRADE Colombia has opened export registrationsfor November coffee shipments, trade sources said. No furtherdetails were available. Reuter
UGANDA PLANS TO EXPORT ROASTED COFFEE TO EUROPE Uganda plans to export roasted coffee toEurope by the end of 1988, a prominent local businessman said.    A.R. Sendi said on Sunday that Uganda's Ministry ofIndustry supports his plan to build a factory to roast, grindand pack local coffee for export. Construction will start inDecember and the factory should be ready by next October.    He said the Marketing Ministry has authorised the CoffeeMarketing Board to supply his company <Unipack> with 24,000tonnes of beans a year for processing and export. Sendi alsotold reporters he had negotiated a 69.7 mln French franc loanfrom the Banque Industrielle d'Afrique Oriental in Paris.    Uganda is the world's fifth largest coffee producer, andexpects to produce about 200,000 tonnes this year.    Market sources say roasted coffee exports will benefitUganda's economy as they will not be included in the 2.38 mln(60 kg) bag export quota assigned to the country under thelatest International Coffee Agreement.    In addition, the value of roasted coffee should besubstantially higher than that of unroasted beans, they said.    The U.S. Is the biggest buyer of Ugandan coffee, most ofwhich is used to produce instant coffee. REUTER
