MAGMA LOWERS COPPER 0.75 CENT TO 66 CTS Magma Copper Co, a subsidiary of NewmontMining Corp, said it is cutting its copper cathode price by0.75 cent to 66 cents a lb, effective immediately. Reuter
COPPER STOCKS OUTSIDE U.S. INCREASE IN DECEMBER Refined copper stocks held byrefineries outside the U.S. increased to a preliminary 277,500short tons at the end of December from a preliminary 270,000short tons (revised higher) at the end of November, theAmerican Bureau of Metal Statistics said.    London Metal Exchange stocks fell to 193,100 tons inDecember from 194,400 tons in November. Combined refinery andLME stocks rose to a preliminary 470,600 tons from 464,400 tons(revised higher). January LME stocks were 193,400 tons.    Preliminary figures showed refined production outside U.S.lower at 377,300 tons in December versus 384,000 tons inNovember. Crude output decreased to 421,500 tons from 427,000tons (revised higher). Refined copper deliveries decreased to359,800 tons from 375,400 tons (revised lower). Reuter
U.S. BRASS MILL COPPER STOCKS LOWER IN JANUARY U.S. brass mill copper stocks fell to185,400 short tons (copper content) at the end of January from191,200 short tons at the end of December, according to theAmerican Bureau of Metal Statistics.    Consumption by brass mills increased to 60,700 short tonsin January from 48,900 short tons in December.    Mills consumed 29,600 tons of refinery shapes in Januaryversus 24,000 tons in December. Scrap consumption increased to31,100 tons in January from 24,900 tons in December.    Total brass mill shipments increased to 69,600 tons inJanuary from 54,400 tons in December, while receipts rose to63,800 tons from 47,100 tons. Reuter
COPPER STUDY GROUP CONSIDERED AT GENEVA MEETING Major copper producing and consumingcountries are considering a U.S. proposal to set up a studygroup to review the world copper market, delegates said.    The U.S. initiative was introduced last December at ameeting held here under the auspices of the United NationsConference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD).    The U.S., the world's largest copper consumer and secondbiggest producer after Chile, has proposed setting up a body toimprove statistics and market transparency of the coppereconomy, and provide a forum for discussion.    The new body would not aim at negotiating measures tostabilise depressed world prices.    This week's meeting, which began yesterday, is due to endFriday. Reuter
TOTAL U.S. COPPER STOCKS LOWER IN JANUARY Total copper stocks held by U.S. rodmills and refiners (including wirebars, cathodes, scrap, rodand in-process material) dropped to 155,467,000 lbs at the endof January from 203,513,000 lbs at the end of December, theAmerican Bureau of Metal Statistics said.    Rod stocks held by refiners and rod mills decreased to61,384,000 lbs in January from 69,986,000 lbs in December.    Cathode inventories at rod mills fell to 86,456,000 lbs inJanuary from 124,409,000 lbs in December, while wirebar stockswere lower at 3,508,000 lbs versus 4,913,000 lbs in December.    December rod mill wirebar use nearly doubled to 3,148,000lbs in January from 1,540,000 lbs in December. Cathode use bymills and refiners increased to 255,266,000 lbs in January from238,821,000 lbs in December. Reuter
NORTHGATE <NGX> QUEBEC ORE RESERVES DECLINE Northgate Exploration Ltd said year-end1986 ore reserves at its two Chibougamau mines in Quebec fellto 8,141,150 short tons grading 0.077 ounce gold a ton and 1.63pct copper from year-earlier 8,462,000 tons grading 0.077 ouncegold ton and 1.67 pct copper.    The company said it launched a 700,000 dlr explorationprogram at the mines to increase production and ensure theoperations' continued long life.    Ore production totaled 650,653 tons last year, it said,estimating year-end reserves contained about 627,000 ounces ofgold and 265 mln pounds of copper. Reuter
NO QUAKE DAMAGE AT CHUQUICAMATA - MINE SPOKESMAN The earthquake which hit northern Chiletoday, registering 7.0 on the open-ended Richter scale, causedno damage to the copper mine at Chuquicamata, a mine spokesmansaid.    Chuquicamata public relations director Guillermo Barcelotold Reuters by telephone from the mine that the quake hadcaused no problems and operations continued as usual.    A spokesman for the state Chilean Copper Commission inSantiago confirmed there had been no damage at Chuquicamata. Reuter
WESTERN CANADA HURT BY INTERNATIONAL FORCES Western Canada's resource-based economyis being hurt by international market forces and there islittle Ottawa can do about it, Finance Minister Michael Wilsonsaid.    "If you can tell me how we can get the international energyprice up and how we can get the price for copper up and how wecan get the price for wheat up, then we will listen," Wilsontold the House of Comnons Finance Committee.    Although under pressure from oil companies and wheatfarmers for help in battling depressed commodity prices, Wilsonsaid it has to be recognized the area was a "prisoner of marketforces outside the boundaries of this country."    Wilson, appearing before the committee to discuss thegovernment's spending estimates released earlier this week,said the government is doing what it can in the region, citingmore than 3.5 billion dlrs in aid for western agriculture.    "Those resources are a reflection of very real concerns onour part in dealing with a very difficult problem," Wilson saidin response to questions about management of the economy fromopposition party members.    He said the long term answer for depressed regions of thecountry was reaching a free trade pact with the United States,which he claimed would improve the outlook for Western Canada. Reuter
ZAMBIAN LATE 1986 COPPER OUTPUT UP, SALES DOWN Zambian copper production rose 3.2 pct to113,275 tonnes in fourth quarter 1986 from 109,767 in the same1985 period but sales fell 18.7 pct to 119,967 tonnes from147,537, Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines, ZCCM, said.    A spokesman for the government-controlled mining companysaid the country's cobalt production fell 24 pct to 879 tonnesover the same period, while cobalt sales rose 92 pct to 1,734tonnes. He did not give figures for the fourth quarter of 1985.    Lead production fell 22.9 pct to 1,670 tonnes from 2,165and zinc production dropped 14 pct to 4,830 tonnes, he added.    ZCCM, which monopolises copper mining in Zambia andaccounts for about 90 pct of the country's foreign exchangeearnings, made a net loss of 718 mln kwacha in 1986 comparedwith a net profit of 19 mln kwacha the previous year.    The 1986 losses were after taking into account net interestpayments of 426 mln kwacha, an exchange loss of 412 mln kwachaand taxes of 235 mln kwacha. Reuter
COPPER MEETING AGREES GOALS OF STUDY GROUP The world's major copper producing andconsuming countries have reached "a degree of consensus" onobjectives and functions of a future study group aimed atreviewing the world copper market, officials said.    Governments represented at a meeting to consider a proposedforum for copper have recommended that another session be heldin September to consider further the nature of such a group, aspokesman for the United Nations Conference on Trade andDevelopment (UNCTAD) said.    The one-week meeting, which ended today, was held toexamine a U.S. Initiative to set up a copper study group.    The new body would not aim at negotiating measures tostabilise depressed world prices.    Its objectives would include increasing markettransparency, through improved statistics, and undertakingactivities aimed at developing the copper market andcontributing to improvement of demand.    UNCTAD's spokesman said, "Once they have agreed on detailedfunctions and objectives, then the way will be cleared tosetting up the body." Reuter
<TECHNIGEN PLATINUM CORP> IN METALS FIND Technigen Platinum corp said itinitial results of a 13-hole drilling program on its R.M. Nicelplatinum property in Rouyn-Noranda, Quebec, indicate"extensive" near-surface zones "highly" enriched in gold,platinum and palladium were found in rocks on the periphery ofa sulphide deposit.    It said values of up to 0.073 ounce of platinum, 0.206ounce palladium, three pct copper and 4.5 pct nickel were foundover a drill section of 13 feet.                   More
TECHNIGEN PLATINUM CORP IN METALS FIND Technigen Platinum corp said initialresults of a 13-hole drilling program on its R.M. Nicelplatinum property in Rouyn-Noranda, Quebec, indicate extensivenear-surface zones highly enriched in gold, platinum andpalladium.    The metals were found in rocks on the periphery of asulphide deposit.    It said values of up to 0.073 ounce of platinum, 0.206ounce palladium, three pct copper and 4.5 pct nickel were foundover a drill section of 13 feet. Reuter
AUSTRALIAN METAL TRADER LINKS TO ASTURIANA DE ZINC <Metal Traders Australasia Ltd> said anewly-formed subsidiary, the <Austmet Ltd> group, hasnegotiated an exclusive long-term contract with Spain's<Asturiana de Zinc> to market its zinc metal exports.    Metal Traders said in a statement the contract wouldunderpin the worldwide zinc, copper and lead trading activitiesof Austmet, a wholly-owned London-based company with a U.S.Unit in Stamford, Connecticut.    Austmet has recruited a group of base metal traders,currently operating out of Britain and the U.S., Who havehandled Asturiana's business for the past five years, it said.    Asturiana has a three-year option to purchase 25 pct of theAustmet group, to be priced on an independent valuation at thetime of exercise, Metal Traders said.    Austmet will have an initial equity base of one mln stg, aturnover of 200 mln Australian dlrs rising to 300 mln in thefirst year, and credit lines of up to 30 mln U.S. Dlrs.    Austmet should be generating profits from July 1 and a1.5-2.5 mln dlr net is envisaged within two years, it said.    Metal Traders said Asturiana has the largest zinc smeltingcapacity in Europe -- nearly 200,000 tonnes a year of 99.995pct high-grade zinc, at Aviles in northern Spain.    Metal Traders, a listed company, was formerly <PyrotechResources N.L.> whose chief activity was the development andmarketing of high-technology smelting processes invented inAustralia, notably the Siromelt Zinc Fuming Process.    But in late 1986, control of the company changed and itexpanded by acquisition into metal trading in Australia andAsia. It then changed its name.    It also has the marketing contract for mineral sandsproduced by <TiO2 Corp N.L.>, of which it holds 17.5 pct.    In today's statement, Metal Traders also said it isreviewing possible acquisition of a mineral producer. REUTER
OUTOKUMPU RESTRUCTURES COPPER DIVISION Finland's mining and metals groupOutokumpu Oy <OUTO.HE>, which last week reported a 1986 loss of83 mln markka after three successive years of profits, said itrestructured its key copper processing division in an attemptto rationalize production and improve profitability.    Outokumpu's Managing Director Pertti Voutilainen told anews conference the reorganization involved a split of thedivision into a new independent division with six profitcentres.    Outokumpu group had a 1986 loss before appropriations andtaxes of 83 mln markka after a profit of 355 mln in 1985. Ithad profits in 1984 and 1983 but a loss, 171.2 mln, in 1982.    Outokumpu acquired two Swedish copper manufacturers inJanuary 1986, <Metallverken Ab> and <Wirsbo Bruks Ab>, thatwere merged into its copper processing division.    The division had a turnover of 3.2 billion markka lastyear, 42 pct of Outokumpu's group turnover of 7.58 billion.    The new Outokumpu division, called Copper ProductsIndustry, is to incorporate Outokumpu's copper productionplants, including its two U.S. Subsidiaries <Nippert Co> and<Valleycast Inc>, as well as Metallverken and part of Wirsbo.    Outokumpu is planning to make Wirsbo an independentdivision in the Outokumpu group and transfer only Wirsbo'scopper tube production into one of the new division's profitcentres. A definite decision on Wirsbo will be taken later thisyear.    The new division will have production plants in Finland,Sweden, Norway, the Netherlands and the U.S. REUTER
PERU GUERRILLAS INTERRUPT TRAIN ROUTE TO MINES Maoist guerrillas using dynamite derailedtwo locomotives and four train wagons, interrupting traffic onPeru's sole railway line linking the capital to the centralAndes, where most of the country's mining centres are located,authorities said.    Damages was estimated at 800,000 dlrs in the dynamite blastyesterday at Chacapalca, where the explosion wrecked the trainladen with minerals and 45 metres of the railway line.    Crews hoped to restore traffic to the line later todayafter clearing the damaged train and repairing the tracks atChacapalca, 225 km east of the Capital, Lima.    An official at Mineroperu comercial (Minpeco), Peru's stateminerals marketing firm, said the agency was assessing thesituation. There had not been a declaration of force majeure oncontracts to ship minerals abroad.    Foreign sales of silver, copper, zinc and other mineralsearn Peru over half of its export income. Most of the minerals,extracted and refined in the central peruvian andes, areshipped down the central railway to the lima port of callao. Reuter
MAGMA <MGCPV> SEES PROFITABLE COPPER PRODUCTION Newmont Mining Corp <NEM> said MagmaCopper Co anticipates being able to produce copper at a profitby 1991, assuming copper prices remain at their current levels.    In an information statement distributed to Newmontshareholders explaining the dividend of Magma shares declaredTuesday, Newmont said Magma had a net loss of 46.6 mln dlrs in1986, adding this was equal to 1.22 cts a share.    Newmont holders will receive 80 pct of Magma's stock as adividend of one share for each of the 30,458,000 Newmont sharesnow held. Newmont will retain 15 pct of the stock.    The 1986 net loss was on a pro forma basis, Newmont said.On a historical basis, it added, Magma had a 1986 net loss of58.1 mln dlrs on a loss from operations of 42.3 mln dlrs.    On Dec 31, 1986, Newmont said, Magma had about 85.0 mlndlrs of net operating loss carryforwards expiring in 1999-2000and about 4.0 mln dlrs of investment tax credit carryoverexpiring in 2000-2001.    Newmont said Magma has pre-tax losses of 290 mln dlrsduring the 1981 through 1985 period, noting the five major U.S.primary copper producers reported aggregate pre-tax losses of1.9 billion dlrs during five year period.    Newmont said Magma had total sales of 347.3 mln dlrs lastyear, including copper sales of 293.4 mln dlrs.    It said the copper sales value was up from 267.6 mln dlrsin 1985 reflecting a 10.1 pct increase in quantity sold to212,000 short tons and a 0.4 pct decrease in price. Reuter
PERU'S CENTROMIN SAYS NO COPPER FORCE MAJEURE Peru's biggest state mining firm,Centromin SA, said today there was no immediate force majeurepossibility on its copper shipments after guerrillas blew up arailway line, interrupting train traffic from the Cobrizacopper mine to the Pacific coast.    A Centromin spokesman said the managers of the mine atCobriza could always ship the the mineral by road to the coastfor export if the train line continued interrupted. Cobrizaproduced the equivalent of around 40,600 fine tonnes of copperlast year.    Maoist guerrillas using dynamite interrupted train traffictwo days ago when they blew up railway tracks and derailed atrain laden with minerals 225 km (135 miles) east of Lima atChacapalca, between the coast and Cobriza.    An official at Minero Peru Comercial, Minpeco, Peru's stateminerals marketing firm, confirmed there had been nodeclaration of force majeure on the shipments from Cobriza.    Officials at National Train Company, Enafer, headquartersin Lima, the Peruvian capital, declined to comment on whentrain traffic would be restored to Cobriza.    But an Enafer official, reached by telephone in the centralAndean city of Huancayo, near Chacapalca, said traffic could berestored by Saturday. Reuter
RENISON GOLDFIELDS EXTENDS LYELL COPPER MINE LIFE The Renison Goldfields Consolidated Ltd<RGFJ.S> (RGC) Mt Lyell copper mine in Tasmania will stay openfor an extra five years following a new aid package from thestate government, RGC said in a statement.    The mine had been scheduled to close in 1989 after the 40series stopes were mined, but will now stay open until thedeeper 50 and 60 series have played out, probably in 1994.    The Australian dollar's fall since 1985 also improved thelocal dollar copper price, making the company profitable andjustifying the mining of deeper reserves at a copper grade ofabout 1.95 pct against about 1.60 pct now, the firm said.    Ore output will be cut, but the higher grades will keepcontained-copper output at current levels of about 24,000tonnes a year, it said. Capital expenditure of about 18 mlndlrs will be required over the life of the new plan, RGC said.    The latest aid package is the third since 1977 for RGC, amajor employer in Queenstown on the thinly populated west coastof Tasmania.    The mine was kept open in 1985 after Tasmania gave RGC 10mln dlrs in aid. The new package includes an eight mln dlradvance to RGC at the long-term bond rate, power concessionsand deferred royalties and payroll taxes. REUTER
ZAMBIA STOPS SENDING COPPER THROUGH SOUTH AFRICA Zambia has stopped sending its copperexports through South Africa, the official Times of Zambiasaid.    The newspaper yesterday quoted highly placed sources assaying the state-owned Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM)was diverting its mineral exports away from South Africa, butit did not say which alternative routes were being used.    ZCCM officials declined to comment on the report, butStandwell Mapara, general manager of the Tanzania-ZambiaRailway Authority (TAZARA), told Reuters recently virtually allZambian mineral exports had been channelled along the TAZARAline to Dar es Salaam for the last three months.    During that period no Zambian copper had been shippedthrough Zimbabwe to the Mozambican port of Beira - the onlyother available route which avoids South Africa, Mapara said.    Last December TAZARA carried 36,000 tonnes of Zambianmineral ore, the line's record for any one month period, headded.    Copper, cobalt and other mineral exports account for 95 to98 pct of Zambia's foreign exchange earnings and PresidentKenneth Kaunda told Reuters in a recent interview it was vitalfor his country to assure new outlets for them, avoiding thetraditional route through South Africa.    Referring to Zambia's preparations for a possible cut ineconomic links with South Africa, Kaunda told Reuters in aninterview on March 1, "My main concern, of course, is the minesbecause whatever happens we must continue to run the mines."    According to Mapara, TAZARA handled 1.1 mln tonnes offreight last year and is still working well below its present1.4 mln capacity. Kaunda said that once preparations had beencompleted for evacuating Zambia's mineral exports on safe anddependable routes his government would look to increase itsusage of TAZARA for other types of cargo.    The 1986 annual report of Zambia's state-run MetalMarketing Corporation said 81 pct of the country's metalexports were channelled through Dar es Salaam last year, versus79 pct in 1985. The report said Zambian copper production fellto 463,000 tonnes last year from 526,000 in 1985.    Despite the official optimism about diversifying Zambia'sexport routes, diplomatic sources in Lusaka expressedreservations about the capacity of Dar es Salaam and Beiraports to handle all of Zambia's mineral exports, even if theycould be hauled there by train.    "The two ports cannot in any way and in their present formhandle the huge exports of Zambian copper," one western diplomatsaid.    "A serious disruption in copper movement to the marketscould be brought about as it would pile up at the two portswhich lack the facilities and space to handle the coppertonnage," he added. REUTER
TALKING POINT/COPPER STOCKS Copper shares, which have laggedbehind the market, should pick up steam this year on strongerdemand and improving prices for the metal, analysts said.    "Copper prices should move up over the next four to sixquarters," said Daniel Roling of Merrill Lynch and Co <MER>. "Isee average copper prices at 70 cts a pound in 1988, up fromaround 63 or 64 cts, based on tight supply and continued worldeconomic growth."    Other analysts see metal prices ranging from 65 to 68 cts apound this year and 70 to 73 cts in 1988.    Analysts said Phelps Dodge Corp <PD> will be a strongperformer because it is the largest U.S. copper producer.    But Asarco Inc <AR>, with about 45 pct of total sales fromcopper, and Newmont Mining Corp <NEM> are also potentialwinners, they said. Newmont is spinning off 85 pct of itscopper operations to its shareholders.    "In theory, Phelps is the best stock. It's the purest playand benefits most from higher copper prices," one said.    William Siedenburg of Smith Barney Harris Upham and Co,said Phelps has lowered costs and streamlined miningoperations. "They've accomplished a great deal," he said.    The company's move into carbon black, a product used intires, should provide steady earnings, although not rapidgrowth, as a hedge against a copper downturn, Siedenburg said.He estimates Phelps will earn 2.45 dlrs in 1987 and 4.45 dlrsin 1988, including tax benefits, versus 1.79 dlrs in 1986.    Other analysts, including Clarence Morrison of Dean WitterReynolds Inc and Merrill's Roling, also recommend Phelps.    Morrison projects Phelps will earn 3.25 dlrs in 1987 andfour dlrs in 1988, while Roling sees earnings at 2.75 dlrs thisyear and around 3.50 dlrs next year.    "The stock can go to the mid 30s," Roling said, from itscurrent level of around 30. But others see it climbing to 40.    "Their (Phelps Dodge) costs are so low, they don't needcopper prices higher than 70 cts to make a lot of money," saidVahid Fathi of Prescott Ball and Turben Inc. "The shares willoutperform the market over the next 18 months," he said.    But Nick Toufexis of Prudential-Bache Securities Inc saysNewmont Mining is a more attractive investment. "We'd ratherplace our bets with Newmont. Any way you slice it, I see asignificant premium to the current stock price," he said.    After the spinoff, which closes next month, Newmont willhave gold operations, including 95 pct of Newmont Gold Co<NGC>, a 15 pct stake in its copper unit and energy operations,Toufexis noted.    Analysts see Newmont earning 2.85 dlrs to three dlrs in1987 and about 3.75 dlrs in 1988, versus earnings of about 1.40dlrs from operations in 1986.    "I'd be buying up to 90," Toufexis said last week, when thestock rose sharply to near that level. "But the shares areprobably worth about 108 dlrs (each)."    Dean Witter's Morrison and Fathi of Prescott Ball likeAsarco, because of cost cutting and restructuring. Morrisonsees 1987 earnings at 1.25 dlrs and 1988 at 1.75 against lossesin 1986. Fathi projects Asarco will earn one dlr in 1987 andfrom three dlrs to 3.25 dlrs in 1988.    Roling of Merrill Lynch is recommending Cyprus Minerals Co<CYPM> in addition to Phelps Dodge. Cyprus has interests incoal and other minerals aside from copper.    But Siedenburg of Smith Barney thinks Cyprus is overpricedat current levels. "I would be willing to sell Cyprus and buyPhelps Dodge if I were picking one copper stock," he said. Reuter
ZAMBIAN MINISTER CONFIRMS COPPER DIVERSION Minister of Mines Patrick Chitambalaconfirmed that Zambia had ended copper shipments through SouthAfrica and announced that its state-run mining company hadclosed down its liaison office in the white-ruled republic.    He told the official Times of Zambia newspaper in aninterview the government was diverting all mineral exportsalong rail routes to Dar es Salaam in Tanzania and Beira inMozambique. Chitambala declined to say what volume of copperand other minerals were being shipped through these two ports,but he said there had not been any problem with the newarrangements.    "So far our copper has been reaching its destinationswithout hindrance," he told the Times.    The Times of Zambia quoted unnamed sources as saying Zambiaexported 100,000 tonnes of copper through Dar es Salaam and17,000 through Beira in the last quarter of 1986. Diplomaticsources in Lusaka had earlier expressed doubts over Zambia'sability to ship all its copper through Beira and Dar es Salaamwithout causing massive bottlenecks at the ports.    Chitambala also said that the state-run Zambia ConsolidatedCopper Mines (ZCCM) had closed its liaison office inJohannesburg, since it was now redundant. Reuter
COPPER INDUSTRY ASKS LME FOR STRATEGY STATEMENT Representatives of the InternationalWrought Copper Council (IWCC) and major copper producers havetold the London Metal Exchange (LME) a clear statement of itsforward strategy would lead to a better understanding betweenindustry and the LME.    In a press release the IWCC said that at the latest meetingbetween the copper industry and the LME to discuss the newclearing house system, industry expressed grave concern aboutlatest proposals made by at least one LME member for a cashcleared market to replace the planned clearing system whichwill retain the prompt date settlement basis.    Copper industry delegates told the LME a decision to change(the planned clearing system) would indicate a fundamentalchange in the function of the LME and in its service to theindustry, the release said.    By deterring industry use of the Exchange for hedging andphysical needs it would remove many of the unique advantagescurrently offered by the LME and make it indistinguishable fromnon-trade orientated markets such as Comex.    The LME had to decide whether dealer convenience shouldtake a higher priority over customer satisfaction, industrydelegates said.    The IWCC release also said the LME had confirmed that nochange would be made to the clearing system planned to start onMay 29. But it had indicated that consideration would be givenin due course to the cash clearing proposal, made byAmalgamated Metal Trading at a LME members meeting last week.    A copper industry spokesman suggested that some assuranceof permanence in the new clearing system would remove industryfears of uncertainty resulting from an endless process ofreview and change, the press release said. Reuter
CHILEAN COPPER WORKERS ELECT LEFT-WING LEADERS Chilean left-wing leaders wereelected by the copper workers union for the first time sincethe left-wing government of Salvador Allende was overthrown ina 1973 coup.     Nicanor Araya, a member of the Popular Democratic Movement(MDP), was named president of the Chilean Confederation ofCopperworkers (CTC), which groups 22,000 workers employed inthe state-owned copper mines, union officials said.    Other members of the MDP, which includes the communistparty and a faction of the socialist party, took five of theprincipal positions on the union's directorate.    The state-owned copper company of Chile (CODELCO) producesaround 90 pct of the country's copper output of some one mlntonnes per year. Chile is the world's leading copper exporterand sales account for just under 50 pct of its export income.    The MDP won six out of the 14 places on the union'sdirectorate in elections earlier this month, with the christiandemocratic party holding five and the remainder being won byindependents.    But the left-wing was left in control of the union afterthe christian democrats and independents failed to reachagreement on a joint candidate for the presidency and withdrewfrom negotiations.    Union elections were called following the resignation offormer president Rodolfo Seguel last October.    Seguel, a christian democrat and Chile's best-known unionleader, said he was forced to step down after repeated courtactions brought by CODELCO prevented the union from operating.    The labour leader, who now heads the inter-union nationalworkers command (CNT), was among 500 workers sacked by CODELCOfollowing a strike in 1983.    The strike, the only copper industry stoppage staged in thepast 13 years, marked the start of a wave of protests againstthe military rule of President Augusto Pinochet.     CODELCO argued that Seguel could not continue as unionleader when no longer employed by the company. Reuter
PHILIPPINE COPPER SMELTER FACES SHIPMENT DELAYS Copper shipments are likely to bedelayed because of power problems at <Philippine AssociatedSmelting and Refining Corp> (PASAR), the country's onlysmelter, a company official said.    Asked to confirm reports by New York copper trade sourcesabout PASAR's shipment problems, marketing manager DeograciasMadrid told Reuters, "They are partly correct. There could be aprobable delay."    Madrid declined to give more details, or production andexport figures, saying the information could lead tospeculation.    PASAR's smelter is in the central province of Leyte.    The New York trade sources said if PASAR's shipments weredelayed, customers might have to turn to the London MetalExchange for supply.    "We have a commitment to our customers and I would not liketo comment on that," Madrid said.    A spokeswoman for the Chamber of Mines said Philippinecopper production amounted to 222,644 tonnes in 1986, downslightly from 226,157 tonnes in 1985. She said production inthe first two months of 1987 totalled 34,550 tonnes, comparedwith 36,462 tonnes in the same 1986 period. REUTER
HOUSTON METALS' MINE YIELDS POSITIVE RESULTS <Houston Metals Corp> said thethe first phase of the underground rehabilitation, extensivedrilling and bulk sampling program at its Silver Queen Mine hasyielded positive results.    Houston said representative assays from the 2,750 ft and2,600 ft levels at the south end of the mine established oredeposits in the following ranges: copper, 3.7 pct to 5.08 pct,lead .99 pct to 1.5 pct, zinc six pct to 9.6 pct, silver 15.63pct to 79.92 oz per ton, gold .062 to .19 oz per ton, germanium93 to 103 grams per ton, gallium five to 18 grams per ton.    In addition, Houston Metals said the weighted average of 25diamond-drilled holes 375 ft below the 2,600 foot level and 800ft along the strike assayed gold at .237 oz per ton, silver at10.91 oz per ton and zinc at 8.99 pct.    An apparent parallel vein structure at the 2,600 ft levelreturned similar values, the company said.    It added that preliminary metallurgical tests fromrepresentative bulk ore samples indicate the commercialfeasability of producing a zinc and a copper-lead concentrate.    Houston Metals said gold, silver and the base metals haverecoveries of 90 pct to 95 pct, with 95 pct of gold recoveredfrom better gold ores, while gallium, germanium and indium haverecoveries of between 66 pct to 82 pct and are included in thezinc concentrate.    The company's 1987 program of diamond drilling, undergrounddrifting and metallurgical evaluation is scheduled to start onApril.    Houston Metals said it has a 60 pct interest in the SilverQueen mines.    It added that funds for the program have been provided byFirst Exploration Fund, a Canadian limited partnershipsponsored by Merrill Lynch Canada Inc and Dominion SecuritiesInc. Reuter
WEST GERMANS TO MINT COMMUNITY ANNIVERSARY COIN The West German Cabinet approved a plan tomint a special 10-mark coin commemorating the 30th anniversaryof the European Community this year.    The silver-copper alloy coin will be minted in an editionof 8.35 mln, a Finance Ministry statement said. REUTER
ASARCO LOWERS COPPER PRICE 1.50 CTS TO 67 CTS Asarco Inc said it is decreasing itsdomestic delivered copper cathode price by 1.50 cents to 67.0cents a lb, effective immediately. Reuter
CYPRUS LOWERS COPPER PRICE 1.25 CTS TO 67 CTS Cyprus Minerals Company said it isdecreasing its electrolytic copper cathode price by 1.25 centsto 67.0 cents a pound, effective immediately. Reuter
MAGMA LOWERS COPPER PRICE 0.25 CT TO 65.50 CTS Magma Copper Co, a subsidiary ofNewmont Mining Corp, said it is lowering its copper cathodeprice by 0.25 cent to 65.50 cents a lb, effective immediately. Reuter
INSPIRATION LOWERS COPPER PRICE TO 66.50 CTS/LB Inspiration Consolidated Copper Co, asubsidiary of Inspiration Resources Corp, said it is loweringits base price for full-plate copper cathodes one-half cent to66.50 cents a lb, effective immediately. Reuter
LME DETAILS MARCH 1987 TURNOVER The London Metal Exchange, LME, issuedturnovers for March 1987, with figures for corresponding period1986 in brackets.    All in tonnes except Silver which in troy ounces.    Copper higher grade nil (2,526,425), Standard cathodes nil(6,325), Grade A 2,429,200 (nil), Standard Copper 17,050 (nil),Lead 443,850 (538,750), Zinc High grade 598,550 (304,825),Silver large 10,350,000 (17,400,000), Small nil (2,000),Aluminium 1,693,375 (1,301,850), Nickel 62,004 (65,040).    Cumulative figures for January-March were as follows -Copper higher grade nil (7,703,625), Standard cathodes nil(24,700), Grade A 6,455,525 (nil), Standard Copper 62,075(nil), Lead 1,567,000 (1,979,750), Zinc High grade 1,746,675(1,356,400), Silver large 41,770,000 (65,620,000), Small nil(8,000), Aluminium 4,984,650 (4,974,950), Nickel 199,944(179,328). Reuter
40 MINERS TRAPPED BY FIRE IN GASPE COPPER MINE Some 40 miners were trappedunderground today by a fire in a copper mine in the Gaspe areaof eastern Quebec, officials said.    There were no reports of any deaths.    A mine official said that the fire broke out last night andabout 25 of the miners made it to safety.    He said telephone contact had been established with thetrapped miners but they could not be brought to the surfaceuntil the fire was extinguished.    The cause of the fire was not known. Reuter
NORANDA <NOR> COPPER MINE BLAZE KILLS ONE One miner has died and 44miners remain trapped a half mile underground in a fire at aNoranda Inc copper mine, officials said.    Noranda said 26 miners had made it to a lunch room, wherethey had air and water, but 18 others were unaccounted for.    Two rescue teams were searching for the missing men.    Noranda spokesman Lionel Gleeton said miner Ange-MarieKenney, in his 30s, died when he was caught in thick smokeabout 1,000 feet from the lunch room. His body was found byrescuers. Reuter
NORANDA'S MURDOCHVILLE MINE SHUT DOWN BY FIRE <Noranda Inc> said production at itsMurdochville, Quebec, copper mine was shut down by the firethat trapped 44 miners and killed at least one.    Noranda spokesman Denis Morin said it was impossible tojudge right now how long the shutdown might last, but said hethought it could be at least one week.    The mine produced 1,792,000 metric tons of ore in 1986,Morin said. It has a mineral inventory of 35,065,000 tons.    In the mine's three zones last year, copper grade was 1.10pct at Needle Mountain, 0.30 pct at Copper Mountain Oxide and1.32 pct at Murdochville, Morin said.    Another Noranda spokesman said the smelter at Murdochville,which has not been shut down, has the capacity to treat 218,000tons of mineral concentrate per year.    The smelter treats ore from other mines as well as productfrom the Murdochville facility, he said. Reuter
NORANDA COPPER MINE SHUT DOWN AFTER FIRE Noranda Inc said production at itsMurdochville, Quebec copper mine was shut down by the fire thatbroke out last night, trapping 44 miners and killing one.    Noranda spokesman Denis Morin said it was impossible tojudge how long the shutdown might last but said he thought itcould be at least one week.    The mine produced 1,792,000 tonnes of ore in 1986, Morinsaid. It has a mineral inventory of 35,065,000 tonnes.    In the mine's three zones last year, copper grade was 1.10pct at Needle Mountain, 0.30 pct at Copper Mountain Oxide and1.32 pct at Murdochville, Morin said.    Another Noranda spokesman said the smelter at Murdochville,which has not been shut down, has the capacity to treat 218,000tonnes of mineral concentrate per year.    The smelter treats ore from other mines as well as productfrom the Murdochville facility, he said.    The fire broke out last night in the mine which is situatedin the Gaspe district of eastern Quebec. Reuter
17 MISSING NORANDA MINERS FOUND ALIVE Seventeen miners who weremissing in a copper mine fire were found today and efforts wereunderway to rescue them and 29 others who were trapped but safein an underground lunch room, officials said.    The mine's owner, Noranda Inc. <NOR>, said one miner diedin the fire, six miners escaped unharmed, 29 made it to anunderground lunch room, where they had air and water, and 17were later found safe in other lunch rooms. Reuter
SEVENTEEN MISSING COPPER MINERS FOUND ALIVE Seventeen miners who weremissing in a copper mine fire were found today and efforts wereunderway to rescue them and 29 others who were trapped but safein an underground lunch room, officials said.    The mine's owner, Noranda Inc., said one miner died in thefire, six miners escaped unharmed, 29 made it to an undergroundlunch room, where they had air and water, and 17 were laterfound safe in other lunch rooms. Reuter
RESCUE WORKERS BRINGING MINERS FROM UNDERGROUND Rescue workers are bringingout miners who have been trapped in a <Noranda Inc>copper mine for almost 24 hours by fire which has so far killedone and sent 17 to hospital, company officials said.    "We're working to take the men out - everybody that'sunderground is safe, we're established contact with them andnow it's really just finding out how to take them out," AndreFortier, a vice president with Noranda Minerals, which owns themine said.    Ange-Aime Kenny died after being trapped by smoke from thefire, company officials said. Fortier said he believed all theworkers would be rescued by the end of the night. He said hedid not believe any of the 17 men taken to hospital wereseriously injured. Reuter
NORANDA SAYS FIRE CAUSED 10 MLN DLRS IN DAMAGE <Noranda Inc> said a coppermine fire that killed one miner and trapped 44 others fornearly a day caused an estimated 10 mln Canadian dlrs indamage.    The fire, which started Wednesday and burned for more than24 hours, destroyed the mine's three-year-old conveyor system,officials said.    Michel Lefebvre, vice president of operations, said Norandawill operate the mine at about one third of its normal 72,000short ton annual finished capacity, using above groundreserves, until it decides whether to keep the mine open.    "The events we sustained yesterday and the day before are avery serious setback for Gaspe Mines operations," Lefebvre said.Gaspe Mines is the name of the Noranda division that operatesthe Murdochville mine.    He said it would take four or five months to bringoperations up to full capacity if the company decides to do so,adding that he believes there is a good chance Noranda willfully reopen the mine. Reuter
NORANDA COPPER MINE FIRE CAUSED HEAVY DAMAGE <Noranda Inc> said a coppermine fire that killed one miner and trapped 44 others fornearly a day caused an estimated 10 mln Canadian dlrs indamage.    The fire, which started Wednesday and burned for more than24 hours, destroyed the mine's three-year-old conveyor system,officials said.    Michel Lefebvre, vice president of operations, said Norandawill operate the mine at about one-third of its normal 72,000metric ton annual finished capacity, using above groundreserves, until it decides whether to keep the mine open.    "The events we sustained yesterday and the day before are avery serious setback for Gaspe Mines operations," Lefebvre said.Gaspe Mines is the name of the Noranda division that operatesthe Murdochville mine.    He said it would take four or five months to bringoperations up to full capacity if the company decides to do so,adding that he believes there is a good chance Noranda willfully reopen the mine. Reuter
CYPRUS LOWERS COPPER PRICE ONE CT TO 66 CTS Cyprus Minerals Company said it isdecreasing its electrolytic copper cathode price by one cent  to 66.0 cents a pound, effective immediately. Reuter
CHILE, CHINA TO ESTABLISH PEKING COPPER PLANT The Chilean state copper corporation,Codelco, the privately-owned Chilean copper fabricator Madecoand Chinese interests are to establish a copper tube plant inPeking, Codelco's U.K. Subsidiary Chile Copper Ltd said.    The plant is designed to produce 5,000 tonnes in the firstfive years and 8,000 tonnes as from year six. Total investmentis estimated at 10 mln dlrs, of which the Chileans willcontribute two mln.    Codelco and Madeco have formed the Chilean Wrought CopperCompany to take a 50 pct stake in a new company called PekingSantiago Tube Company with the Chinese holding the other half. Reuter
NORANDA MINE SEEN BELOW FULL OUTPUT FOR MONTHS Noranda Inc said productionwill remain shut down at its fire-damaged copper mine hereuntil it can completely examine the mine.    If it decides to keep the mine open it would take four orfive months before it could resume full production.    Company spokesman Dale Coffin said the investigation couldtake from a few days to several weeks but would not be morespecific.    Noranda said when it resumes production it plans to operatethe mine at about one-third of the normal 72,000 tonnes annualfinished capacity.    The fire, which started Wednesday and burned itself outlate yesterday weakened part of the mine's support structure,Coffin said.    One miner was killed and 56 others were trapped undergroundfor about 24 hours before being brought safely out. Reuter
NORANDA SETS TEMPORARY MINE SHUTDOWN <Noranda Inc> saidproduction will remain shut down at its fire-damaged coppermine here until it can completely examine the mine.    The fire, which started Wednesday and burned itself outlate yesterday, killed one miner and trapped 56 othersunderground for about 24 hours. The 56 were eventually broughtsafely out of the mine.    Company spokesman Dale Coffin said the investigation couldtake from a few days to several weeks, but would not be morespecific.    Noranda said that, when it resumes production, it plans tooperate the mine at about one-third of the normal 72,000 metrictons annual finished capacity.    The fire weakened part of the mine's support structure,Coffin said.    Noranda said if it decides to keep the mine open, it wouldtake four or five months before it could resume fullproduction. Reuter
BALL <BLL> TO SUPPLY PENNY BLANKS TO MINTS Ball Corp said it was awarded aone-year 12,750,000 dlr contract to supply copper-plated zincpenny blanks to the U.S. mints in Philadelphia and Denver.    The new contract, effective in June, calls for shipping23,200,000 pounds of blanks to the mint in Philadelphia and7,600,000 pounds to Denver. It said the blanks will bemanufactured in Greenville, Tenn.    Ball began supplying blanks to the San Francisco and WestPoint mints in 1981 when the penny's content was changed tozinc from copper. Reuter
WESTMIN TO RAISE MYRA FALLS CAPACITY BY 33 PCT Westmin Resources Ltd said itplans to increase capacity at its Myra Falls, British Columbia,base and precious metal mine and mill complex by 33 pct to4,400 short tons of ore a day, subject to regulatory approvals.    The company said the expansion will cost about 24 mln dlrsand could be in operation by 1988.    Economies of scale from the expansion should pay back netexpansion cost in less than one year, Westmin said.    The Myra Falls complex processed 3,257 tons of ore a dayduring 1986. Myra Falls 1986 production was 44,000 ounces ofgold, 966,266 ounces of silver, 45.5 mln lbs of copper, 96.2mln lbs of zinc and 777,000 lbs of lead, a company spokesmansaid.    Myra Falls 1986 production was 44,000 ounces of gold,966,266 ounces of silver, 45.5 mln pounds of copper, 96.2 mlnpounds of zinc and 777,000 pounds of lead, a company spokesmansaid. Reuter
BOND CORP STILL CONSIDERING ATLAS MINING BAIL-OUT Bond Corp Holdings Ltd <BONA.S> and AtlasConsolidated Mining and Development Corp <ATLC.MN> are stillholding talks on a bail-out package for the troubled miningfirm, an Atlas statement said.    Atlas, the Philippines' biggest copper producer, said ithad been hit by depressed world copper prices. It reported anet loss of 976.38 mln pesos in the year ending December 1986,compared with a net loss of 1.53 billion in 1985.    The company said it had been able to cut its losses becauseits scaled-down copper operations in the central island of Cebustarted in the second half of 1986.    Atlas said negotiations were continuing on the acquisitionby Bond of the company's existing bank loans and theirrestructuring into a gold loan.    A memorandum of understanding signed by the two sides inOctober last year said Bond would acquire Atlas' total loans of275 mln dlrs, to be repaid by the mining company in gold.    Atlas said the two sides were also discussing equityinfusion into Atlas and the creation of a development fund forfurther exploration and development of the company's goldproperties in the central province of Masbate.    Wilson Banks, general manager of <Bond Corp InternationalLtd> in Hong Kong, told Reuters the Atlas statement on thenegotiations was "reasonably accurate."    Banks said Bond Corp was seriously considering severalinvestments in the Philippines but did not give details.    In its statement, Atlas said development of the pre-WorldWar Two underground mines in Masbate had been accelerated andthe ore tonnage had increased, extending the operation's lifeat least until 1993. REUTER
TECK STILL IN TALKS ON B.C. COPPER VENTURE <Teck Corp> said itwas continuing talks about joining a joint copper venture atHighland Valley, British Columbia, held by affiliates ComincoLtd <CLT> and <Lornex Mining Corp>, but did not know whennegotiations would be completed.    Teck vice-president of administration John Guminski said inreply to a query that the talks had been "ongoing for a longtime." He declined to speculate on the outcome.    Cominco, 29.5 pct owned by a consortium led by Teck, isoptimistic that the talks will soon be concluded, spokesman DonTownson told Reuters.    "I think all partners are hopeful that the situation will beresolved," Cominco's Townson said.    "We're optimistic that they will be concluded shortly," headded. Townson declined to specify when the talks might end.    Cominco and Teck's 22 pct-owned Lornex agreed in January1986 to form the joint venture, merging their Highland Valleycopper operations.    Cominco and Lornex share equally in control and managementof the Highland Valley operations, while Cominco has a 55 pctshare of production and Lornex receives 45 pct.    For the six months following July 1, 1986, when the ventureofficially started production, Highland Valley had total oremilled of 22.6 mln short tons, grading an average of 0.41 pctcopper, Townson said.    Cominco's share of production was 43,000 short tons ofcopper contained in concentrate, 1,200 short tons of Molybdenumin concentrate, 340,000 ounces of silver and 800 ounces ofgold, he said.    A consortium, 50 pct owned by Teck and 25 pct each by MIM(Canada) Inc and Metallgesellschaft Canada Ltd, acquired itsCominco stake last year from Canadian Pacific Ltd <CP>. Reuter
MAGMA RAISES COPPER PRICE 0.25 CT TO 65.75 CTS Magma Copper Co, a subsidiary ofNewmont Mining Corp, said it is raising its copper cathodeprice by 0.25 cent to 65.75 cents a lb, effective immediately. Reuter
NORANDA BEGINS SALVAGE OPERATIONS AT MURDOCHVILLE <Noranda Inc> said it began salvageoperations at its Murdochville, Quebec, mine, where a fire lastweek killed one miner and caused 10 mln dlrs in damage.     Another 56 miners were trapped underground for as long as24 hours before they were brought to safety.    Noranda said the cause and full extent of the damage isstill unknown but said it does know that the fire destroyed6,000 feet of conveyor belt.     Noranda said work crews have begun securing the rampleading into the zone where the fire was located. The companysaid extreme heat from the fire caused severe rock degradationalong several ramps and drifts in the mine.     Noranda estimated that the securing operation for the zonewill not be completed before the end of April.    Noranda said the Quebec Health and Safety Commission, theQuebec Provincial Police and Noranda itself are each conductingan investigation into the fire.    Production at the mine has been suspended until theinvestigations are complete. The copper mine and smelterproduced 72,000 tons of copper anodes in 1986 and employs 680people.     The smelter continues to operate with availableconcentrate from stockpiled supplies, Noranda said. Reuter Reuter
NORANDA BEGINS MURDOCHVILLE MINE SALVAGE Noranda Inc said it began salvageoperations at its Murdochville, Quebec mine where a fire lastweek killed one miner and caused 10 mln dlrs in damage.     Noranda said the cause and full extent of the damage isstill unknown but the fire destroyed 6,000 feet of conveyorbelt.    The company said extreme heat from the fire caused severerock degradation along several ramps and drifts in the mine.    Production at the mine has been suspended untilinvestigations are complete. The copper mine and smelterproduced 72,000 tons of copper anodes in 1986.     The smelter continues to operate with availableconcentrate from stockpiled supplies, Noranda said. Reuter
ELECTROLYTIC REFINING LOWERS COPPER PRICE The Electrolytic Refining andSmelting Co of Australia Pty Ltd said it lowered its ex-worksPort Kembla Refinery Copper Price by 20 dlrs to 2,160 dlrs atonne, effective today. REUTER
CHINA, CHILE TO BUILD COPPER TUBE PLANT IN CHINA China's state-owned Beijing Non-FerrousMetals Industrial Corp and <Wrought Copper Ltd> of Chile signeda contract to jointly build a copper tube plant on theoutskirts of Peking, the China Daily said.    The Beijing-Santiago Copper Tube Co involves an investmentof 9.93 mln dlrs and will, on completion, have a productioncapacity of 5,000 tonnes of copper tubes a year, it said.    It said Chile will supply copper at preferential rates tothe venture, whose equipment comes from <Wednesbury Tube Co> ofU.K.    The agreement calls for joint Sino-Chilean management ofthe venture for 15 years, the paper said.    It said the venture is the first economic cooperationproject between China and Chile, but gave no more details.    China is a major copper importer. Customs figures show itimported 171,118 tonnes of copper and alloy in calendar 1986,down from 355,652 tonnes in 1985. REUTER
CITY RESOURCES UNIT ACQUIRES PHILIPPINE MINE OPTION <City Resources (Asia) Ltd>, alocally listed unit of Australian based <City Resources Ltd>,said it acquired an 80-day option to buy exploration,development and operating rights for mining property on theisland of Luzon in the Philippines.    It said in a statement that average assay results of randomsamples of the Brescia ore bearing body on the 459-hectare siteshowed 2.4 grammes of gold, 64 grammes of silver and 1.9grammes of copper per tonne.    It said it will exercise the option if tests confirm thesite's potential. Further details were not available. REUTER
MINT REVIEWS OFFERS ON 3,701,000 LBS COPPER The U.S. Mint received 17 offersfrom seven firms at prices ranging from 0.66845-0.6840 dlrs perlb for payment by standard check and 0.66695-0.68 dlrs per lbfor wire transfer payment in a review of offers on 3,701,000lbs of electrolytic copper it is seeking to purchase.    Philipp Brothers, N.Y., led with the lowest offers of0.66695 for wire transfer payment and 0.66845 dlrs per lb to bepaid by check, followed by Cerro Sales Corp, N.Y., with 0.6684dlrs per lb on one mln lbs for wire payment, and 0.6713 dlrsper lb on one mln lbs for standard payment.    Firms, in submitting offers, elect to be paid by standardcheck or wire transfer, with awards based on whichever of thetwo methods is more cost advantageous at that time.    Cerro Sales also offered prices for wire payment of 0.6689dlrs per lb on one mln lbs and 0.6693 dlrs per lb on 1,701,000lbs. Cerro's standard payment offers included 0.6719 dlrs perlb on one mln lbs and 0.6723 dlrs per lb on 1,701,000 lbs.    Cargill Metals, Minneapolis, offered 0.67025 dlrs per lbfor wire payment and 0.67275 dlrs per lb for standard payment,while Elders Raw Materials, Darien, Ct., offered 0.6718 dlrsper lb for wire payment and 0.6735 dlrs per lb for standardpayment on increments of 950,000 lbs each.    Other offers for wire transfer payment include 0.6759 dlrsper lb on 380,000 lbs, submitted by Deak International, N.Y.,0.6789 dlrs per lb on the entire quantity by Diversified MetalsCorp, St. Louis, and 0.68 dlrs per lb by Gerald Metals,Stamford, Ct.    Other standard payment offers include 0.6819 dlrs per lb on950,000 lbs by Diversified Metals, and 0.6840 dlrs per lb onthe entire quantity by Gerald Metals.    The Mint said the copper is for delivery the week of May 11to Olin Corp, East Alton, Ill.    The offers have a minimum acceptance period of threecalendar days, it said. Reuter
U.S. MINT ANNOUNCES COPPER/NICKEL AWARDS The U.S. Mint said it awardedcontracts to Philipp Brothers, N.Y., and Sidney Danziger, a NewYork metals merchant, to procure 3,701,000 lbs ofelectrolytic copper and 629,000 lbs electrolytic cut nickelcathodes or briquettes.    The Mint said Philipp Brothers will supply the entire3,701,000 lbs of copper at a cost of 0.66845 dlrs per lb.    Sidney Danziger will furnish 338,000 lbs of the nickel at1.8344 dlrs per lb, while Phibro will provide 291,000 lbs at1.8369 dlrs per lb, the Mint said. Reuter
ZAMBIA CUTS PRICES AS TROOPS PATROL COPPERBELT The Zambian government today announcedminor price cuts for essential commodities as part of its neweconomic strategy, while police and troops patrolled thenorthern Copperbelt to prevent any outbreaks of rioting.    However, staple foods, such as bread, sugar and maize meal,were not affected by the cuts and many people said this couldprovoke trouble from disgruntled elements who had expected moresweeping reductions.    Observers in the capital expressed disillusionment with thesmall extent of the price cuts, which ranged up to 10 pct onitems such as blankets, soap, detergents and baby food.    Residents in the Copperbelt contacted by telephone saidgovernment forces had set up roadblocks around the main towns.    In Lusaka, business went on as usual and there was no signof troops or police reinforcements on the streets.    President Kaunda had ordered the price reductions to takeaccount of lower import costs following the revaluation of thekwacha to a fixed rate of eight per dlr from 21 on May 1.    The revaluation formed part of a new go-it-alone economicstrategy which Kaunda adopted to replace Zambia's IMF austerityprogram.    Labour leaders in the Copperbelt said last week gangs ofunemployed youths were being formed in the politically volatileregion to take action against shops that did not reduce theirprices after today's deadline. Fifteen people were killed inthe Copperbelt during food riots last December after thegovernment tried to lift maize subsidies. Reuter
LITTLE REACTION TO REMOVAL COMEX DAILY LIMITS The elimination of limits on daily pricefluctuations for metals futures contracts traded on theCommodity Exchange, COMEX, appears to be having little effecton the market, analysts said.    "There is nothing apparent from the change," said WilliamO'Neill, director of futures research at Elders Futures Inc.    "The market has not approached the old price limits andtrading is relative quiet, in narrow ranges," he said.    On May 5, COMEX eliminated price limits on the twocontracts following each spot delivery in gold, silver, copperand aluminum futures after a review of its clearing operations,which were severely tested by a volatile market in silverfutures at the end of April. COMEX announced Friday the liftingof all daily limits, effective today.    Gold futures, which previously had a limit of 25 dlrs perounce in most back months, were about 7.00 dlrs weaker in thenearby contracts amid thin volume conditions, traders said.    Silver futures, previously limited at 50 cents in most backmonths, were trading about 30-40 cts weaker in the nearbycontracts amid quiet trading today.    During the last week of April, silver futures often tradedat the daily allowable limit amid concerns about inflation, thedollar, and other factors. Traders rushed into the spot, orunlimited, contract to offset those moves, analysts said.    As a result, O'Neill said, there was much confusion, manyunmatched trades, and large losses for some traders.    The COMEX fined four large firms a total of 100,000 dlrsfor failure to resolve unmatched trades in a timely manner.    Paul Cain, a vice president at Shearson Lehman Brothers,said the elimination of price limits will cut back on panicbuying or selling and contribute to more orderly markets.    O'Neill added that the elimination of daily limits wouldadd caution to trading.    "This is a more realistic approach because the metalsmarket is a 24 hours market and prices can move without limit,"O'Neill said. Reuter
MUELLER BRASS LOWERS PRODUCT PRICES Mueller Brass Co said thateffective with shipments today, it is adjusting the price ofall brass mill products, except free-cutting brass rod andrelated alloys and copper water tube and related products, toreflect contained copper values at 73 cents a pound, down twocents.    Reuter
PHELPS DODGE <PD> SEES STRONGER COPPER PRICES Phelps Dodge Corp officials said goodfundamentals in copper markets should lead to improving pricesfor the metal.    In an interview with Reuters, chairman G. Robert Durhamsaid continued strong demand and low inventories pushed pricesup eight to nine pct on the New York Commodities Exchange lastmonth.    "Our customers in this country are living off the tailgatesof our trucks," he said, referring to tightness of supply andstrong demand. "The fundamentals are good."       Asked if metal prices will continue to rise, Durham said;"All I know is, fundamentals cannot be ignored."    He said copper supplies are lower than they have been foralmost 20 years. Last year, copper demand was second highest onrecord behind 1984, he said.    Phelps Dodge is the nation's largest copper company, withannual production expected to reach 500,000 tons this year.       During the interview, executive vice president DouglasYearley said he believed it was only a matter of time beforethe copper price rose "because there aren't that many newprojects coming on, and demand, short of a major recession,will continue to grow modestly."    Copper for July delivery rose more than two cts a pound tomore than 69 cents in Comex trading today. A one cent a poundrise in copper prices yields 10 mln dlrs in annual earnings forPhelps Dodge, the company said.    "Demand has been surprisingly good in 1987, in constructionand other areas," Yearley said.       New production later this year from a Bingham, Utah, mineowned by Kennecott Corp, a unit of British Petroleum Co PLC's<BP> Standard Oil Co, a mine in New Guinea and Phelps Dodge'sown expanded Morenci, Ariz., mine will be offset by productionshortfalls in Mexico and Zambia, he said.    Durham said production costs at the New Mexico-locatedChino mine will be in line with conventional copper productionat the company's other mines by the fourth quarter. Thecompany's total production costs, including depreciation butbefore interest and corporate expense, should be below 50 cts apound by late 1989 or 1990, he said. Reuter
PHELPS DODGE <PD> SETS SIGHTS ON ACQUISITION Phelps Dodge Corp chairman G. RobertDurham said the company is prepared to make another largenon-copper acquisition and that a deal could be struck in thenear future.    In an interview with Reuters, Durham said the company wasexamining potential candidates but not yet talking with any.    He declined to name the companies but said a deal couldoccur as soon as the second half of 1987.       Phelps Dodge, which ranks as the largest copper producer inthe U.S., last year paid 240 mln dlrs for Columbian ChemicalsCo, a maker of carbon black which is used in rubber and tiresamong other products.    The purchase was part of a strategic plan to diversify andeventually match earnings from non-copper operations and copperoperations.    Phelps Dodge could spend between 250 mln and 500 mln dlrsto buy another non-copper company, Durham said, citing about100 mln dlrs of cash and 580 mln dlrs of untapped bank credit.       Any acquisition candidate would have to have a differenteconomic cycle than copper, substantial earnings and goodmanagement, he said. Phelps Dodge would only want a friendlydeal, he added.    "We're not talking high-tech, or financial services orabout a perfume company," he said. "We want a good basicindustrial company that will fit into our managementstructure," Durham said.       During the interview, Durham and other executives also saidcontinued strong demand and tight copper supply should lead tohigher prices for the metal.    "In my view, it's not a matter of if but when the price(for copper) will improve because there aren't that many newprojects coming on, and demand, short of a major recession,will continue to grow modestly," said executive vice presidentDouglas Yearley. Phelps Dodge continues to lower its cost ofproducing copper, the executives said. Costs should be below 50cents a pound, after depreciation but before interest andcorporate expense, by 1989 or 1990.    Production costs are about 56 to 57 cents a pound nowcompared to one dlr a pound in 1981, some Wall St analystssaid.    Durham said copper supplies are lower than they have beenfor almost 20 years and demand continued to be strong.    He declined to project results for the second quarter oryear. But he said the quarter was going well and the rise incopper prices in the last month will help results.    Durham said last month that the second quarter should matchthe first quarter when earnings rose about 11 pct to 16.8 mlndlrs or 49 cts a share.    First quarter sales rose 61.5 pct to 372.9 mln dlrs,reflecting the acquisition of Columbian Chemicals and increasedcopper shipments from the Chino copper mine in New Mexico, alsoacquired last year.    Analysts are projecting 1987 earnings of 2.20 dlrs to 2.75dlrs a share, up sharply from 1.79 dlrs in 1986. Reuter
PHELPS DODGE SEEKS TO DIVERSIFY MORE FROM COPPER Phelps Dodge Corp is prepared to makeanother large non-copper acquisition and a deal could be struckin the near future, chairman G. Robert Durham said.    Durham told Reuters the company was examining potentialcandidates but not yet talking with any. Any acquisition musthave a different economic cycle to copper, he said.    Phelps Dodge, the largest U.S. copper producer, last yearpaid 240 mln dlrs for Columbian Chemicals Co which makes carbonblack used in rubber and tires. The purchase was part of astrategic plan to diversify and then match earnings betweencopper and non-copper operations.    The company could spend between 250 mln and 500 mln dlrs tobuy another non-copper firm, Durham said, citing 100 mln dlrsof cash and 580 mln dlrs of untapped bank credit. Reuter
OLIN <OLN>, NIPPON-GAKKI'S YAMAHA IN PACT Olin Corp said it formed a jointventure with the Yamaha Group of Japan's Nippon-Gakki Co LTd tomanufacture Olin's high-performance copper alloys in Japan forsale in the Far East.    The new firm, Yamaha-Olin Metal Corp, will share facilitieswith Yamaha in Iwata, which are expected to come on line in thethird quarter of 1988., it said.    The two companies first joined forces in August 1983 whenYamaha agreed to process and market one of Olin's alloys. Theagreement led to a 1985 reroll agreement that involved a numberof alloys, it said. Reuter
OLIN NIPPON-GAKKI'S YAMAHA IN PACT Olin Corp said it formed a jointventure with the Yamaha Group of Japan's Nippon-Gakki Co Ltd tomanufacture Olin's high-performance copper alloys in Japan forsale in the Far East.    The new firm, Yamaha-Olin Metal Corp, will share facilitieswith Yamaha in Iwata, which are expected to come on line in thethird quarter of 1988., it said.    The two companies first joined forces in August 1983 whenYamaha agreed to process and market one of Olin's alloys. Theagreement led to a 1985 reroll agreement that involved a numberof alloys, it said. Reuter
MIM RAISES COPPER PRICES BY 20 DOLLARS Mount Isa Mines Ltd <MIMA.S> said itraised its copper prices by 20 dlrs to 2,220 dlrs per tonne forcathodes and to 2,387.50 dlrs per tonne for standard rods,effective June 17. REUTER
ZINC CONCENTRATE SUPPLY SHORTFALL SEEN IN 1988 Next year is likely to see a shortfallin zinc concentrates of up to 100,000 tonnes, although thereshould be ample supply in 1987, Shearson Lehman Brothers Ltdmetals analyst Stephen Briggs said.    Speaking on the second day of Metal Bulletin's base metalsconference, Briggs said the major factor in his predicted100,000 tonne shortfall in zinc concentrate supply in 1988 wasthe imminent cessation of new mining and termination of millingat Pine Point in Canada.    However, this could be partially offset by some stockpiles.    Nevertheless, despite this predicted shortfall there wasunlikely to be any dramatic change in treatment charges in1988. The picture for 1987, on the other hand, was one ofrecord production of zinc metal with fewer strikes anticipatedin Canada, some improvement in South America and new capacityin South Korea.    "Dramatic new record levels of concentrate output are alsoexpected in 1987," Briggs said.    This would partly be due to a return to more normal levelsat existing mines in Australia and Peru, allied withachievement of full capacity of 170,000 tonnes a year at Faroin Canada.    Looking further forward, the major event was the probableopening in 1991 of the Red Dog mine in Alaska with a capacityof 300,000 tonnes of concentrates a year.    "Once this mine is fully on stream it is unlikely that therewill be a major shortage of concentrates in the early 1990s," headded.    The picture for lead was also closely allied to that ofzinc, with no new dedicated lead mines planned and thereforesupply of concentrates largely dependent on by-products fromzinc mines.    "On this basis, our calculations point to a modestoversupply of lead concentrates in 1987," Briggs said.    The copper forecast, however, was for a recordnon-Socialist output of 6.6 mln tonnes of concentrates in 1987,increasing by a further 150,000 tonnes in 1988.    Production of primary refined copper metal would alsoincrease, but not by as much as concentrate output, leading toa moderate oversupply of concentrates of up to 150,000 tonnesthis year and with no shortages predicted for the rest of thedecade, he said. REUTER
ZAMBIAN COPPER INDUSTRY HOPES FOR STEADY OUTPUT Zambia's copper mining industry is hopingto achieve and maintain production at over 500,000 tonnes ayear in the next few years despite low world prices,deteriorating ores and shortages of mine inputs, industryofficials said.    But Zambia's decision to abandon last May 1 a toughInternational Monetary Fund (IMF) economic recovery program hasintroduced an element of uncertainty into plans to restructurethe ailing industry and boost profitability, they said.    Copper production by the government-controlled ZambiaConsolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM) for the 1987 financial yearended March 31 improved slightly to about 471,000 tonnes from arecord 1986 low of 463,354 tonnes.    "We are convinced that by the end of the 1988 financialyear, copper production could well be over 500,000 tonnes dueto greater availability of spares and equipment," a ZCCMofficial said.    ZCCM officials said the production of cobalt, anotherstrategic income earner, will also be tailored to meet demand.    Finished production in 1986 was 4,565 tonnes, 911 tonneshigher than the previous year and the best production achievedto date.    Protracted low world metal prices have badly hit the copperindustry in Zambia, the world's fifth biggest producer. Miningis monopolised by ZCCM and accounts for about 90 pct of thecountry's foreign exchange earnings.    Production has also been seriously affected in recent yearsby equipment breakdowns, deteriorating ore and shortages ofspare parts, fuel and lubricants. The 463,354 tonnes outputlast year compared with a peak 1975 output of 700,000 tonnes.    A five-year production and investment plan launched in 1984by ZCCM is being funded by the European Community, the AfricanDevelopment Bank and the World Bank.    The plan foresees the shutdown of some seven mining andmetallurgical units on the grounds they are unprofitable.    ZCCM, the second largest employer after the government, hassaid it intends to lay off 20,000 of its 60,000 workforce aspart of the plan.    More than 250 mln dlrs have so far been channelled into theindustry in a bid to improve efficiency and profitability underthe five-year restructuring plan.    Company officials said although reserves were beingdepleted, Zambia could continue to produce copper beyond theend of the century, though at lower levels of production.    Industry sources said ZCCM's projected pre-tax profit forthe financial year ended March 31 would be around 500 mlnkwacha. But with the current mineral export tax level beinglevied, a net loss is likely to be registered.    ZCCM recorded a net loss of 718 mln kwacha in 1986 comparedwith a net profit of 19 mln kwacha the year before.    Under the foreign exchange auction system introduced in1985, ZCCM's profits from its foreign exchange earnings rose asthe value of the kwacha fell to 21 to the dollar from just overtwo to the dollar.    But on May 1, President Kenneth Kaunda abolished theauctioning system, inspired by the International Monetary Fund,and announced Zambia would pursue a go-it-alone economicstrategy based on national resources.    ZCCM officials are still cautious over what effects thebreak with the IMF will have on the industry's plans.    "We are still consulting to see how the new measures willaffect us but it is too early to say just how we shall fareunder the new situation," Peter Hansen, director of operationsand third in the ZCCM hierarchy, told Reuters.    Some analysts believe the new officially-fixed exchangerate of eight kwacha to the dollar will hit ZCCM's exportprofits.    "Most specialists I have talked to tell me the break-evenpoint for ZCCM is a rate of 10 kwacha per dollar," FrederickChiluba, leader of the Zambian Congress of Trade Unions said.    High production costs continue to bedevil the Zambianindustry.    Zambia mines copper at a relatively expensive rate of 69cents per pound, compared with 55 cents in the United Statesand under 40 cents in Chile.    The industry also faces transport problems due to Zambiabeing landlocked. The government confirmed this year it hadstopped sBending copper south through South Africa.    Over 80 pct of shipments, some 35,000 tonnes a month, aresent by rail to the Tanzanian port of Dar-es-Salaam, while5,000 tonnes go via Zimbabwe to the Mozambique port of Beira.Transport has often been hit by shortages of wagons, spares andfuel. Reuter
INSPIRATION CUTS COPPER PRICE 0.50 CT TO 74 CTS Inspiration Consolidated Copper Co, asubsidiary of Inspiration Resources Corp, said it is loweringits base price for full-plate copper cathodes by 0.50 cent to74.0 cents a lb, effective immediately.   Reuter
CIPEC STUDYING COPPER MARKET BACKWARDATION The Paris-based Intergovernmental Councilof Copper Exporting Countries (CIPEC) is closely studying thecurrent backwardation in world copper market prices but doesnot envisage taking corrective action at present, CIPEC sourceshere said.    The organisation's executive and marketing committeesreviewed the current market situation during a series ofmeetings here late last week, but took no major decisions.    The sources noted that the backwardation - premium ofnearby supply over forward delivery - dates back several weeksand is the longest on record.   "It's unusual," one official said, but added CIPEC did nothave any immediate recipe to remedy the situation.    The meetings featured a gathering of the 10 directors ofCIPEC's regional copper development and promotion centres,which are based in Europe, Japan, India and Brazil.    Their main aim was to prepare the ground for the annualministerial meeting of CIPEC, which is scheduled for Zaire inlate September.    The last three ministerial meetings have been held in Paristo keep down costs. Reuter
OUTOKUMPU IN COPPER DEAL WITH IBERICA DEL COBRE Finland's state-owned mining companyOutokumpu Oy said in a statement it was entering Spanishmarkets as a shareholder in Iberica del Cobre, S.A., amanufacturer of copper products.    Outokumpu will acquire 21 pct of the shares in the Spanishcompany and a company will be set up as an agent for OutokumpuSpain. The deal awaits approval by the Spanish government.    Iberica del Cobre makes tubes, rods, rolled and drawncopper and alloy products and its sales of 87,000 tonnes ofoutput in 1986 amounted to 22 billion pesetas. Outokumpu'sturnover in 1986 was 7.58 billion markka. Reuter
COMEX RAISING MARGINS FOR GOLD AND COPPER  FUTURES EFFECTIVE AT TODAY'S OPENING -  Stockbrokers and legislators welcomedthe suspension of trading on the local market after Monday'srecord fall, but some said the suspension was too long andcould harm the territory's reputation as a financial centre.    Announcing the suspension until next Monday, stock exchangechairman Ronald Li said earlier today "This will protectinvestors and allow brokers to settle a backlog of orders."    But legislator David Li, who is also managing director ofthe Bank of East Asia, while weloming the move, said a one-dayhalt would have been enough.    "I believe the exchange is over-reacting. A long suspensionwill damage Hong Kong's reputation as a financial centre andhurt foreign investors' confidence," David Li said.    Legislator Hui Yin-fat echoed this view. "What will they doif the market resumes its fall next week ?" he asked.    Legislator Lee Yu-tai said small investors would behard-hit by the decision. He said some were paying interest onloans to purchase stock and a long suspension increased theirlosses.    Financial Secretary Piers Jacobs said the decision wasexplainable, but he added, "It does seem rather a long time."    However, George Tan, assistant director of GreenwellMontagu (Far East) Ltd, said the suspension was wise. "Hong Kongis a volatile market and this will let things settle down," hesaid.    Other brokers agreed. "At least this gives us a bit ofbreathing space," said one.    John MacKenzie, chairman of the Hong Kong Association ofBanks, said "I feel that it is not at all a bad thing thatinvestors and investment mnanagers be given a breathing space."    Hong Kong's main share indicator, the Hang Seng index, fell420.81 points to 3,362.39 on Monday - its biggest ever one-dayfall in real terms. REUTER
