INDONESIAN AGRICULTURE GROWTH EXPECTED TO SLOW Indonesia"s agriculture sector will growby just 1.0 pct in calendar 1987, against an estimated 2.4 pctin 1986 as the production of some commodities stagnates ordeclines, the U.S. Embassy said in a report.    Production of Indonesia"s staple food, rice, is forecast tofall to around 26.3 mln tonnes from an embassy estimate of26.58 mln tonnes in 1986, according to the annual report onIndonesia"s agricultural performance.    The government officially estimates 1986 rice production at26.7 mln tonnes, with a forecast 27.3 mln tonnes output in1987.    The report says wheat imports are likely to fall to 1.5 mlntonnes in calendar 1987 from 1.69 mln tonnes in 1986 because ofa drawdown on stocks.    "Growth prospects for agriculture in 1987 do not lookpromising as rice production is forecast to decline and theproduction of sugarcane, rubber and copra show little or nogain," the report says.    "The modest overall increase which is expected will be dueto significant gains in production of corn soybeans, palm oiland palm kernels."    Constraints to significant overall increases inagricultural output include a shortage of disease resistantseeds, limited fertile land, insect pests and a reluctance byfarmers to shift from rice production to other crops, thereport underlines.    The fall in rice production is caused by an outbreak ofpests known as "wereng" or brown plant hoppers in 1986 whichlargely offset gains in yields.    The outbreak has forced the government to ban the use of 57insecticides on rice because it was believed the wereng are nowresistant to these varieties, and to use lower-yielding, moreresistant rice types.    The government is depending on increased production ofexport commodities such as coffee, tea, rubber, plywood andpalm oil to offset revenue losses brought on by falling crudeoil prices.    Palm oil production is expected to increase by over 7.0 pctin 1987 to 1.45 mln tonnes from 1.35 mln, with exports risingto an estimated 720,000 tonnes from 695,000 tonnes in 1986, thereport says.    But while production of soybeans in 1987/88 (Oct-Sept) willrise to 1.075 mln tonnes from 980,000 in 1986/87, imports willalso rise to supply a new soybean crushing plant.    The report says that imports of wheat, soybeans, soybeanmeal and cotton are not likely to decline as a result of lastSeptember"s 31 pct devaluation of the rupiah because of a risein domestic demand.    The report said that Indonesia"s overall economicperformance in calendar 1986 was about zero or even a slightnegative growth rate, the lowest rate of growth since themid-1960s. It compares with 1.9 pct growth in 1985 and 6.7 pctin 1984.    The dramatic fall in oil prices last year was responsiblefor the slump. REUTER
INDONESIA UNLIKELY TO IMPORT PHILIPPINES COPRA Indonesia is unlikely to import coprafrom the Philippines in 1987 after importing 30,000 tonnes in1986, the U.S. Embassy's annual agriculture report said.    The report said the 31 pct devaluation of the Indonesianrupiah, an increase in import duties on copra and increases inthe price of Philippines copra have reduced the margin betweenprices in the two countries.    Indonesia's copra production is forecast at 1.32 mln tonnesin calendar 1987, up from 1.30 mln tonnes in 1986. REUTER
PHILIPPINE COCONUT CHIEF TO LOBBY AGAINST EC TAX Philippine Coconut Authority (PCA)chairman Jose Romero said he would visit Brussels later thismonth to lobby against a proposed 100 pct European Community(EC) levy on vegetable oil imports.    "I intend to visit Brussels and talk to whoever is puttingup this devilish scheme to impoverish third world countrieslike the Philippines," Romero said in an interview.    He said he did not know how much support the levy hadwithin the EC but he said he believed those originally opposedto the tax were under pressure to change their position.    Romero said a group of EC members led by West Germany, theNetherlands, Denmark and Norway were opposed to the tax. Butthere was a danger some of them would be persuaded to changesides, and if that happened opposition could crumble.    Romero said another threat to exports lay in an EC warningthat copra meal cake used in livestock feeds containeddangerous levels of aflatoxin, a carcinogenic chemical.    He said the EC standard of 0.02 parts of aflatoxin permillion parts of meal, which EC countries had been asked toapply by October 1988, was too rigid. He said Philippine copracake contained much higher levels of aflatoxin.    Aflatoxin comes from moulds which develop in copra when itis not properly dried or ground.    Romero said he would tell big buyers of copra meal inLondon that the Philippines was doing its best to meet ECstandards. It was also trying to eliminate aflatoxin totally,but this was likely to take several years of research.    Copra meal exports were 817,641 tonnes or 35 pct of totalcoconut exports in 1986. The meal was worth 73.5 mln dlrs.    Romero said he would also visit Oxford University'sdepartment of agricultural economics to discuss ways ofavoiding the copra process altogether.    "There are ways of producing coconut products outside ofcopra," Romero said. "We can process fresh coconut without dryingthe meat in the sun. Through the wet process we can processcoconuts into other food or non-food products, or we can go tothe chemical root."    He said there was a tendency for agricultural countries tobecome more protectionist and he expected export prices ofcoconut products to drop.    "In the long term we will be getting less and less for moreand more production, and I'm not comfortable with that," hesaid.    With countries like Indonesia and Malaysia stepping upproduction of palm oil, a coconut oil substitute, palm oiloutput had risen nearly 70 pct since 1971, Romero said.    "To add to that the U.S. Soybean Association is spendingbillions of dollars to discredit palm oil and coconut oil bysaying that they are polysaturated fats and bad for the heart,"he said.    Romero said he expected coconut product export prices tostay up for the rest of the year. They would probably touch ahigh of 20 cents/pound from the current level of 18.59 cents,and a sharp rise from year-ago levels of 10.50 cents.    Romero said the Philippines was at the end of a five-yearcoconut production cycle which showed production tended to fallafter two successive years of good harvests.    He said 1985 and 1986 were good harvests and this year, toadd to the production fall, drought had affected output.    "Traders are stocking up and when they have overbought theprices will start declining again. The only sure way to keepprices stable is by processing, adding more value," he said.    Coconut farmers were being encouraged to intercrop byplanting other cash crops between coconut trees, he said.    "A typical farm may have from 100 to 150 trees sitting on10,000 square metres of land. That's a lot of space," Romerosaid. He said the government's proposed land reform programwould exclude about 75 pct of the coconut farmers because theyhad less than the proposed seven-hectares of land.    "If the idea of land reform is to increase income levels,production and employment then it won't happen," he said.    PCA figures show about one-third of the country'spopulation is dependent on the coconut industry.    Coconuts are planted on about 3.2 mln hectares orone-fourth of total agricultural land. REUTER
