SWISS ECONOMY IN EXCELLENT CONDITION, OECD SAYS Switzerland's economy, combining lowunemployment, financial stability and a large external paymentssurplus, is in excellent condition and faces a satisfactoryfuture, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation andDevelopment, OECD, said.    This reflected the success of stable and relatively tightfiscal and monetary policies followed by the government, itsaid.    The OECD, in its annual report on Switzerland, picked outsome signs of a slowdown in activity and a slight pick-up ininflation this year, but said these gave no cause for concern.    The study forecast a decline in Gross Domestic Productgrowth to 1.75 pct this year from an estimated two pct in 1986and a small rise in consumer price inflation to 1.25 pct afterlast year's sharp fall to 0.75 pct from 3.6 pct in 1985.    But it said job creation should continue to absorb a modestincrease in the workforce, leaving the unemployment rateunchanged at around one pct, the lowest in the 24-industrialnation OECD area.    Assuming an average exchange rate of 1.71 Swiss francs tothe dollar this year, against 1.69 in the second half of 1986,the report forecast a 2.75 pct rise in exports and a 3.5 pctrise in imports this year after rises of 3.25 pct and 6.5 pctrespectively in 1986.    The faster growth of imports compared with exports thisyear and last, reflecting buoyant private consumption, meantthat the contribution of the foreign payments balance to GDPwould shrink in both years.    But "given Switzerland's large external surplus, thereshould be no concern if domestic demand grows faster thanGDP...Which, if only in a small way, would contribute toimproving international balances," the OECD said.    Real private consumption appeared to have been unusuallybuoyant last year, with a 3.25 pct growth rate, after severalyears of relative weakness, it noted.    In 1987 private consumption was expected to slow somewhatto a 2.25 pct growth rate, but should still outstrip overallGDP, it added.    The outlook for investment in plant and machinery remainedbright into 1987, and with capacity use at near record levelslast year there was scope for rationalisation and modernisationin both the industry and service sectors, it said.    As a consequence, growth in machinery and equipmentinvestment is likely to decelerate only slightly this yearafter vigorous growth in 1986.    But the report raised a questionmark over the prospects fortourism and the banking industry, two major service sectorearners of foreign exchange.    The long-term appreciation of the Swiss Franc, and theaccelerating deregulation of foreign banking markets, couldlead to a loss of international market share for both, it said.    Particularly for the banks, "recent developments ininternational financial markets give rise to the questionwhether the Swiss financial system, which has shown substantialflexibility in the past, is adapting itself at the speedrequired ... To preserve its competitive position," it said. REUTER
FRANCE FACES PRESSUE TO CHANGE POLICIES France's right wing government is facinggrowing pressure to modify its economic policies after revisingdown its 1987 growth targets and revising up its inflationforecasts for this year.    Moving reluctantly into line with most private sectorforecasts the government yesterday raised its 1987 inflationestimate a half percentage point to 2.5 per cent and cut itseconomic growth estimate to between two and 2.8 per cent from a2.8 per cent target written into the annual budget lastseptember.    Finance Minister Edouard Balladur said the revised figureswould not push the government off its chosen mix of pricederegulation, budget-cutting rigour and pay restraint.    But Trade Union leaders served immediate notice they wouldpush to protect the purchasing power of their members, raisingthe spectre of a vicious spiral of wage and price rises.    And bank economists contacted by Reuters said they believedPrime Minister Jacques Chirac could be forced by slow growthand rising unemployment to reflate the economy later this year,perhaps in the autumn, to boost his prospects in Presidentialelections due by April 1988.    "The outlook is more worrying than it was a few weeks ago,"said Societe Generale economist Alain Marais. "We have theimpression it may be difficult to get even two per cent growththis year."    "The big question is whether the government's policy of wagemoderation will be maintained," he added.    The government has set public sector wage rises at aboout1.7 per cent this year, with a three per cent ceiling for risesjustified by increased productivity.    But the head of the socialist CFDT union federation, EdmondMaire, meeting with Chirac today, renewed union demands alreadyrejected by the government for indexation clauses to be builtinto future pay contracts to safeguard workers against higherprices.    Calling the government's policies "unbalanced and unjust," healso demanded investment incentives to boost employment. Heannounced after his meeting that Chirac had told him thegovernment would spend two billion francs on a series ofmeasures to boost employment and training    Andre Bergeron, a widely respected leader of the moderateForce Ouvriere labour group, put similar demands to Chiracearlier in the week while the Communist-led CGT, the largest ofFrance's unions, declared the defence of its members earningsits top priority.    But with unemployment nearing 11 per cent last month, andstill rising, government supporters and some economic analystssaid they were confident Chirac could resist union pay demands.    "Salary indexation was ended by the previous Socialistgovernment and I dont think this administration is going toreverse that," commented Michel Develle, economist atrecently-privatised Banque Paribas.    Damaging transport and electricity strikes over Christmasand the New Year, partly blamed by the government for higherinflation, had undermined the unions power and popularity, hesaid.    Develle said Paribas expected inflation to rise even morethan the governments revised forecast, perhaps to 2.6 or 2.7per cent this year against last years 2.1 per cent.    "But that would still be an exceptional achievementconsidering that for the first time since the Second World Warall french prices have been freed," he commented.    Finance Ministry officials said that the governmentsabolition of price and rent controls last year was responsiblefor nearly a quarter of a 0.9 per cent surge in January livingcosts.    But they claimed it was a once-off phenomenon that shouldhave no knock-on impact on the rest of the year.    Both Marais and Develle said they agreed with that, so longas the government kept wages under control.    Prices could rise 1.5 per cent in the first three months of1987 and two per cent in the first half year, fractionally morethan forecast this week by the National Statistics Institute,INSEE,  Marais said. But the second half year should be better,he added.    Ironically, one side effect of higher inflation could be tohelp the government achieve its aim of cutting the state budgetdeficit, several analysts said.    So long as public sector wages are held down, higher ValueAdded Tax receipts resulting from rising prices should offset aloss in revenues that otherwise would result from slower thanexpected growth, they said.    Reuter
JAPAN CONSUMER PRICES FALL 0.4 PCT IN JANUARY Japan's unadjusted consumer price index(base 1985) fell 0.4 pct to 99.7 in January from the previousmonth, the government's Management and Coodination Agency said.    The fall compares with a decline of 0.2 pct in December.    The January index compared with a year earlier was down 1.1pct, the first drop larger than 1.0 pct since it fell 1.3 pctin September 1958.    Food costs rose in January from December but prices fellfor clothing, footwear and utilities, causing the overalldecline for the month.    Housing, medical and educations costs increased in Januarycompared with a year earlier but the cost of utilities,gasoline and vegetables fell.    The unadjusted consumer price index for the Tokyo area(base 1985) was down 0.1 pct in mid-February from a monthearlier at 100.2, reflecting lower prices for food, clothingand footwear. Compared with a year earlier, the index was down0.7 pct due to lower vegetable, fuel oil and utility costs. REUTER
ITALY CONSUMER PRICES RISE 0.4 PCT IN FEBRUARY Italy's consumer price index rose 0.4 pctin February compared with January after rising 0.6 pct inJanuary over December, the national statistics institute(Istat) said.    The year-on-year rise in February was 4.2 pct down from 4.5pct in January and compared with 7.6 pct in February 1986.    Istat said its consumer prices index for the families ofworkers and employees (base 1985) was 109.1 in February against108.7 in January and 104.7 in February 1986. REUTER
CHILEAN CONSUMER PRICES RISE 1.7 PCT IN FEBRUARY Chile's consumer price index rose 1.7pct in February to 562.01 (December, 1978 equals 100) afterincreases of 2.0 pct in January and 0.9 pct in February 1986,the government's National Statistics Institute said.    Inflation as measured by the index rose to 17.5 pct overthe 12 months to the end of February, compared with 16.6 pctlast month and 24.5 pct to the end of February, 1986.    In the first two months of the year, inflation was 3.8 pct,against 3.6 pct in the same period of 1986. REUTER
COLOMBIAN INFLATION RISES 2.03 PCT IN FEBRUARY colombia's cost of living index rose 2.03pct in february after a 3.27 pct increase in january and a 3.15pct rise in february 1986, the government statistics institutesaid.    The rise brought year-on-year inflation to 19.77 pctcompared with 23.72 pct at end-february 1986 and 21.66 pct forthe year ending january 1987.    The government has predicted that inflation this year wouldbe lower than in 1986 when it reached 20.9 pct. Reuter
ARGENTINE INFLATION ROSE 6.5 PCT IN FEBRUARY Argentina's cost of living indexgrew 6.5 pct in January, down from last month's 7.6 pct, theNational Statistics Institute said.    It said consumer prices rose 98.9 pct over the last 12months, against 81.9 pct inflation in the calendar year 1986. Reuter
ECUADOR'S CONSUMER PRICES RISE 2.5 PCT IN FEBRUARY Ecuador's consumer price index rose 2.5pct in February to 562.4 (base 1978), the National Statisticsand Census Institute said.    The rise compared to a 1.8 pct rise in January and a 2.5pct rise in February 1986.    The Institute said accumulated overall inflation for thefirst two months of this year was 4.0 pct compared to 5.0 pctfor the same period last year.    Inflation for the 12 months ending February 1987 was 25.5pct compared to 13.0 pct for the 12 months ending February1986. REUTER
DUTCH PLANNING AGENCY FORECASTS LOWER GROWTH Dutch economic growth is slowing as afirming guilder cuts competitiveness abroad and industriesreduce the pace of investment, the Dutch official planningagency CPB said.    The Centraal Planbureau, publishing its 1987 economicoutlook, said Dutch Net National Income (NNI) was expected togrow by one pct this year, down from two pct growth recorded in1986 and 2.5 pct in 1985 and 1984.    Dutch Gross National Product is expected to rise to 432.20billion guilders in 1987 in constant prices, a two pct increasefrom last year's 423.95 billion.    The CPB, forecasting an 8.5 pct increase in the value ofthe guilder on a trade-weighted basis compared with 10.0 pctlast year, said the dollar was expected to trade at an averageof 2.0 guilders in 1987 compared with 2.45 guilders in 1986.    "The higher guilder is causing a substantial fall in unitlabour costs abroad, when measured in guilder terms, whilethese are rising slightly in the Netherlands," the CPB said.    More of economic growth now depended on domesticconsumption, the CPB said, but noting that higher margins setby domestic producers and importers mitigated the effect onpurchasing power of lower import costs and deflation.    Consumer prices were set to fall by 1.5 pct this year, theCPB said. Inflation was zero last year.    Gross investment in industry was expected to grow by fivepct this year, a slowdown compared with 11.5 pct growth lastyear, the CPB said.    Exchange rate and oil price fluctuations will continue tocondition the Dutch economy in the future as it has in recentyears, the CPB said, noting a continued depressing impact ofthese factors on Dutch competitiveness.    In addition, it noted a slight rise in taxation and socialsecurity costs to employers.    The CPB, forecasting a rise in the budget deficit to 7.2pct of Net National Income in 1987 from 6.3 pct last year,urged the government to cut expenditure further to bring downthe deficit and reduce tax and social security payments infuture.    Dutch government revenue is being depressed further byfalling income from natural gas sales in 1987, the CPB said.    It said unemployment was expected to fall to 675,000 thisyear from 710,000 last year.    While the two pct GDP growth forecast set by the CPB iswithin its latest forecast, issued last month, of 1.5 to twopct growth, the figure is well above recent market estimates.    Dutch merchant bank Pierson, Heldring en Pierson said inits February economic outlook that GDP growth at constantprices was expected to be 1.1 pct this year and market analystshad expected the CPB's final forecast to be below its ownlatest estimate.    "It is too early to comment because I haven't seen the wholedocument yet, but it would seem we are more pessimistic in someof our estimates," a Pierson economist said.    The CPB forecast 2.5 pct export growth in volume terms in1987, after four pct growth last year. Excluding energyexports, the 1987 figure would be two pct, it said.    Imports were set to rise by 4.5 pct this year compared withfour pct in 1986 in volume terms, the CPB said.    The balance of payments would see a sharp decline in thesurplus, to six billion guilders in 1987 compared with 12.1billion last year, the CPB forecast. REUTER
WORLD BANK REPORT CRITICISES PERU ECONOMIC PLAN A confidential World Bank report on thePeruvian economy has said the government's strategy does notoffer good prospects for medium and long-term growth and islikely to lead to an early renewal of inflationary pressure.    The report, published today by the economic monthly, ThePeru Report, said the success of president Alan Garcia'sgovernment in stimulating output last year to achieve a growthin gross domestic product of over eight pct "represents gains inthe short term at the expense of the long."    Government officials had no immediate comment on thereport, which advised a reduction in the overall size of thepublic investment program and greater emphasis on thepreservation of Peru's export potential.    The report said that although the government had succeededin cutting inflation from 250 pct a year in the first half of1985 to under 70 pct, its stabilisation and reactivationprogram was encountering rising difficulties.    "An early renewal of inflationary pressures, linked tomonetary expansion, exchange rate devaluation and an easing ofprice controls, appears not improbable," it added.    The world bank report said the government's policies hadreduced inflation and short-term increases in consumption atthe apparent cost of price distortions, overvaluation of thecurrency, balance of payments disequilibrium, reserve losses,and sharply diminished creditworthiness.    It said unless the government took action quickly to fix acompetitive exchange rate and control the public sectordeficit, "the higher the probability will be that the governmentwill eventually have to resort to drastic curtailment ofdomestic demand and either sharp devaluation or still furthercontrols on imports in order to stem inflation and support thebalance of payments."    It said the bank would place more emphasis on thepreservation of peru's export potential, external links andoverall economic efficiency.    The government's incentive policies towards the mining andpetroleum sectors, among its main traditional exports,suggested that it did not accord high priority to theireconomic viability, it added. Reuter
HUNGARY HOPES DEVALUATION WILL END TRADE DEFICIT National Bank of Hungary firstvice-president Janos Fekete said he hoped a planned eight pctdevaluation of the forint will spur exports and redress lastyear's severe trade deficit with the West.    Fekete told Reuters in an interview Hungary must achieve atleast equilibrium on its hard currency trade.    "It is useful to have a devaluation," he said. "There is now areal push to our exports and a bit of a curb to our imports."    The official news agency MTI said today Hungary woulddevalue by eight pct and it expected the new rates to beannounced later today. Fekete said the rates would come intoeffect tomorrow.    He said one reason for the devaluation was that Hungary hada higher rate of inflation over the past two years than itsmain partners (around eight pct in 1985 and between five and5.5 pct in 1986).    This was partly an after-effect of action Hungary took toprevent inflation from soaring during the oil price shocks ofthe 1970s, he added.    Hungary devalued by a similar amount last September and bybetween three and four pct early last year.    But the country's hard currency trade balance neverthelessfell into a deficit of 539.4 mln dlrs from a surplus of 295.3mln in 1986 and 1.2 billion in 1985.    Fekete said Hungary was hoping for a hard currency tradesurplus of between 200 and 300 mln dlrs this year, but that amore likely outcome would be closer to equilibrium on totalhard currency trade of around 10 billion dlrs.    One Western commercial attache here said: "Devaluation ofitself will not change anything. It will only be useful if theyalso make efforts to restructure industry and improve thequality of their export goods."    Fekete said he hoped to raise credits on good terms thisyear to invest in restructuring industry.    It would be his role to persuade international banks tocooperate in this process. He noted Hungary had been given anAA rating enabling it to raise money on the Japanese Samuraibond market.    Hungary's net hard currency debt soared to 7.79 billiondlrs last year from 5.01 billion in 1985, partly because of acurrent account deficit of 1.42 billion dlrs and partly becausethe fall in the dollar increased the dollar value of debtdenominated in marks or yen.    He said he feared net debt would also rise slightly thisyear, but he was in favour of borrowing for the purpose ofmodernisation.    "I am for credits to invest for that purpose," he said. "I amagainst credits for consumption." He forecast gross domesticproduct growth of two pct this year, from one pct in 1986.   Fekete said Hungary would continue to restructure its debtprofile by prepaying high interest shorter and medium termloans with cheaper long term money for which it was lookingmore and more to the fixed interest rate bond market, where heconsidered rates to be low.    Hard currency foreign exchange reserves would stay ataround 3.5 billion dlrs, he said. On the budget deficit, whichtripled to a provisional 47 billion forints last year afterquadrupling in 1985, Fekete said the finance ministry wasworking out measures to reduce an approved target deficit forthis year of 43.8 billion forints to between 30 and 35 billionforints. REUTER
VOLCKER SAYS FED REMAINS CONCERNED ABOUT THE POSSIBILITY OF RENEWED I Defense Secretary Caspar Weinbergerwill join Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige in fightingFujitsu Ltd's <ITSU.T> plan to buy 80 pct of <FairchildSemiconductor Corp>, Pentagon officials said.    "He (Weinberger) opposes it. It is not in the best interestsof the country to have more of the micro-electronics businessleaving the United States," one of the Pentagon officials, whoasked not to be identified, told Reuters.    Commerce Department officials told Reuters yesterday thatBaldrige opposed the planned sale and that the White HouseEconomic Policy Council will take up the matter within weeks.    Commerce and defense officials said Baldrige and Weinbergerfeared the U.S. military is already leaning too heavily onforeign electronic support.    But the Defense Department also said today that Weinbergerand Baldrige differed on the proposed sale of U.S. computerequipment to Iran.    The Commerce Department advised the Pentagon recently thatdefense objections to two proposed sales -- to an Iranian powercompany and the Islamic Republic of Iran News Agency -- werenot valid and the sales of small and medium computers would gothrough unless more evidence was presented. Reuter
BOLIVIA TO OFFER TO BUY BACK BANK DEBT Bolivia is to make a formal offer duringthe next few months to buy back its 900 mln dlrs debt fromcommercial banks at a discount of up to 90 pct, central bankpresident Jier Nogales said.     Nogales told Reuters in an interview the steeringcommittee of Bolivia's creditor banks had agreed to considerthe offer at a meeting in New York last month.     He said the offer would be based on the value of Bolivianpaper on the international secondary debt market, where it nowtrades at between 10 and 15 pct of its face value.    Nogales said Bolivia will make a single offer to buy backits commercial debt and banks who accepted would be paid thediscounted rate in full.    Banks which declined the offer would be repaid over 20 to30 years at interest rates below those fixed in theinternational markets, he added.    Bolivia has frozen payments on medium and long term loansto commercial banks since March, 1984, and Nogales said therewould be no money available to restart traditional debtservicing to them for some time.     Several Latin American countries have initiated schemes tocancel foreign debt by equity swaps or third party buy-backs,but Bolivia would be the first country in the region to make aformal offer to buy back all its commercial bank debt atdiscounted rates.    Nogales said practical and strategic considerations woulddetermine the exact timing of the offer but it would be made inthe next few months.     He said Bolivia would not bargain with creditor banks overthe price to paid for the debt paper they hold, and would makea single non-negotiable offer.    He said Bolivia could not even pay interest to friendlycreditor countries, let alone commercial banks. The onlytraditional way forward was to capitalise interest, which wouldmean greater bank exposure in Bolivia and greater lossprovisions, he added.    "We are confident that the banks are going to bereasonable," Nogales said. "Now they can resolve their problemsfor once and for all."    "The most conservative ones who want a little more willwait a year, but I don't know if the window of opportunity willbe open all the time," he added.    Discussing the status of other parts of Bolivia's fourbillion dlr foreign debt, 2.5 billion of which is owed togovernments and the rest to international agencies, Nogalessaid negotiators had achieved considerable success in recentdiscussions with the Paris Club.     He said Paris Club creditors had agreed to rescheduleBolivian debt over 10 years with five to six years grace, whileaccepting that interest would not be paid until 1989. Interestrates were being discussed on a bilateral basis under ParisClub rules, he added.     He said some Paris Club members had agreed to disregardpenalty interest payments and negotiations were continuing withArgentina and Brazil, who hold 700 mln dlrs of Bolivian debt.    He said Bolivia was continuing to service loans frominternational agencies, and it expected to receive up to 400mln dlrs in disbursements this year.    The capital flow for loans and their servicing had changedfrom a negative balance of 250 mln dlrs in 1985 to a net inflowof 130 mln dlrs last year, he added.    Nogales said that Bolivia's net international reserves nowstood at around 250 mln dlrs, compared to one mln dlrs indisposable funds when the government of Victor Paz Estenssorotook office in August, 1985.    Nogales said inflation, which soared to over 20,000 pct ayear in the government's first month in office, was now down to10 pct on an annualised basis from the last six months, and theplan was that it should continue at this level.    He said the government was also expecting at least threepct growth in gdp this year after several years of negativerates. Reuter
INFLATION STILL A CONCERN, VOLCKER SAYS Federal Reserve Board Chairman PaulVolcker said both the Fed and the financial markets remainconcerned about the possibility of renewed inflation.    "A possibility of renewed inflation remains of concern,both in the markets and within the Federal Reserve," he said inremarks prepared for delivery to a group of business leadershere.    He said one potential channel for renewed inflationarypressures would be an excessive fall of the dollar in theexchange markets, which would push import prices up sharply.    He said participants in financial markets and businessremain skeptical of prospects for lasting price stability.    "Should the skepticism about our ability to resistinflation be reinforced by bad policy, the consequences forinterest rates, for exchange rates, and for the economygenerally would clearly be undesirable...recognition of thatdanger neccesarily must weigh heavily in the formation ofmonetary policy," the Fed chairman said.    Volcker said attempts to drive the dollar much lower wouldundermine the hard won gains against inflation and would riskdissipating the flow of foreign capital. Reuter
VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT DEFENDS REFINANCING ACCORD president jaime lusinchi defended the20.3 billion dlr debt rescheduling accord his governmentrecently signed, saying it will open new credit flows and bringneeded foreign investment to venezuela.    In his annual state of the nation speech, lusinchi alsosaid venezuela supports other latin american debtors, despitehaving reached a rescheduling accord on its own.    In the 90-minute speech to the congress, lusinchi summed upthe achievements of his administration, which took office infebruary 1984. He pointed to the 3.3 pct growth in non-oil gdpin 1986 and to a "moderate" 12 pct inflation rate.    Lusinchi said the 20.3 billion dlr debt rescheduling signedfeb. 27 put an end to a process which had been 'the calvary ofour nation over the post four years.'    In the refinancing accord, he said, venezuela managed toachieve 'the most inmportant thing, which is the reopening offinancial flows from abroad, essential for the financing ofdevelopment and the (financing) of trade and investment.'    Once all the details of the agreement are finalized, hesaid, venezuela will seek new financing for the importedcomponents of new development projects.    "our intention is not to continue being net exporters ofcapital, but to protect our balance of payments with a flow ofcapital towards venezuela," he said.    Under the agreement signed february 27, venezuela extendedpayments on the debt from 12 to 14 years, while the interestrate was lowered from 1 y 1/8 to 7/8 of a pct over libor.    At the same time, payments over the next three years werelowered from 3.450 to 1.350 billion dlrs.    Lusinchi defended the rescheduling accord against criticswho said it merely deferred the weight of payments to futuregovernments. Reuter
PORTUGUESE FEBRUARY CONSUMER PRICES RISE ONE PCT Portugal's consumer prices rose one pctlast month after a 1.2 pct increase in January and a 1.3 pctrise in February 1986, the National Statistics Institute said.    The consumer price index (base 1976) rose to 761.3 from753.7 in January and compared with 695.4 in February 1986.    This gave a year-on-year February inflation rate of 9.5 pctagainst 9.8 pct in January and 12.6 pct in February 1986.    Measured as an annual average rate, inflation in Februarywas 11.1 pct compared with 11.4 pct in January.  The governmentforecasts annual average inflation of about eight pct thisyear. REUTER
ECUADOR ADOPTS AUSTERITY PROGRAM Ecuador announced an austerity programand a price freeze on key consumer goods as a result of lastweek's earthquake which killed at least 300 people.    Presidency Minister Patricio Quevedo said in a televisedaddress that the budget would be cut by five to 10 pct,government hiring would be frozen and salaries of topofficials, including the president and cabinet, would bereduced.    He also said a price freeze would be imposed on 20 basicconsumer items, mainly food staples, while the price of petrolwould rise by between 69 and 80 pct and bus fares would rise by20 pct. Petrol supplies would also be limited.    Information Ministry officials said the price freeze wasaimed at protecting poor Ecuadoreans from a wave ofspecualtion. Violators would be severely punished, according tothe price freeze order, signed by five cabinet ministers.    The items for which prices were frozen included rice,sugar, cooking oil, potatoes, salt, wheat flour, cigarettes,soft drinks, school supplies and several kinds of vegetables.    Ecuador's consumer price inflation was 23 pct in 1986.    The price of 92-octane petrol rises to 110 sucres a U.S.Gallon from 65 sucres. Eighty-octane petrol increases to 90sucres from 50. REUTER
LANGE PREDICTS N.Z. INFLATION TO FALL TO 8-10 PCT New Zealand's inflation rate couldfall to eight pct in the coming year, Prime Minister DavidLange said.    He said forecasts to be released soon by research groupswould predict a rate of around eight or nine pct in the 12months to the end of March 1988, against 18.2 pct in calendar1986.    "I predict it will be something between eight and 10 percent," he told a news conference.    Lange would not name the forecasting groups. REUTER
ISRAELI INFLATION RATE IS 1.0 PCT IN FEBRUARY Israel's inflation rate for Februarywas one pct, compared to 2.1 pct in January and 1.6 pct inFebruary 1986, a spokesman for the Central Bureau of Statisticssaid.    Inflation for the 12 months ending in February was 23 pct,the spokesman said.    February price rises were mostly in housing, health,education, entertainment and transport.    Wage and price controls have been in force since August1985. Officials said the controls have helped soften the effectof a recent 10 pct devaluation of the shekel. REUTER
DUTCH COST OF LIVING FALLS 1.2 PCT IN FEBRUARY The Dutch cost of living index (base1980) fell 1.2 pct to 121.5 in the year to mid-February after a1.3 pct fall in the year to mid-January 1987, the EconomicsMinistry said.    The February index was 0.2 pct up on January.    Clothing, shoe and vegetable prices rose in February whileprices of coffee, heating oil and most car fuels fell, theMinistry added. REUTER
FINNISH INFLATION FALLS TO 3.5 PCT IN FEBRUARY Year-on year Finnish consumer pricesfell to 3.5 pct in February 1986 from 3.7 pct in January and4.6 pct in February 1985, the Central Statistical Office said.    Consumer prices rose 0.3 pct in February after rises of onepct in January and 0.5 pct in February 1985.    The consumer price index, base 1981, was 142.7 in February,142.2 in January and 137.8 in February 1986. REUTER
YUGOSLAV FEBRUARY INFLATION RISES 7.2 PCT Yugoslav retail prices in Februaryrose 7.2 pct from January to stand 91.6 pct higher than inFebruary 1986, the Federal Statistics Office said.    In January retail prices rose 6.6 pct from December tostand 90.4 pct higher than in January 1986.    The cost of living, an index that includes services andutilities as well as retail prices, was up 7.3 pct in Februaryfrom January and stood 93.6 pct higher than in February 1986.    In January the cost of living increased by 6.4 pct fromDecember and stood 91.8 pct higher than in January 1986. REUTER
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT -FRANCE AWAITS ECONOMIC LIFT A year after squeezing to power with anarrow bare coalition majority, Gaullist Prime minister JacquesChirac has swept away a cobweb of controls and regulationschoking the French economy.    But France is still waiting for a promised industrialrecovery the government says will follow from its free marketpolicies. Company profits and the stock market are rising. Butso is unemployment. Growth is stagnant at about two pct a yearand the outlook for inflation, held to a 20-year low of 2.1 pctin 1986, is uncertain.    Forced last month to cut the government's 1987 growthtarget and raise its inflation estimate, Finance MinisterEdouard Balladur ruled out action to stimulate the economy. Butsome government supporters say they fear time for an economicmiracle may be running out.    The political clock is ticking towards Presidentialelections due by April next year.    France's economic performance, led by a mixed cast ofright-wing ministers and a socialist President, has won mixedreviews from non-partisan analysts.    For Michel Develle, Director of Economic Studies atnewly-privatised Banque Paribas, the government's outstandingachievement has been to launch "a veritable intellectualrevolution" breaking the staid habits formed by centuries ofstate control.    "The figures may look mediocre -- neither good nor bad --but set in their context of structural reforms, they areexcellent," Develle said.    But some analysts say they fear that Balladur, chiefarchitect of the government's free market policies, may bepursuing a mirage.    "The belief that economic liberalism will produce anexplosion of economic forces is ideological" said Indosuez chiefeconomist Jean Cheval. "Personally I think it's an illusion.Dirigisme (direction) is a basic fact of the French system,from school onwards. Ultra-liberalism is impossible."    Illusion or not, the government has pushed its vision hard.Over the past year foreign exchange and consumer price controlshave been largely abolished, labour regulations have beenpruned to ease the sacking of redundant workers and a hugelypopular programme has been launched to sell state-owned banksand industries to private investors.    Since December, nearly five mln French investors havebought shares in Cie Financiere de Paribas <PARI.PA> and glassmaker Cie de Saint-Gobain SA <SGEP.PA>, the first two statecompanies brought to the stock market under the 300 billionfranc five-year privatisation plan.    Encouraged by an amnesty for past illegal exports ofcapital, and the lifting of most currency controls, money hasflooded into the Paris stockmarket from abroad, helping to liftthe market 57 pct last year and another 12.5 pct sinceDecember.    At the end of last year the government abolished pricecontrols that had existed for 42 years on services such as carrepairs and hairdressing, freeing from state intervention smallbusinesses which account for some 60 pct of the French economy.    The immediate result was a 0.9 pct rise in consumer pricesin January, partly responsible for a forced revision in theofficial 1987 inflation forecast, to 2.5 pct from two pct orless.    "But even 2.5 pct would be a fantastic result, when youconsider that prices are now free for the first time since1945," commented Develle of Paribas.    Other achievements include a major reduction in the state'sforeign debts, and a cut in the state budget deficit to 141.1billion francs last year, 2.5 billion francs below target anddown from 153.3 billion in 1985.    But despite a healthy balance of payments surplus and agradual improvement in industrial productivity, the Frenchfranc was forced by speculators in January into a humiliatingthree pct devaluation against the West German mark, its secondsince Chirac took power.    A recent report by the Organisation for EconomicCooperation and Development pilloried French industry forfailing to produce the goods that its potential customerswanted.    Outside the mainly state-controlled high technologysectors, French industrial goods were "increasingly ill-adaptedto demand" and over-priced, the report said.    French economists, including Cheval at Indosuez, agreedwith the report. "One of the assumptions of the government isthat if you give them freedom, the employers will invest andmodernise....But nine out of ten will say yes, they likefreedom, and then wait to be told which way to go," he said.    And despite rising industrial investment and theintroduction of special incentives to boost youth employment,the end-1986 number of jobless was reported at a record 2.7million, some 300,000 more than a year earlier.    The problem for the government is that there may be littlemore it can do to prod the economy into faster growth.    French producers failed more than most to take advantage oflast year's oil price falls and growth hopes now rest on theshaky prospects of expansion in other industrial countries likeWest Germany and Japan, they say. REUTER...
 French February inflation between 0.1 and 0.2 pct vs 0.9 pct in january -  U.S. lawmakers are gearing up for ashowdown between protectionists and free traders as a majortrade bill winds its way through committees to a vote by thefull House of Representatives in late April.    In a move to toughen U.S. enforcement of trade laws, a keyHouse subcommittee last week approved a toned down version oflegislation to require President Reagan to retaliate againstforeign countries that follow unfair trade practices.    This bill will be the cornerstone of congressional effortsto restore competitiveness of American industries and turnaround last year's record 169 billion dlrs trade deficit.    Several lawmakers have argued the new trade bill made toomany concessions to Reagan and said they intend to backamendments to "get tough" with countries that violate tradeagreements or keep out U.S. products.     On the other hand, congressmen known for their allegianceto free trade, said the bill ties Reagan's hands too much intrade disputes and they will seek to restore his negotiatingpowers.    Republican Bill Frenzel of Michigan said the subcommittee'sbill was not one "that a free trader like me could endorse inall respects," but he emphasized there was a consensus amongtrade lawmakers to work toward a bill Reagan and Republicanswould ultimately endorse.    Frenzel said the goal of trade legislation was, "to make ourtrade policy stronger without violating our international tradeagreements. You'll find a lot of people who think we have notdone the former enough. You'll find poeple who think we haven'tavoided violating agreements."    In a key concession made at the urging of the powerfulchairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, the tradesubcommittee backed off a requirement that would have forcedReagan to automatically impose quotas or tariffs on importsfrom countries that engage in unfair trade practices.    It also agreed he may waive any retaliation if it wouldhurt the U.S. economy.    Ways and Means chairman Dan Rostenkowski, an IllinoisDemocrat, insisted the more moderate approach was necessary ifthe House wanted to pass a bill Reagan would sign into law.    Reagan last year had blocked Senate consideration of atough House trade bill he branded as protectionist and thisyear only reluctantly agreed to support a trade bill when hesaw Democratic leaders were determined to pass a bill.    As an indication of his success, White House spokesmanMarlin Fitzwater told reporters Friday the administration stilldid not like some provisions. But he added, "Generally we feelvery good about the bipartisan consideration of the tradelegislation. I think we are progressing very well."    The first battle will take place next week when the fullHouse Ways and Means Committee considers an amendment by Rep.Richard Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat, to force countries suchas Japan, South Korea and Taiwan to cut their trade surpluseswith the United States.    The subcommittee limited the Gephardt plan to provide onlythat the existence of a large trade surplus with the UnitedStates will trigger an investigation of unfair trade practices,but would not automatically set off retaliation.    Rep. Phil Crane, an Illinois Republican and staunch freetrader, said he will try to further weaken the Gephardt plan.    Organized labor has pressed lawmakers for more relief fromimports where jobs have been lost to foreign competition.AFL-CIO president Lane Kirkland this year angered theadministration in a statement that any trade bill Reagan wouldsign would not be worth passage in Congress.    But Rostenkowski set the tone of the trade debate in astatement, "I'm not trying to write legislation to please LaneKirkland. I'm trying to write legislation that will be signedby the president."    In writing the bill, the subcommittee rejected calls fortrade relief for specific industries such as textiles.    Rep. Ed Jenkins, a Democrat from Georgia, agreed to holdoff his fight. He intends to push separately a bill to protectthe domestic textile and shoe industry, an aide said. Reaganvetoed a similar measure last year.    House Speaker Jim Wright, a Texas Democrat, is one of themost influential proponents of aid for specific industriesbeset by low priced foreign competition.    Wright Thursday renewed his call for import relief for thedomestic oil industry and announced his support for a Senateplan to trigger a temporary oil import tariff when importsreach half of domestic consumption.    For the most part, the trade bill's provisions toughen U.S.enforcement of trade laws. The bill forces the administrationto act rapidly on complaints of unfair trade practices such asdumping products in the United States at prices below the costof production.    It also forces the administration to act rapidly when anindustry complains that a surge in imports threatens itsexistence. Congressmen said the change would have required theU.S. International Trade Commission to impose limits on carimports in 1981. Reuter
 French February year on year inflation 3.4 pct vs three pct January -  Texas Air Corp said under a settlementof class action litigation with <Mutual Shares Corp>, formerminority shareholders of Continental Airlines Inc will receivean additional 3.75 dlrs per share.    In February, Texas Air acquired the minority interest inContinental that it did not already own for 16.50 dlrs pershare. Mutual had challenged the adequacy of the price.    Texas Air said any former Continental holder who has soughtappraisal rights under Delaware law may continue to seek theappraisal remedy in Delaware Chancery Court or accept thesettlement and drop the appraisal process.    Texas Air said the settlement has other terms relating toemployee shareholdrs of Continental, who will receive optionsfrom Texas Air.  It did not give details.    The company said the settlement is subject to approval bythe Delaware Chancery Court, which is expected to take about 60days. Reuter
FRENCH INFLATION SLOWS IN FEBRUARY French inflation slowed in February tobetween 0.1 and 0.2 pct against 0.9 pct in January, theNational Statistics Institute (INSEE) said.    The retail price index showed a year-on-year rise of 3.4pct against three pct in January. An INSEE official said thefinal figure for February would be released later this month.    After January's rise the government was forced to reviseits inflation target for 1987 to 2.5 pct year on year from aninitial target of two pct, after 2.1 pct in 1986.    Finance Minister Edouard Balladur said half the Januaryrise was due to higher oil prices and forecast a Februaryslowing. REUTER
 Balladur maintains 1987 2.5 pct inflation target after February 3.4 pct year A 250 dlr spot charge will be added tothe New York cocoa futures, July delivery, contract startingWednesday, March 18, the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange said.    The March delivery ceases trading March 17, making May andJuly the two nearby unlimited positions. Previously, March andMay were unlimited.    The margin requirement for a May or July position will be1,000 dlrs--750 dlrs original margin plus 250 dlrs spot fee. Reuter
BALLADUR MAINTAINS 1987 FRENCH INFLATION TARGET Finance Minister Edouard Balladur said hewas maintaining his 2.5 pct inflation target for 1987 after theannouncement earlier today of a 3.4 pct year-on-year rise inretail prices for February.    He told a radio interviewer he saw no reason to revise histarget for 1987 after the February monthly result of between0.1 to O.2 pct, following a 0.9 pct rise in January (three pctyear on year) that forced the government to revise an earliertarget of two pct to a current 2.5 pct.    He said he was happy with "a good result" for February butstressed a need for continued "vigilance" against inflation.    A Finance Ministry statement said the year-on-yeardifferential between French and lower West German inflationrates, calculated on the last three months, had narrowed inFebruary to two to 2.3 pct compared to 2.7 pct in January.    If calculated on the last 12 months, the differential cameto 3.9 pct, the statement said, adding "The tendency istherefore one of a lessening of the inflation gap with our maintrading partner." REUTER
OECD JANUARY ANNUAL INFLATION STEADY AT 2.1 PCT Inflation in the 24 industrialisednations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation andDevelopment was 2.1 pct in the year to January, unchanged fromDecember, the OECD said.    But monthly inflation throughout the OECD was an average0.4 pct in January, a rise compared to the 0.2 pct in the lastquarter.    Retail energy prices rose strongly in January, reflectingthe firming of world oil prices. For OECD states the increasewas 0.7 pct but the January level of retail energy prices wasstill 11.6 pct lower than a year earlier, the OECD said.    The increase in consumer prices excluding food and energy,at 0.4 pct in January for the whole OECD area, was unchanged onthe four previous months, but over the year to January OECDconsumer prices rose by 3.5 pct, against 3.3 pct in December.    Unadjusted annual inflation for the seven leadingindustrialised nations in January was running at 4.4 pct inItaly, 3.9 pct in Britain and Canada, three pct in France, 1.4pct in the U.S., Minus 0.8 pct in West Germany and minus 1.5pct in Japan, the OECD said. REUTER
SPAIN'S INFLATION RISES 0.4 PCT IN FEBRUARY Spain's consumer price index rose 0.4pct in February after increases of 0.7 pct the previous monthand 0.4 pct in February last year, National StatisticsInstitute figures show.    Year-on-year inflation was six pct compared with thegovernment five pct target for 1987. It rose 8.3 pct last year. REUTER
SWEDEN REVISES DOWN JANUARY'S INFLATION FIGURE Sweden's rate of inflation duringJanuary has been revised downwards after a fault was made incalculating the figures, the Central Bureau of Statistics said.    The January rise in consumer prices was 1.0 pct instead ofthe previously announced 1.3 pct, the bureau said, withoutexplaining how the error arose.    Consumer prices in February rose 0.3 pct compared with 0.1pct in February last year, the bureau said. The total inflationrate so far this year is therefore 1.3 pct, allowing forJanuary's revised figures, it added.    Year-on-year inflation rose to 3.4 pct in February, againsta revised 3.2 pct in January and a year-on-year rate of 5.3 pctin February 1986, the bureau said.    The slowdown in price rises was mainly due to a governmentimposed price freeze which came into force on February 4, thebureau added. REUTER
BRAZILIAN MONTHLY INFLATION DIPS SLIGHTLY Brazilian consumer prices rose13.9 pct in February, compared with January's record rate of16.8 pct, the Brazilian Geography and Statistics Institute(IBGE) said in a statement.    The February rise brought the increase in consumer pricessince the introduction of the anti-inflation Cruzado Plan ayear ago to 62.5 pct. REUTER
U.K. REVISES RETAIL PRICE INDEX FROM FEBRUARY The U.K. Government tomorrow willrelease the first of its Retail Price Index (RPI) figurescalculated on a revised group of components and rebased onJanuary 1987, as previously announced, the EmploymentDepartment said.    The index, Britain's measure of inflation, is for February.Earlier data will not be revised as there are no equivalentfigures including the new components, a spokesman said.    Previously, the RPI base was January, 1974.    Market forecasts centre on a 0.4-0.5 pct monthly rise inFebruary and a year on year rate about 4.0 pct. The governmentforecasts annual inflation will be 4.0 pct at the end of 1987. REUTER
FED'S JOHNSON SEES INFLATION CONTROLLED Federal Reserve Board Vice ChairmanManuel Johnson said inflationary pressures are under controland noted "wage and price pressures are very moderate."    Johnson told a women's group that the U.S. was not seeingthe kind of cost pressures of the past.    He said the trade imbalance was a serious trouble spot andstrong protectionist pressures, if translated into policies,could ultimately lead to higher inflation and a high interestrate policy by the Fed. Reuter
U.K. FEB RETAIL PRICES UP 0.4 PCT, BASE REVISED, YEAR-ON-YEAR RISE 3.9 PCT -  A solution to Brazil's debt problemsis unthinkable without the involvement of the InternationalMonetary Fund, Juergen Sarrazin, management board member ofDresdner Bank AG responsible for Latin America said.    Sarrazin told the business daily Handelsblatt that Brazil'sinterest payments moratorium had cost it the goodwill of manybanks.    "Now there will certainly be no solutions without the IMF,"he said. "Alternatives which could be imagined before, such asbringing the IMF in with us in a loose form, are over," he said.    Sarrazin, who through Dresdner represents German banks inseveral rescheduling coordinating committees, noted that Brazilwas still prepared to negotiate.    But he said work in the coordinating committees had alreadyrun into difficulties before Brazil's interest moratorium.    Justified calls by debtors for more flexibility from thebanks were blocked because U.S. Regulations made solutions suchas capitalising of interest virtually impossible, he said.    Although many European banks were opposed to the use ofinterest capitalisation, "this was an alternative which has tobe brought in," Sarrazin said. REUTER
U.K. RETAIL PRICES RISE 0.4 PCT IN FEBRUARY The Retail Price Index (RPI), Britain'smeasure of inflation, rose 0.4 pct in February on a revisedbasis, to give a year-on-year rise of 3.9 pct, the EmploymentDepartment said.    In January, the index rose 0.4 pct for a 3.9 pctyear-on-year rise on both the previous base and the new index.    The February RPI was set at 100.4, base January 1987. InFebruary 1986, the RPI rose 0.4 pct, giving a 5.1 pctyear-on-year increase on the old basis.    The inflation data compares with market forecasts for arise of 0.4 - 0.5 pct in February and a yearly rise of aboutfour pct, economists said.    The Employment Department said the rise in the indexbetween January and February was mainly the result of higherprices for petrol, fresh vegetables, cars and car maintenance. REUTER
CANADA CONSUMER PRICE INDEX ROSE 0.4 PCT IN FEBRUARY, STATISTICS CAN The Canadian consumer price index rose0.4 pct in February, to 135.8, base 1981, compared with a 0.2pct rise in January and a 0.4 pct rise in February last year,Statistics Canada said.    The February year-one year rise was 4.0 pct compared with a3.9 pct rise in January.R Reuter
MINISTER PREDICTS ONE PCT INFLATION FOR SINGAPORE Singapore will have an inflation rateof one pct in 1987, up from a negative 1.4 pct in 1986, Tradeand Industry Minister Lee Hsien Loong told Parliament.    He said the 1986 drop in the inflation rate, the first fallin a decade, was due largely to lower world prices for oil andoil-related items.    But Lee said the negative inflation rate is unlikely to berepeated this year because of projected higher prices forprimary commodities and oil. REUTER
BANGLADESH FORECASTS GDP GROWTH OF 4.4 PCT Gross domestic product is expected togrow by 4.4 pct in the year ending June 30, Finance MinisterMohammad Syeduzzaman told reporters.    Inflation fell to an estimated 12 pct this fiscal year from17 pct in 1981/82, he said last night.    The World Bank and other independent sources have saidinflation would be around 15 pct in 1986/87.    Syeduzzaman said remittances from expatriates would rise to600 mln dlrs this year from 425 mln in 1981/82.    Foreign exchange reserves at end-June are projected at 680mln dlrs compared with 105 mln in 1981/82, he said.    Syeduzzaman said the export target has been set at 900 mlndlrs this year against 626 mln in 1981/82. Commitments forforeign loans and grants total more than five billion dlrs in1986/87, against 3.54 billion five years previously, he said.    The government's liberal industrial policy has attractedinvestment commitments totalling 250 mln dlrs, he said    Foodgrain output is estimated at 16.4 mln tonnes this year,up from 16.12 mln in 1985/86 and 14.4 mln in 1981/82.    Government officials have said Bangladesh must importnearly two mln tonnes of grain annually up to 1990, when thegovernment expects to attain self-sufficiency in food. REUTER
S. AFRICAN CONSUMER PRICE INFLATION RISES SLIGHTLY South African year-on-year consumerprice inflation rose slightly to 16.3 pct in February afterfalling sharply to 16.1 pct in January from 18.1 pct inDecember, Central Statistics Office figures show.    The monthly rise in the all items index (base 1980) was1.09 pct to 251.0 in February after a 1.4 pct increase to 248.3in January.    A year ago the index stood at 215.8 and year on yearconsumer price inflation at 18.05 pct. REUTER
PAKISTAN CONSUMER PRICE INDEX FALLS IN JANUARY Pakistan's consumer price index (base1975/76) fell to 231.93 in January 1987 from 233.26 in December1986, and compared with  223.66 a year ago, the federal Bureauof Statistics said.    The wholesale price index (same base) rose to 229.83 inJanuary from 229.06 in December and compared with  217.97 inJanuary 1986. REUTER
BELGIAN MARCH CONSUMER PRICES RISE Belgian consumer prices rose 0.11 pctin March from February to stand 1.27 pct above the level inMarch 1986, the Economic Affairs Ministry said in a statement.    It said the consumer price index, base 1981, rose to 132.83points from 132.69 in February and 131.17 in March 1985.    Year-on-year inflation stood at 1.00 pct in February and at1.53 pct in March 1986. REUTER
U.S. ECONOMY SHOWS PROMISING SIGNS OF GROWTH The U.S. economy is showing somepromising signs of accelerated expansion despite thesluggishness of the fourth quarter last year, privateeconomists say.    Some of the slowness experienced in the October-Decemberperiod had been expected to spill over into the first quarterthis year, as the tax law changes that went into effect inJanuary slowed business and consumer spending.    But some of the latest economic data show signs ofsurprising strength in the U.S. economy, although someeconomists remain cautious about the outlook.    The Commerce Department reported today that new orders fordurable goods in February jumped by 5.7 billion dlrs, a six pctrise, to 101.2 billion dlrs. Even excluding volatile defensegoods, durable goods orders rose a healthy 3.8 pct, the agencysaid.    The February numbers surpassed the expectations of manyfinancial analysts, whose predictions ranged from flat toincreases of up to five pct.    The January/February employment statistics suggest theGross National Product will show a healthy rate of growth forthe first three months of this year, said Lyle Gramley, aneconomist with the Mortgage Bankers Association.    The U.S. jobless rate in February and January was 6.7 pct,the lowest rate since March 1980. The number of new non-farmjobs rose by 337,000 in February after a 319,000 gain inJanuary and a 225,000 December increase, the government said.    The employment data suggests a GNP annual growth rate ofabout three to 3.25 pct in the first quarter, said Gramley.    Much of that will be attributed to businesses rebuildingtheir inventories and is not likely to be sustained in thesecond quarter, Gramley said. He expects a slowdown in thesecond quarter with smaller increases in personal consumptionand government spending. He also sees residential constructiondeclining mostly for multi-family housing units.    Fidelity Bank senior economist Mickey Levy said some of thefourth quarter slowness will continue.    Levy predicts GNP will grow at a scant 1.5 pct rate in thefirst quarter of 1987, accelerate during the second quarter andshow a brisk 4.5 pct annual rate in the third quarter.    The key to both forecasts is a marked improvement in theU.S. trade balance which is expected because of the decline inthe dollar's value over the last year and half.    "The improvement will be gradual and long lasting," Levypredicted. Most of it will be through import reduction, but atleast one-third will be due to a rise in product exports as theprices of U.S. goods become more attractive overseas.    The Reagan administration has predicted the trade deficit,which soared to record levels last year, will improve this yearand the U.S. economy will grow by a respectable 3.2 pct for theyear compared with a 2.5 pct rate last year.    As part of the effort to reduce the trade deficit, the U.S.has been pressing West Germany and Japan to stimulate theirdomestic demand for goods from the U.S. and others.    U.S. officials believe that would help take some of thepressure off the United States whose five years of economicgrowth has been the mainstay of developing countries.    The U.S. economy provided them with a giant market fortheir goods giving them a way to earn income badly needed toservice their foreign debt.    The government last week said the U.S. economy grew at amodest 1.1 pct annual rate during the fourth quarter.    There were indications of improvement in the huge imbalancebetween the volume of goods imported to the United States andthose shipped abroad. The report showed a rising volume ofexports corresponding to a decline in imports despite the factthat in current dollar terms, the U.S. trade deficit worsenedduring the closing three months of 1986.    While fourth quarter economic growth was weak, corporateprofits jumped a healthy 6.1 pct during the period, thegovernment said. It also reported that inflation, as measuredby the GNP price deflator, remained in check, growing amoderate 0.7 pct in the period, the lowest rise in 19 years.    The government also reported that consumer spending, a keyelement of the five year economic recovery, jumped 1.7 pct inFebruary, after falling two pct in January.    The Federal Reserve Board also reported that themanufacturing sector, which had been one of the weaker elementsof the U.S. economy, was showing signs of recovery.    In its latest report on current economic conditions, theFed said that economic activity in the various regions of thecountry ranged from uneven or steady to improving.Manufacturing activity showed signs of improvement in mostregions except Dallas where orders remained sluggish.    Chase Econometrics Chairman Lawrence Chimerine said thepick up in the U.S. manufacturing sector is largely due to thedrop in the dollar's value. He said he does not foresee a majorpick up in economic activity, but does not believe the economywill slip into recession either.    He said higher prices on imported products and wage cutsthat have helped the manufacturing sector will squeezeconsumers purchasing power.    "That pattern is starting and will continue for a number ofyears," Chimerine said. He sees economic growth hovering arounda modest two pct level for the next few years. Reuter
DANISH FEBRUARY CONSUMER PRICES FALL 0.1 PCT Consumer prices fell 0.1 pct inFebruary, after a rise of 0.2 pct in January and no change inFebruary 1986, the National Statistics Office said.    The index, base 1980, fell to 154.5 in February from 154.6in January, against 147.4 in February 1986, giving ayear-on-year increase of 4.8 pct. REUTER
MARCH PRICES FELL IN GERMAN STATE ON YEAR-AGO The cost of living in NorthRhine-Westphalia, Germany's most populous state, fell 0.1 pctin the month to mid-March to stand 0.5 pct lower than at thesame time a year earlier, the regional statistics office said.    Prices had risen 0.3 pct in the month to mid-February buthad fallen 0.7 pct year-on-year.    The regional figures are considered a good guide tonational inflation trends. The Federal Statistics Office is dueto publish provisional national figures for March by the end ofthis month. REUTER
EC INFLATION STARTS TO RISE AGAIN IN FEBRUARY Inflation in the European Community,which fell to its lowest since the 1960s between November andJanuary, started to take off again last month, figures from theEC statistics office Eurostat showed.    Consumer prices were on average three pct higher than inFebruary 1986, the office said. This compared with a year onyear rise of 2.7 pct in January, the lowest for 25 years, andwas the highest figure since October.    Prices rose in February by 0.3 pct from January, afterrises of 0.4 pct in January and of 0.2 pct in each of the lastthree months of 1986. REUTER
GERMAN COST OF LIVING FALLS IN MARCH ON YEAR-AGO The cost of living in West Germanywas provisionally unchanged in March compared with February butfell 0.2 pct against March 1986, the Federal Statistics Officesaid.    In February the cost of living rose 0.1 pct from Januarybut fell 0.5 pct compared with February 1986.    The office said final figures for March will be released inabout 10 days. REUTER
Japan February consumer prices unchanged (0.4 pct January drop) -  Japan's consumer price index (base 1985)was unchanged at 99.7 in February from a month earlier, thegovernment's Management and Coodination Agency said.    The index showed a 0.4 pct drop in January.    The February index was down one pct from a year earlier forthe third consecutive year-on-year drop.    In January, the index fell 1.1 pct from a year earlier, thefirst drop of over one pct since a 1.3 pct drop in September1958.    In February petrol prices increased but winter clothingprices stayed low and vegetable prices fell.    The February year on year fall was due to lower vegetable,fuel oil, petrol, electricity and gas prices, and despitehigher housing, education, footwear and clothing costs.    The unadjusted consumer price index for the Tokyo area(base 1985) in mid-March rose 0.4 pct from a month earlier to100.6, reflecting higher vegetable prices.    The index fell 0.3 pct year on year, the third consecutiveyearly drop, reflecting lower food and utility costs. REUTER
JAPAN CONSUMER PRICES UNCHANGED IN FEBRUARY Japan's consumer price index (base 1985)was unchanged at 99.7 in February from a month earlier, thegovernment's Management and Coodination Agency said.    The index showed a 0.4 pct drop in January.    The February index was down one pct from a year earlier forthe third consecutive year-on-year drop.    In January, the index fell 1.1 pct from a year earlier, thefirst drop of over one pct since a 1.3 pct drop in September1958. Reuter
U.S. FEBRUARY CONSUMER PRICES ROSE 0.4 PCT AFTER 0.7 PCT RISE IN U.S. consumer prices, as measured bythe Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers (CPI-U), rosea seasonally adjusted 0.4 pct in February after a 0.7 pctJanuary gain, the Labor Department said.    The CPI for urban wage earners and clerical workers (CPI-W)rose to 329.0 in February, the department said.    Prices for petroleum-based energy rose sharply for a secondconsecutive month during February but by less than in January,the department said.    Energy prices rose 1.9 pct last month after a 3.0 pct risein January, accounting for one-third of the overall CPI rise.    For the 12 months ended in February, the CPI rose anunadjusted 2.1 pct.    Transportation prices rose 0.5 pct in February after a 1.5pct increase in January. Smaller price rises for motor fuelsand declines in new car prices and finance charges wereresponsible for the moderation.    Gasoline prices rose 4.2 pct last month after increasing6.6 pct in January, but were still 18 pct below levels of ayear ago, the department said.    Housing prices rose 0.4 pct in February after a 0.5 pctJanuary increase, largely due to a rise in fuel oil prices.    Fuel oil prices were up 4.4 pct in February afterincreasing 9.8 pct in January, but were still 15 pct belowprice levels of February 1986.    Food prices rose 0.2 pct last month after a 0.5 pct Januaryincrease. Grocery store food prices were up 0.4 pct, the sameas in January, but meat, poultry, fish and eggs cost less for athird consecutive month, the department said.    Medical care rose 0.3 pct in February to a level 7.1 pctabove one year ago, because of higher costs for prescriptionand non-prescription drugs and medical supplies, the departmentsaid.    The index for apparel and upkeep rose 0.7 pct in Februaryafter a 0.4 pct increase in January. The department said theintroduction of higher priced spring merchandise, particularlymen's clothing, was responsible for the advance.    Prices for other goods and services rose 0.7 pct inFebruary following a 1.1 pct increase in January. Tobaccoprices, up 0.9 pct after a 2.0 pct January increase, accountedfor 30 pct of the index rise, the department said. Reuter
U.S. PRICE DATA SUGGEST MODERATE INFLATION Latest consumer price data indicateU.S. inflation will be moderate in 1987 even though it will beabove last year's pace, economists said.    "Inflation is not such a constructive factor as this timelast year, but it's not building up a large head of steam,"said Allan Leslie of Discount Corp.    U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the consumer priceindex for all urban consumers, rose a seasonally adjusted 0.4pct in February after a 0.7 pct January gain. Energy prices,which fired January's data with a three pct rise, advanced amore moderate 1.9 pct last month.    The CPI came within the range of economists' expectationsand had little direct impact on U.S. financial markets.    Among the key components of the report, transportationprices rose 0.5 pct in February after a 1.5 pct January gainreflecting smaller price appreciation for motor fuels anddeclines in new car prices and finance charges.    "There are no pronounced pressures at the retail level,"said William Sullivan of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.    Economists said the latest CPI supports existingexpectations for an inflation rate of 3.5 to four pct in 1987.    The CPI rose 1.1 pct from December 1985 to December 1986.Without last year's energy price drop, it rose 3.8 pct.    Economists said that upward pressure on import prices as aresult of the dollar's drop as well as the volatile energycomponent warrant attention in case gains in these areas becomefactored into the wider economic picture.    "As long as those price rises do not become entrenched incost of living adjustments contained in labor contracts, thusreducing international competitiveness, then the FederalReserve would probably be willing to tolerate four pctinflation," said Larry Leuzzi of S.G. Warburg and Co Inc. Reuter
U.S. ENERGY COSTS ROSE IN FEBRUARY BY 1.9 PCT Consumer energy costs rose 1.9 pctin February following a sharp rise last month, the LaborDepartment said.    The February increase in the overall energy costs,including petroleum, coal and natural gas, followed a 0.2 pctdrop in December and a 3.0 pct rise in January, it said.    Energy prices were 12.2 pct below year-ago levels.    The department's Consumer Price Index showed that the costof gasoline rose in February by 4.2 pct, after a 6.6 pct risein January.    Gasoline prices were nonetheless 18.0 pct below theirlevels as of February 1986.    Also, the category including fuel oil, coal and bottled gasrose in February by 3.8 pct, putting it 14.9 pct under theyear-ago figure.    The index also showed that natural gas and electricity wereunchanged last month, but down 3.5 pct from the February 1986figure, the department said.    The index has been updated  o reflect 1982-84 consumptionpatterns; previously, the index was based on 1972-73 patterns. Reuter
FRENCH FEBRUARY INFLATION CONFIRMED AT 0.2 PCT French retail prices rose a confirmed 0.2pct in February, in line with provisional figures released twoweeks ago showing a rise of between 0.1 and 0.2 pct, theNational Statistics Institute said.    The rise compared with a 0.9 pct rise in January.    Year-on-year retail price inflation was confirmed at 3.4pct for February compared with a three pct rise year-on-year inJanuary. REUTER
ITALIAN CONSUMER PRICES RISE 0.4 PCT IN MARCH Italy's consumer price index rose 0.4 pctin March compared with February after an identical increase inFebruary over January, the national statistics institute Istatsaid.    The year-on-year rise in March was 4.2 pct, unchanged onFebruary and compared with 7.2 pct in March 1986.    Istat said its consumer price index for the families ofworkers and employees, base year 1985 equals 100, registered109.5 in March 1987 compared with 109.1 in February this yearand 105.1 in March 1986. REUTER
TURKISH INFLATION INCREASES IN MARCH Inflation in Turkey was 3.7 pct in Marchcompared with 1.7 pct in February and 1.3 pct in March 1986,the State Statistics Institute said.    The annual rate rose to 34.7 pct in March compared with31.7 pct in February and 34.2 pct in March 1986. Thegovernment's target is to reduce inflation this year to anannual 20 pct.    The consumer price index, base 1978/79, was 1,957.3compared with 1,886.8 in February and 1,452.7 in March, 1986. REUTER
YUGOSLAV RETAIL PRICES UP 7.0 PCT IN MARCH Yugoslav retail prices in March rose7.0 pct from February, to stand 93.2 pct higher than in March1986, Federal Statistics Office (FSO) figures show.    In February, retail prices rose 7.2 pct from January tostand 91.6 pct higher than in February 1986.    The cost of living, which includes rents and costs such asutilities and transport, was up 7.8 pct in March from Februaryto stand 94.8 pct higher than in March 1986, the FSO said.    In February the cost of living increased 7.3 pct fromJanuary and stood 93.6 pct higher than in February 1986. REUTER
GERMAN MARCH COST OF LIVING DATA CONFIRMED The cost of living was unchanged inMarch compared with February but stood 0.2 pct lower than inthe same month in 1986, the Federal Statistics Office said.    This confirms provisional figures released at the end oflast month.    In February the cost of living in West Germany rose 0.1 pctfrom January to stand 0.5 pct lower than in February 1986. REUTER
SWISS 1988 INFLATION SEEN AT TWO PCT - INSTITUTE Swiss inflation is likely to rise in 1987and 1988 because of inflationary tendencies in the domesticeconomy, the Centre for Economic Research of the FederalInstitute of Technology said in its spring review.    It forecast a rise in consumer prices of two pct in 1988compared with 1.3 pct in 1987. Low import prices in 1986 helpedto keep annual inflation down to 0.8 pct.    The centre said that in general the outlook for the Swisseconomy in 1987 and 1988 remained favourable, despite the moredifficult international economic climate facing exportindustry.    The centre repeated its previous forecast that growth inSwiss domestic product would slow to 2.2 pct in 1987 from 2.5pct in 1986. It revised its forecast for 1988 GDP growth to 1.7pct from 1.6 pct in its last autumn review.    Domestic demand will continue to replace exports as themotor of economic growth. Private consumption will grow bythree pct in 1987 and two pct in 1988 against 3.75 pct in 1986.    Growth in goods exports will slow to 1.75 pct in 1987 from2.1 pct in 1986 but pick up slightly to 2.5 pct in 1988. Allthree figures are well below the Swiss average for recentyears. In 1985, for example, exports increased by 9.1 pct.    The centre said the strength of the Swiss franc, which hasfirmed sharply in recent months, would continue to put pressureon Swiss exporters.    It forecast that imports of goods would grow by a moremodest 4.5 pct in 1987 and 3.25 pct in 1988 than in 1986, whenimport prices fell substantially and imports rose by 8.2 pct.    Industrial production will grow by 1.6 pct in 1987 and 1.2pct in 1988 compared with 4.2 pct in 1986. REUTER
COLOMBIAN INFLATION STABLE AT AROUND 20 PCT Colombia's cost of living index rose 2.71pct in March, after a 2.03 pct increase in February and a 2.21pct rise in March 1986, the government statistics institutesaid.    The result brought year-on-year inflation to 20.36 pctcompared with 22.65 pct at end-March 1986 and 19.77 pct for theyear ending February 1987.    The government has predicted that inflation this year wouldbe slightly lower than in 1986 when it reached 20.9 pct. REUTER
PERU CONSUMER PRICES RISE 5.3 PCT IN MARCH peru's consuemr price index rose 5.3 pctlast month to 13,914.4 (base 100) following a 5.3 pct increasein february and 5.3 pct rise in march 1986, the nationalstatistics institute said.    It said that the accumulated inflation for the first threemonths of 1987 was 18.5 pct compared to 15.4 pct for the sameperiod last year.    Inflation for the 12-month period ending march 1987 was67.4 pct compared to 120.8 pct for the 12-month period endingmarch 1986. Reuter
POEHL WARNS AGAINST FURTHER DOLLAR FALL Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehlsaid a weaker dollar would be risky and a further appreciationof the mark would damage prospects for sustained West Germaneconomic growth.    In a speech to the Institute of Contempory German Affairshere, Poehl said "It would be an extremely risky policy to aimfor a further substantial decline in the value of the dollar tocorrect the trade deficit."    He said the United States could face a vicious circle ofdepreciation, inflation and more depreciation if it took thatroute.    Poehl noted West Germany had already taken steps to meetU.S. Demands for greater stimulation of its domestic economy,accelerating tax cuts, cutting interest rates and toleratingabove-target money supply growth.    He said he would have been happy to have brought forwardfive billion marks of tax cuts now planned for January 1988 tothe beginning of this year, but he said the government facedpolitical constraints getting such measures through the upperhouse of the West German parliament.    But there were also limits to the impact West Germany couldaccept on exports from a rising mark, he said.    Poehl said West Germany relied on exports for aboutone-third of its gross national product, so a substantialerosion of export markets could not be offset by increasingdemand at home.    "A further appreciation of the mark could even be anobstacle to further growth," he said.    Poehl said the Bundesbank had tolerated rapid money supplygrowth last year because the country enjoyed low inflation andbecause external factors, including low oil prices andfavourable terms of trade, had given some extra leeway.    But Poehl said West Germany now faced a difficult dilemmaover monetary policy.    The underlying rate of inflation was now two pct, not thereported negative inflation rates last year, and West Germanywas affected more than before by exchange rate developments.    "For the time being, we will have to focus our policy moreon the external side, and we can live with a more expansionarymoney supply. But we must be very careful," he said.    He said he shared some of the U.S. Concern about Japan'strade surpluses, which affected European countries as well asthe United States.    Poehl welcomed the so-called Louvre accord of monetaryofficials of major industrialized countries, saying theimportance of the February 22 agreement to stabilize exchangerates had been underestimated.    All partners had agreed that the dollar was at about theright level, and that further changes would damage growth, hesaid.    "This was a remarkable change in attitude, especially on thepart of our American colleagues," he said.    But he said there was still a danger that the correction ofthe dollar's value could overshoot. REUTER
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - KUWAITI ECONOMY Kuwait's oil-reliant and debt-riddeneconomy has started to pull out of a nosedive but oil priceswill determine the pace of recovery, bankers and economistssay.    Crucial will be the ability of the 13-member OPEC to holdoil prices around a new benchmark of 18 dlrs a barrel in thenorthern hemisphere summer when demand usually slackens.    Bankers estimate the economy, measured in terms of grossdomestic product (gdp), shrank 19 pct in real terms last yearafter contracting 8.1 pct the year before.    This was after taking into account inflation in consumerprices of 1.5 pct in 1985, slowing to 1.0 pct in 1986.    Factors depressing economic activity include the6-1/2-year-old Iran-Iraq war on Kuwait's doorstep, whichthreatens the emirate's vital oil export lifeline through theGulf and has sapped business confidence.    But sentiment received a much-needed boost in Septemberwhen, after a series of piecemeal steps to combat a debt crisiscaused by the 1982 crash of local stock market, a comprehensivenew debt settlement program was introduced.    The share crash, result of a speculative spree in forwardtrading, left 95 billion dlrs of post-dated cheques in default.    The cheques were also used as collateral for consumerspending, thus generating an informal credit system.    Much of the debt has been watered down but big sums arestill owed by individuals and companies.    There was some 4.4 billion dinars (about 15.7 billion dlrs)in outstanding bank credit at the end of 1986, of whichone-quarter to one-third was estimated by bankers to rank asbad or doubtful debt. But the government has repeatedly said itwill not allow any banks to go under.    The new debt settlement scheme entails a rescheduling ofproblem credit over 10 to 15 years, depending on whetherdebtors have regular cash flows or not.    Banks' shareholders and depositors will have their rightsguaranteed by the government -- an edict of vital significancein a country of only 1.7 mln people where the financial sectoris the biggest after oil.    Kuwait is better placed than any other OPEC country to rideout the oil glut, bankers and economists say.    Kuwait has an OPEC quota of 948,000 barrels per day (bpd)compared with production capacity of 4.0 mln bpd mentioned lastyear by Oil Minister Sheikh Ali al-Khalifa al-Sabah.    But strategic diversification into downstream operations inEurope several years ago and a hefty refining investment athome gives it guaranteed markets abroad and enables it to sellover one-half of its output as high-grade refined oil products.    Oil industry sources say Kuwait is able to get an average2.00 dlrs a barrel more by selling oil in the form of processedproduct such as gas oil, kerosene and naphtha, rather than ascrude.    Bankers say the rebound in oil prices is the major reasonfor cautious optimism. Other reasons are low domesticinflation, a bottoming out of the fall in imports in recentyears and signs government spending on productive sectors willremain steady.    External accounts are in good shape, with an estimated 1.8billion dinar current account surplus in 1986, 16 pct belowthat for 1985, but still an achievement in the recession-hitGulf.    Kuwait's petrodollar reserves in mid-1986 were putofficially at over 80 billion dlrs, earning investment incomeof the equivalent of about 3.65 billion dlrs a year.    But for the first time since the end of the oil boom, thesereserves may not be enough to prevent a "real" budget deficit forthe 1986/87 fiscal year ending June 30, bankers say.    In a budget portrayed by bankers as mildly contractionary,revenues for 1986/87 were cut 38.6 pct and spending 11 pct,doubling the nominal deficit to 1.33 billion dinars.    This left out income from state reserves, usually excludedin official budget accounting, which are forecast by bankers atup to 1.0 billion dinars in 1986/87, resulting in someshortfall.    Bankers say it is too early to venture a forecast foreconomic growth this year or next.    "It depends on oil prices," one said. "This summer isimportant."    Cabinet Affairs Minister Rashid al-Rashid said last Sundaythe cabinet has ratified recommendations to rationalise statespending in favour of productive sectors and reactivate theeconomy.    He gave no details but bankers say these are expected to bespelled out in the 1987/88 budget, possibly in June. REUTER
INDONESIAN INFLATION RATE 8.8 PCT IN 1986/87 Inflation was by 8.8 pct in Indonesiaduring fiscal 1986/87 to March 31, compared to 5.66 pct theprevious year, Information Minister Harmoko said after acabinet session to discuss the economic situation. REUTER
HUNGARY RAISES PRICES IN EFFORT TO CURB DEFICIT Hungary has announced sharp priceincreases for a range of food and consumer products as part ofits efforts to curb a soaring budget deficit.    The official MTI news agency said the government decidedconsumer price subsidies had to be cut to reduce statespending. From today the price of meat will rise by an average18 pct and that of beer and spirits by 10 pct, MTI said.    MTI said consumer goods will also become more expensive,with the price of refrigerators rising some five pct. It alsoannounced a number of measures to ease hardship, includinghigher pensions and family allowances.    Statistics indicate the budget deficit tripled in 1986 to47 billion forints. Central banker Janos Fekete has said theFinance Ministry is trying to cut the 1987 shortfall to between30 and 35 billion from a planned 43.8 billion.    A major tax reform, including the introduction of aWestern-style valued added tax, is planned for January 1988 inan effort to cure problems in state spending.    But diplomats said the latest announcement shows theauthorities were forced to act quickly to keep this year'sdeficit under control.    The measures are also aimed at cooling an overheatedeconomy, and could help dampen Hungarians' appetite forimported Western goods which consume increasingly expensivehard currency, the diplomats said.    The diplomats also said, however, that they did not expectthe kind of social unrest that followed sharp price rises inother East Bloc states, notably Poland. REUTER
AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT MUST CUT SPENDING, ANZ SAYS The government must announce harsh cutsin spending in its May 14 economic statement if it is to givean adequate response to Australia's economic problems, the ANZBanking Group Ltd <ANZA.S> said.    Cuts of two billion dlrs would be insufficient against thebackdrop of a 12 billion dlr government deficit and a 14billion dlr current account deficit, it said in its monthlyBusiness Indicators publication.    "For the past two years, the government has struggled withan economic reality that demands measures beyond those which itsees as politically practicable," it said.    The political climate meant there would be a continuedover-reliance on monetary policy to hold the exchange rate andmaintain confidence in economic management, ANZ said.    "The cost of this approach is that the much-needed revivalof business investment will be further postponed," it said.    The economy was now on a modest growth upswing boosted byexport and import-replacement industries which had created afalse suggestion that the worst adjustments to the balance ofpayments crisis were past. "Unfortunately, successful adjustmentto Australia's deep-seated economic problems remains along-term process," it said.    In its economic forecasts, ANZ said it expected moderateoverall economic growth with gross domestic product (GDP)rising 2.7 pct this year and 2.4 pct in 1988.    The current account deficit would narrow to five pct of GDPthis year and 4.3 pct in 1988 and net foreign debt would growstrongly from 81 billion at the end of 1986 to 97.2 billion atend-1987 and 110.3 billion a year later.    Inflation would fall to 8.5 pct in 1987 and 7.5 pct in 1988from 8.9 pct in 1986 and further falls in real wages wereexpected, ANZ said. REUTER
YUGOSLAV ECONOMY WORSENED IN 1986, BANK DATA SHOWS National Bank economic data for 1986shows that Yugoslavia's trade deficit grew, the inflation raterose, wages were sharply higher, the money supply expanded andthe value of the dinar fell.    The trade deficit for 1986 was 2.012 billion dlrs, 25.7 pcthigher than in 1985. The trend continued in the first threemonths of this year as exports dropped by 17.8 pct, in hardcurrency terms, to 2.124 billion dlrs.    Yugoslavia this year started quoting trade figures indinars based on current exchange rates, instead of dollarsbased on a fixed exchange rate of 264.53 dinars per dollar.    Yugoslavia's balance of payments surplus with theconvertible currency area fell to 245 mln dlrs in 1986 from 344mln in 1985. The National Bank said the drop was due to adeterioration in trade. Exports to the convertible currencyarea rose 11.6 pct from 1985, while imports rose 17.8 pct.    Retail prices rose an average of 88.1 pct in 1986 whileindustrial producer prices rose by 70.6 pct, the bank's datashowed. The cost of living rose by 89.1 pct.    Personal incomes rose by 109 pct in 1986.    Prime Minister Branko Mikulic warned in February that wageswere too high given the level of productivity.    Mikulic introduced a law cutting wages to the level of thelast quarter of 1986 and tying future rises to productivity.    Bank statistics show the overall 1986 rise in M-1 moneysupply was 109.1 pct with a year-end position of 3,895.9billion dinars. Yugoslavs have 9.8 billion dlrs worth offoreign currency savings in the country and 20 billion dlrsabroad, mostly owned by workers employed in western Europe.    The dinar fell by 73.1 pct against a basket of hardcurrencies in 1986. The highest depreciation was against theSwiss franc, 85.3 pct, and the lowest against the U.S. Dollar,46.2 pct. REUTER
BANGLADESH COST OF LIVING INDEX FALLS IN JANUARY Bangladesh's cost of living index fell1.09 pct in January to 479, after a 1.6 pct decline to 484.28in December (1973-74 base 100), the Bureau of Statistics said.    The cost of living index fell 0.14 pct to 434.49 in January1986.    In the year to January, inflation ran at 10.24 pct after an11.3 pct rate a month earlier and 9.72 pct a year earlier. REUTER
INSTITUTES DIVIDED ON OUTLOOK FOR GERMAN ECONOMY The five leading West German economicresearch institutes have failed to agree about how strongly thedomestic economy will expand this year but revised downforecasts contained in a report published six months ago.    The three research groups of Kiel, Hamburg and Essenpredicted in the institutes' joint spring report that grossnational product (GNP) would rise by two pct in 1987, comparedwith 2.4 pct in 1986. The five institutes had jointly forecastthree pct 1987 growth in October last year.    Taking a dissenting view, the DIW institute of West Berlinand Munich's Ifo institute predicted only one pct 1987 growth.    The joint report said that the estimates of economicdevelopment made by the DIW and Ifo were "markedly lessfavourable" than those of the other three.    The DIW and Ifo forecast the economy would pick up after aslow start to the year. "In the second half of 1987 there will,however, only be a weak upward movement," they said.    The two institutes said external economic factors whichwere currently damaging exports and pushing up imports woulddominate the economic environment throughout the year. They sawexports falling by a real 2-1/2 pct in 1987 and predicted nomarked improvement in the course of the year.    The other three institutes, however, wrote: "The decline indemand and production (seen) in the winter months does notindicate the beginning of a cyclical downswing."    They said the sharp rise of the mark had led to corporateuncertainty and companies had not carried out investment plans.But they expected that many investments had not been cancelledbut only put off. "It can be presumed that the braking actions(on the economy) will diminish markedly this year."    They added: "The domestic prerequisites for a continuationof the economic uptrend are still favourable."    These three institutes said diminishing external burdenscombined with favourable domestic conditions meant an upturn indemand and production could be expected by the spring.    However, this projection was clouded by risks including thefurther development of the mark against the dollar.    Contrary to the DIW and Ifo, the three institutes said thatwhile exports would continue to be the weak point of theeconomy in 1987, "there is good reason to believe that exportswill soon bottom out and that a slight rise will emerge duringthe course of the year." They predicted an overall 0.5 pct fallin exports in 1987, the same as in 1986.    The three more positive institutes saw private consumptionrising by four pct in 1987, compared with 4.2 pct in 1986,while DIW and Ifo predicted a three pct increase.    They saw the climate for equipment investment improving butpredicted only a rise of four pct in 1987 against 4.6 pct in1986. Ifo and DIW saw these investments rising by only two pct.    All the institutes predicted only a slight decline inunemployment. The Kiel, Hamburg and Essen institutes said thejobless total would average 2.17 mln in 1987 compared with 2.23mln in 1986 and predicted a rise in the number of people inwork of about 200,000.    These three institutes said new jobs would be createdmainly in the private services sector and also by the state inthe context of job creation measures. The construction industrywas likely to engage new workers for the first time since 1980but they predicted either no rise in employment in themanufactured goods industry or only a slight expansion.    The DIW and Ifo said rises in employment would occur onlyin the tertiary sector, while "the number employed in themanufacturing industry will decline."    The DIW and Ifo said unemployment would only decline to2.20 mln in 1987 from 2.23 mln in 1986.    They saw the current account surplus falling in 1987 to 58billion marks from 78 billion in 1986. The other three saw acurrent account surplus in 1987 of at least 60 billion marksand predicted that the trade surplus would fall to only around100 billion marks from 112 billion in 1986.    The institutes agreed that consumer prices would start torise in 1987, after they declined in 1986, and all fivepredicted an average increase over the year of 0.5 pct. REUTER
PORTUGUESE ECONOMY REMAINS BUOYANT DESPITE CRISIS Portugal's economy, which has beenenjoying one of its most buoyant periods in more than a decade,may now be strong enough to shrug off the country's latestgovernment crisis, analysts said.    But the April 3 ousting of Prime Minister Anibal CavacoSilva's government could slow economic reforms and investmentas Portugal continues to adapt to membership in the EuropeanCommunity, which it joined in January last year, they said.    Cavaco Silva's minority Social Democratic Party, PSD, wastoppled in a parliamentary censure vote by left-wing parties.    The centre-right administration had made economic growthreform a priority in its 17 months in office.    In 1986, Portugal's economy grew four pct, its currentaccount surplus swelled to more than one billion dlrs andinflation fell to 10 pct, from 20 pct in 1985.    Analysts and businessmen said the prospects of instabilitywere worrying but they felt the foundations for continuedgrowth had not been badly shaken.    "The economy has developed a certain self-confidence that isnow less dependent on the political situation," said FritzHaser, economics professor at Universidade Livre, Lisbon.    "The market doesn't see this as a real crisis yet," economistJorge Braga de Macedo told Reuters.    Businessmen have identified political instability over thelast 13 years as one of the biggest obstacles to lastingeconomic progress.    The PSD administration was the 16th formed since the 1974revolution.    Portugal's developing stock markets, however, remainbuoyant. Brokers and unit trust managers said the recent surgein economic confidence under the PSD rule was still largelyunderpinned by continuing optimistic forecasts.    Investment grew nearly 10 pct in 1986 and a Bank ofPortugal forecast, released on the day the PSD government fell,predicted the pace of investment and overall economic growthwould remain at similar levels this year.    But analysts said the crisis interrupted current policiesand could slow economic development.    Soares, who is expected to announce a decision by the endof the month, can either call early elections or form a newgovernment from parties in the existing left wing-dominatedparliament.    Many businessmen said they strongly favoured quickelections as the best solution. "There is a good chance that amajority government could result from early elections,"Confederation of Portuguese Industry (CIP) president PedroFerraz da Costa said.    He said they were optimistic this could mean thecontinuation in the near future of liberalisation policiesintroduced over the last year.    The left-wing parties favour a parliamentary solution, butthe PSD said it wants an early election in which opinion pollssay they could win an overall majority.    A PSD majority would also open the way for morewide-ranging reforms, such as relaxation of labour laws andpossible denationalisation of industry, the analysts said.    Cavaco Silva has accused the left-wing opposition partiesof blocking key economic reforms.    The left-wingers said Portugal's positive economic resultswere more the product of favourable international conditionssuch as cheaper oil and raw material imports, than of PSDpolicies. REUTER
HUNGARY RAISES PRICES IN EFFORT TO CURB DEFICIT Hungary has announced sharp priceincreases for a range of food and consumer products as part ofits efforts to curb a soaring budget deficit.    The official MTI news agency said the government decidedconsumer price subsidies had to be cut to reduce statespending. From today the price of meat will rise by an average18 pct and that of beer and spirits by 10 pct, MTI said.    The measures are also aimed at cooling an overheatedeconomy, and could help dampen Hungarians' appetite forimported Western goods which consume increasingly expensivehard currency, the diplomats said.    The diplomats also said, however, that they did not expectthe kind of social unrest that followed sharp price rises inother East Bloc states, notably Poland.    MTI said consumer goods will also become more expensive,with the price of refrigerators rising some five pct. It alsoannounced a number of measures to ease hardship, includinghigher pensions and family allowances. Reuter
GERMAN INSTITUTES WARN ON MONEY SUPPLY Four of West Germany's five leadingeconomic research institutes warned that excessive monetarygrowth threatened a resurgence of inflation.    But in a dissenting view the DIW institute in West Berlin,echoing recent statements by leading Bundesbank officials, saidthe expansion seen over the last 1-1/2 years did notnecessarily threaten stability.    The five institutes issued a joint spring report, in whichthree -- Kiel, Hamburg and Essen -- forecast a two pct rise inGNP in 1987, while West Berlin and Munich predicted one pct.    The four institutes said an expansive policy was welcome inview of the slowdown in economic activity. But experience hasshown that strong monetary growth eventually leads to a pricerise which undoes the beneficial effects of monetary policy.    Given virtual zero inflation in West Germany such fears mayseem exaggerated, they said.    "But it has often turned out in the past that the priceclimate can quickly deteriorate, forcing the central bank intoa restrictive policy," they said.    The economic costs of a preventive stability policy areless than fighting inflation once it has taken hold, they said.    The four institutes disputed the view that monetaryexpansion would slow of its own accord in 1987 as domesticinvestors switch liquidity into longer term capital marketinvestments following lower interest rates.    "Such redispositions may temporarily dampen the expansion ofcentral bank money stock, but do not automatically lead to asmaller expansion of money supply," they said.    A return to growth and stability did not requirespectacular central bank moves, but could be done quietly withopen market operations and repurchase pacts, which would avoidan interest rate rise by dampening inflationary expectations.    The DIW institute said monetary policy should not befocused simply on growth of production potential. Because ofuncertainty about exchange rate developments and economicweakness other factors should be taken into account.    Monetary policy should aim for further interest rate cutsand avoid rises to boost the economy and discourage revaluationspeculation. Recent strong monetary expansion was not a threatin itself to price stability.    The 1979/81 inflation following strong 1977/78 money growthreflected other causes, such as rising oil prices and thefalling mark. REUTER
PORTUGUESE CONSUMER PRICES UP 1.4 PCT IN MARCH Portugal's consumer prices rose 1.4 pctin March after a one pct increase in February and a 1.2 pctrise in March 1986, the National Statistics Institute said.    The consumer price index (base 100 for 1976) rose to 772.0from 761.3 in February and compared with 703.4 in March 1986.    This gave a year-on-year March inflation rate of 9.8 pctagainst 9.5 pct in February and 12.2 pct in March 1986.    Measured as an annual average rate, inflation in March was10.9 pct compared with 11.1 pct in February. The governmentforecasts annual inflation of about eight pct this year. REUTER
NEW ZEALAND CPI RISES 2.3 PCT IN MARCH QUARTER New Zealand's consumer price index,CPI, which measures the rate of inflation, rose 2.3 pct in thequarter ended March 31 against an 8.9 pct rise in the December1986 quarter and a 2.3 pct rise in the March 1986 quarter, theStatistics Department said.    For the 12 months ended March 1987 the CPI rose 18.3 pctagainst 18.2 pct in 12 months ended December 1986 and 13.0 pctin the 12 months ended March 1986, it said in a statement.    Nearly half the increase in the latest quarterly index wascontributed by the housing group, the department said.    The December quarter was significantly affected by theintroduction of a 10 pct value added goods and services tax,GST, in October 1986, it added.    However, some GST charges not measured in the December 1986quarter influenced the latest March quarterly figure, it said.    This is because of an unavoidable lag in price information,particularly on housing, used cars and insurance on householdcontents, it added. Reuter
OECD CONSUMER PRICES RISE IN FEBRUARY Consumer prices in the countries of theOrganisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)rose 0.3 pct in February and inflation rose to 2.4 pctyear-on-year, the OECD said in a communique.    The OECD attributed the rise in consumer prices to theeffects of the February 1986 drop in energy prices workingtheir way out of the index. The February increase was less thanJanauary's 0.4 pct increase but slightly above the average forthe later months of 1986.    Inflation in the 24 western industrialised nations inJanuary was a revised 1.9 pct year-on-year.     Retail energy prices rose by 0.3 pct, less than January's1.1 pct increase. Energy prices for consumers were still ninepct lower than a year earlier, it said.    Consumer prices excluding food and energy rose 0.3 pct inFebruary, in line with previous months, although there has beensome acceleration noticeable in the U.S. And Britain.    Among the leading seven industrial countries, consumerprice inflation was highest in Italy at 4.2 pct, followed byCanada at 4.0 pct, Britain at 3.9 pct, France at 3.4 pct, theU.S. At 2.1 pct and West Germany and Japan with negative ratesof 0.5 pct and 1.4 pct respectively. REUTER
SPAIN'S CONSUMER PRICES RISE 0.6 PCT IN MARCH Spain's consumer price index rose 0.6pct in March after a 0.4 pct increase in February and 0.3 pctin March last year, the National Statistics Institute said.    The March rise brought the year on year rate to 6.3 pct.The government has set a five pct target for 1987 consumerprice inflation after an 8.3 pct increase last year. REUTER
SPAIN MAINTAINS FIVE PCT INFLATION TARGET Spanish Secretary of State for theeconomy Guillermo de la Dehesa said the government maintainedits five pct inflation target for this year although a 0.6 pctincrease in March pushed the rise in the year on year consumerprice index to 6.3 pct.    De la Dehesa said the March rise, announced today by theNational Statistics Institute, was not entirely satisfactorybut acceptable.    The year on year rate at the end of February was six pct.Prices rose 8.3 pct last year.    The March rise included a 0.05 pct increase correcting anerror in last January's consumer price index. Economists hadearlier said the error could have been as high as 0.2 pct.    De la Dehesa said seasonal increases in food prices pushedthe index up in March and he expected the rate to be lower inApril.    The Communist-led Workers Commissions union said the Marchprice rise showed inflation was going up again and thegovernment looked increasingly unlikely to meet its five pcttarget.    The Workers Commissions said the inflation trend fuelledunions's claims to wage increases beyond the government'srecomendation to limit wage rises at around five pct.    Spain is being affected by a two-month-old wave of strikesfor wage rises. Government officials note wage settlements sofar this year have yielded average increases upwards of sixpct, while unions say the figure is higher then seven pct. REUTER
SWISS GROWTH SEEN SLOWING THIS YEAR AND NEXT The growth of the Swisseconomy will likely slow to 2.2 pct this year and 1.9 pct in1988 after reaching 2.8 pct last year, according to a study bya group at Basle University's Institute of Applied Economics.    It blamed the expected slowdown partly on a disappointingoutlook for exports caused by the weaker dollar. Exports wouldlikely grow by 2.8 pct this year and by 3.0 pct in 1988, after3.0 pct in 1986, the group predicted.    Final domestic demand will also fall back, to a likely 3.0pct this year and 2.3 pct next, after 4.1 pct in 1986. However,the domestic picture will likely be mixed.    The study said investment in plant and equipment wouldcontinue to be the main motor for the growth in domesticdemand, although it was unlikely to grow as fast as last year's7.4 pct, rising this year by 4.5 pct and by 2.8 pct in 1988.    While the growth in private consumption is expected to fallback to 2.5 pct this year and 2.1 pct in 1988 from last year's3.1 pct, public consumption spending will likely grow by 1.9pct in 1987 and 2.0 pct next year, after 1.5 pct in 1986.    Consumer prices were seen rising by 1.7 pct this year and2.4 pct in 1988, after just 0.8 pct in 1986. Unemploymentshould fall back to 0.7 pct from last year's 0.8 pct. REUTER
FED SPOKESMAN SAYS NO NEWS CONFERENCE PLANNED The Federal Reserve Board has nonews conference or announcement planned for today, a Fedspokesman said, dispelling market rumors that a statement waspending.    "No such event is scheduled or planned," said spokesman BobMoore.    Rumors of a pending Fed announcement or news conferencecirculated in financial markets, following a government reportthat consumer prices advanced by 0.4 pct in March, suggesting arapid rise of inflation. Reuter
WHITE HOUSE SAYS MARCH CPI "NO CAUSE FOR ALARM" The White House said last month's0.4 per cent in increase in the CPI, the third sharp rise inthree months and one that brought the annual inflation rate to6.2 pct so far this year, was no cause for alarm.    "While this is something to watch, it's not something to bealarmed about," said spokesman Marlin Fitzwater.    He said the three month increase in inflation was duealmost entirely to higher energy prices.    Fitzwater said once an OPEC price hike is "passed throughthe system," the nation should see a slowing of the inflationrate to the administration's 3.8 pct 1987 forecast. REUTER
SEAGA PRESENTS GROWTH BUDGET FOR 1987 prime minister edward seagalast night presented a budget of 6.9 billion jamaica dlrs, thelargest in the country's history, which projects increases incapital spending and continued divestment of state companies.    In a nationally televised speech to the parliament, theprime minister, who is also minister of finance, said jamaica'sgdp grew by four pct, the highest level in 15 years, whileunemployment stood at 23.6 pct, down from last year's 26 pct.Inflation, meanwhile, was 9.4 pct, as compared to 19.7 pct twoyears ago.    Government revenues were up by 419 mln jamaica dlrs, to 4.3billion, enough to finance the entire recurrent expenditure of3.7 billion dlrs, with a 666 mln dlr surplus.    Seaga said that with financial accounts in order, thegovernment will proceed to reduce the country's debt serviceratio from the current level of 49 pct of gdp to 25 pct overthe next five years.    During this period, he said, growth would be targetted atthree to four pct.    The 6.9 billion dlr budget, which represents an increase of18 pct over last year's 5.8 billion, will be financed byborrowing of 8.868 billion dlrs and estmated revenue of 1.385billion.    Seaga said 1.835 billion of the budget will go to finance agovernment capital investment program. The plan, whichrepresents a 10.3 pct increase over last year, projects greaterspending on health, education, housing and infrastructure. Some818 mln dlrs in revenue to finance the budget will come fromthe government's divestment program, which seaga said will bestepped up in 1987. Reuter
U.S. ENERGY COSTS ROSE IN MARCH BY 1.0 PCT Consumer energy costs rose 1.0 pctin March following a moderate rise last month, the LaborDepartment said.    The March increase in the overall energy costs, includingpetroleum, coal and natural gas, followed a 3.0 pct rise inJanuary and a 1.9 pct rise in February, it said.    However, energy prices were 5.6 pct below year-ago levels.    The department's Consumer Price Index showed that the costof gasoline rose in March by 2.3 pct, after a 4.2 pct rise inFebruary.    Gasoline prices were nonetheless 5.9 pct below their levelsas of March 1986.    Also, the category including fuel oil, coal and bottled gasrose in March by 1.4 pct, putting it 9.0 pct under the year-agofigure.    The index also showed that natural gas and electricity wereunchanged last month, but down 3.1 pct from the March 1986figure, the department said.    The index has been updated to reflect 1982-84 consumptionpatterns. Previously, the index was based on 1972-73 patterns. Reuter
OECD WARNS SWEDEN ON LABOUR COSTS High labour costs and slower corporateinvestment could hinder Sweden's economic growth after 1987,the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development,OECD, said.    The Swedish economy grew at a slower rate in 1986 than inprevious years. GDP rose about 1.7 pct in 1986 compared with2.2 pct in 1985. But this growth depended largely on externalfactors, particularly lower oil prices, the OECD secretariatsaid in its latest annual report on Sweden.    It warned that labour costs had risen more rapidly inSweden than in other OECD countries.    Because of high labour costs Swedish industry, whichlargely relies upon export markets, was losing market share.Wages in the manufacturing sector grew by seven pct in 1986, inline with 1985 increases, while public sector wages rose anestimated 9.2 pct in 1986, up from six pct in 1985.    This was significantly higher than average wage increasesof 3.75 pct for the seven largest members of the OECD in 1986.    The report said wage moderation was central to maintainingeconomic growth in Sweden. It suggested that wage negotiationsshould be at least partly centralised to control the totalwages bill and hold down inflation and unemployment levels.    Helped by low oil prices and the government's tight fiscalpolicy, inflation fell to just over three pct in 1986 fromalmost six pct in 1985 but remained higher than in most otherOECD countries, the report said.    Unemployment, a principal policy target, was at 2.7 pct in1986, in line with 1985's 2.8 pct and well below the OECDaverage of 8.6 pct. The report said Sweden's employmentpolicies accounted for the high levels of wage inflation.    It also said that economic growth in 1986 reliedincreasingly on private consumption because corporateinvestment in machinery and equipment had shrunk.    The total volume of industrial investments dropped by twopct in 1986, with sharp declines in spending by the wood, pulpand paper industries. This compared to a 19 pct rise in 1985when there was heavy investment in these industries.    The OECD said Sweden should now make an effort to boostcorporate investments and reduce its dependence on domesticconsumption for economic growth. It suggested there was roomfor reform in the tax system.    Sweden should continue to cut public sector spending,especially in local government, to keep in line with itstighter fiscal policy, the report said. REUTER
BUNDESBANK AIMS FOR TIGHT MONEY POLICY - SCHLESINGER The Bundesbank is trying to keepmonetary policy tight in order to counter inflationarytendencies, Bundesbank Vice-President Helmut Schlesinger wasquoted as saying.    "We are trying to keep the monetary framework tight, so thatinflationary pressures cannot develop," he told the FrankfurterNeue Presse daily in an interview.    "Central bank money stock does not have to be reducedbecause of this, but it must continue to grow modestly," hesaid.    Bundesbank spokesmen were not available for comment.    On Thursday Schlesinger said in a contribution to theHandelsblatt daily that the accommodative monetary stance inWest Germany caused by outside pressures could not determinepolicy in the long term.    The improvement in West German terms of trade, providingroom for non-inflationary expansion of domestic demand inexcess of output growth, put the overshoot of central bankmoney stock in a more positive light, he said on Thursday.    Central bank money stock, the Bundesbank's main monetarymeasure, was growing at an annual rate of 7.3 pct in March,above the 1987 three-six pct target range.    Money stock overshot the 3.5-5.5 pct 1986 growth target.    Schlesinger told the Frankfurter Neue Presse that the phaseof falling prices was over in West Germany.    Prices might still be lower on a comparison with theirlevel one year earlier. But the cost of living index has risento 120.7 in March from its November 1986 low of 120.0,expressing a slight rise in prices, Schlesinger said.    In March the cost of living was steady against February but0.2 pct below March 1986.    Schlesinger said a rise of between one and 1.5 pct during1987 would be acceptable, and effectively mean price stability.    Agreements so far in the current West German wage round areneutral as far as inflation is concerned because of thestrength of the mark, Schlesinger said.    Wage agreements in the public service and engineeringindustry were relatively high in view of the stable cost ofliving. But the higher costs would be compensated for, he said.    "I am thinking above all of the fact that in the course ofthis year we will in all probability have a stronger markagainst other currencies than last year," he said, adding"Without this mark revaluation effect, we would have had to saythat the wage rise agreements were not neutral for prices."    Schlesinger said exchange rate movements had increased thescope for redistributing wealth this year, but this developmentwas unlikely to continue in 1988.    "For this reason I cannot comment on that part of theengineering agreement which covers the coming years," he said.    Some 2.3 mln workers for the public services received a 3.4pct pay rise from January 1. An agreement for four mlnengineering workers raised pay by 3.7 pct from April 1, andthen raises pay by another two pct from April 1, 1988 and by2.5 pct from April 1, 1989. The engineering agreement also cutsthe working week by 1-1/2 hours to 37 hours in two stages. REUTER
VENEZUELA PREPARING NEW WAGE, INFLATION PLAN President Jaime Lusinchi is preparingan economic package in response to demands from organisedlabour in Venezuela for a general wage increase and controls oninflation, the state news agency Venpres reported.    Venpres said the plan includes pay hikes and a "strategyagainst indiscriminate increases in prices or speculation."    The Venezuelan Workers Confederation (CTV), the country'slargest labour group, last week proposed a general wageincrease of between 10 and 30 pct and a six-month freeze onconsumer prices and on layoffs.    The CTV asked Lusinchi to respond to its proposal beforethe May 1 Workers' Day holiday.    Labour's demands comes as private economists forecastinflation will reach between 25 and 30 pct in 1987 as thecountry begins to feel the effects of the December devaluationof the bolivar by 100 pct against the dollar.    Inflation increased 4.2 pct in the first two months of1987, almost double the rate in the same 1986 period.    Venpres said Lusinchi is prepared to approve some priceincreases, but intends to protect the public againstspeculation and indiscriminate hikes in the cost of living. REUTER
THAI ECONOMY TO ACHIEVE FIVE PCT GROWTH THIS YEAR Thailand's gross domestic product willexpand five pct this calendar year, up from 3.8 pct in 1986,despite a projected slight decline in agricultural output dueto drought, the Bank of Thailand said.    Central bank spokesman Siri Karncharoendi told reportersthe Thai economy clearly recovered in the first quarter fromthe lingering effects of the 1984-85 recession.    He said the industrial sector is expected to expand 5.5 pctthis year, up from five pct in 1986. Agricultural output isprojected to grow 2.8 pct after 1.5 pct contraction in 1986.    He said January/March imports grew 19.2 pct to 70.7 billionbaht, in response to an improving domestic market, comparedwith a nine pct decline to 59.3 billion a year ago. Non-oilimports grew 24.8 pct to 60.2 billion baht while oil importsdeclined 5.6 pct to 10.5 billion.    First quarter exports increased 12.7 pct to 63.2 billionbaht compared with 14.4 pct and 56.1 billion a year ago.    Siri said he expects the trade deficit to widen to about 30billion baht this year from 17.4 billion in 1986. The currentaccount, which last year posted a surplus of 3.5 billion baht,is projected to return to a 7.4 billion deficit in 1987.    He said overall January/March lending by the Thai bankingsystem grew a strong nine pct to 577.9 billion baht, up from4.7 pct growth in the previous quarter and 5.8 pct for thewhole of 1986.    He said the Thai consumer price index rose 1.8 pct in thefirst quarter, down from 2.3 pct a year ago, but added thatwith the economy picking up, inflation is expected to rise to2.5 pct this year from 1.9 pct for the whole 1986. REUTER
U.K. ECONOMY STRONGER THAN AT BUDGET, LAWSON SAYS The U.K. Economy looks stronger than itdid only last month, when the government unveiled its budgetfor fiscal 1987/88, Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawsonsaid.    He told Parliament that "all the indicators that have beenpublished since the budget confirm that, if anything, we aredoing even better than I suggested then." The budget wasunveiled on March 17.    "The PSBR (Public Sector Borrowing Requirement) has come outlower than I forecast in the Budget. Inflation, too, is lowerthan I suggested ... (and) the current account of the balanceof payments is also performing better, so far, than Ipredicted."    The budget foresaw inflation easing to 4.0 pct at the endof this year after peaking at around 4.5 pct. Lawson said atthe time that the overall 1986/87 PSBR would be around 4.0billion stg. It was in fact lower, at 3.3 billion stg.    He had also projected average GDP growth in calendar 1987of 3.0 pct after 2.5 pct in 1986. Lawson today said "outputappears to be rising, if anything, rather faster."    Speaking during a House of Commons debate, he said, "by theend of this year we will have registered the longest period ofsteady growth, at close to 3.0 pct a year, that the Britisheconomy has known since the (Second World) War."    The 1987/88 budget contained a proposal to cut the basicrate of taxation by two pence, to 27 pence in the pound.    Lawson today reaffirmed that the government aimed tofurther cut the standard rate to "no more than 25p." He said thatthat objective "should not take too long to achieve."    Turning to policies proposed by political oppositionparties, Lawson said those advocated by the Labour Party wouldentail extra public expenditure of some 34 billion stg.    That, he said, "would require either a doubling of the basicrates of income tax or more than trebling the standard rate of(valued added tax) VAT," which is currently 15 pct.    On value added tax, Lawson noted that the Conservativegovernment promised back in 1984 not to extend VAT to food.    "Beyond that, the incidence of taxation has to be determinedin the light of the budgetary needs at the time, and noresponsible government could conceivably take any otherposition," he said. Labour MPs have accused the Conservatives ofplanning VAT increases for some essential consumer goods.    Lawson reiterated his belief that reductions in taxationcan often produce higher, not lower, revenues  "thus leading tothe scope for still further reductions in taxation."    Lawson said "inheritance tax is expected this year to yieldalmost 50 pct more in real terms than Capital Transfer Tax didin 1978-79. The yield of Capital Gains Tax is forecast to be 80pct higher in real terms, and Stamp Duty up by 140 pct."    He said that "the greatly increased yield of CorporationTax, reflecting greatly increased company profitability, isclearly connected with the reform of Corporation Taxation Iintroduced in 1984, which brought the rate of tax on companyprofits in this country to the lowest in the industrialisedworld." REUTER
GONZALEZ PLEDGES FIRM ANTI-INFLATION BATTLE Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez, facingan increasingly violent wave of labour unrest, has toldSpaniards he is determined to bring down inflation even if itmeans slower growth and fewer votes for his Socialist Party.    In a 50-minute television interview broadcast live,Gonzalez criticized widespread protests which have blown upless than a year after he won a resounding general electionvictory.    "It seems so important to us that sometimes I ask myself'Why don't they understand when I explain this?'" Gonzalez saidof the anti-inflation strategy designed to modernise Spain andmake its economy competitive within the European Community.    Gonzalez said the illegal work-to-rule at the airline wasgrounding more and more planes and producing a backlog ofmaintenance work which would not be cleared until the summer.    "The comfortable thing to do would be to give in and have noproblems," the 44-year-old prime minister said, adding thatnothing could justify the use of violence in a democracy.    Gonzalez said he still believed it was possible to reduceinflation to five pct this year from the current rate of 6.3pct, even though other government officials have admitted thetarget may now be beyond reach. Reuter
VENEZUELA APPROVES WAGE INCREASES, PRICE CONTROLS Venezuelan president Jaime Lusinchiapproved a general wage increase in the form of bonuses rangingfrom 20 to 30 pct and a 120-day price freeze on a basket ofbasic consumer goods.    Both measures, which take effect on May 1, were approved bythe cabinet. They will be announced to the nation by Lusinchiin a televised address tonight but the text of the decrees wasreleased this afternoon.    Businessmen, who met Lusinchi, opposed the pay rise, sayingit will fuel inflation. The inflation rate was 11.5 pct in 1986and private economists say it will be 25 to 30 pct in 1987.    The central bank said first quarter inflation was 6.3 pct.    The wage increase for public and private sector employeeswill be 30 pct on salaries of up to 2,100 bolivars a month. Forsalaries of from 2,101 to 6,100 bolivars 25 pct and for thoseof 6,101 to 20,000 bolivars 20 pct.    The measures were taken in response to a request from theVenezuelan confederation CTV for an increase to offset the lossin the purchasing power of workers' salaries. It estimated theloss at 40 pct.    The general wage rise is the third granted by Lusinchisince his government took office in February 1984.    The wage increases are a bonus and will not be consideredin calculating benefits or severance pay, the decree said.    At the same time, Lusinchi declared a freeze on lay-offsand firings for the next 120 days.    The price freeze applies to a group of 120 foods and otherconsumer goods declared to be "of primary necessity."    It does not apply to prices charged by agriculturalproducers or to goods for which the price is falling.    The decree establishes fines of between 1,000 and 500,000bolivars for merchants who violate the price control measure. REUTER
PERU CONSUMER PRICES RISE 5.9 PCT IN MAY Peru's consumer price index rose 5.9 pct inMay to 15,706.5 (base 1979) compared to 6.6 pct in April and3.3 pct in May 1986, the National Statistics Institute said.    It said accumulated inflation for the first five months ofthis year was 33.8 pct against 24.1 pct for the same period in1986.    Inflation for the year ending May 1987 was 75.7 pctcompared to 76.8 pct for the year ending May 1986. REUTER
S.AFRICA EXPECTED TO UNVEIL EXPANSIONARY BUDGET South Africa is expected to unveiltomorrow an expansionary budget for the second consecutive yearin a bid to boost the nation's flagging economic growth rate,economic analysts said.    Faced with competing demands for increased military andpolice spending and the pressing need for more funds for blackhousing and education, Finance Minister Barend Du Plessis isexpected to raise significantly the government's overallexpenditure targets when he presents the budget to parliament,the analysts said.    Analysts expect Du Plessis to provide for a rise in statespending at least equal to the 16 pct inflation rate for thefinancial year that started on April 1, while ignoring pleasfrom the private sector to stimulate growth by cutting taxes.    "Fiscal policy has become gradually more expansionary, butsimply raising government spending and increasing the budgetdeficit is an inflationary form of stimulation," said Rob Lee,chief economist at South African Mutual Life Assurance Co.    South Africa this year is targeting inflation-adjustedgrowth in GDP of three pct against an increase last year ofless than one pct.    Growth in GDP over the past decade has averaged about 1.5pct, while the unemployment rate among blacks has spiralled toover 30 pct.    Economists estimate that the government's spending targetwill rise to about 47 billion rand, with revenue budgeted ataround 40 billion rand. This would leave a budget deficitbefore borrowing of about seven billion rand, or four pct ofGDP.    The government, having consistently overshot its ownspending targets for more than a decade, also faces acredibility crisis over expenditure figures outlined in thebudget, analysts said.    "The budget is invariably too optimistic on expenditure,"said Standard Bank Ltd in a budget preview.    Many analysts in the private sector are now paying lessattention to the figures presented in the budget and are usingtheir own estimates of expenditure to draw conclusions for themoney and capital markets.    South African Mutual's Lee believes government spendingwill again exceed the budget target and increase to around 49billion rand this year, leaving a deficit of between 5 and 5.5pct of GDP, compared with a three pct limit suggested by theIMF.    "The IMF limit is obviously going to be abandoned," predictedone analyst, noting that South Africa has moved steadily awayfrom austerity measures recommended by the IMF over the pasttwo years.    The policy shift followed a dramatic deterioration in thepolitical situation and the onset of an economic crisistriggered by the refusal of major foreign banks to roll overloans to the country in September 1985.    Against a background of Western economic sanctions, fallingper capita incomes, rising joblessness and high inflation,government officials say economic growth is the primeobjective.    But private-sector economists caution that the government'sability to promote growth by boosting state spending isconstrained by the need to maintain a large surplus on thecurrent account of the country's balance of payments.    Most of that surplus, this year estimated at around 2.5billion dlrs, will be swallowed up by repayments on thenation's estimated 23 billion dlr foreign debt in terms of anarrangement reached earlier this year with major internationalcreditor banks.    Within these constraints, economists believe Du Plessis haslittle room to manoeuvre.    Analysts argue recent rises in civil service salaries andbudgeted spending increases for the state-owned Post Office andSouth African Transport Services suggest that major taxconcessions to individuals or corporations are unlikely.    Du Plessis earlier this year announced small concessionsfor taxpayers in a mini-budget before the May 6 whites-onlyelection. The poll delayed presentation of the national budget.    "This will not be a very exciting budget," commented HarrySchwarz, spokesman on finance for the liberal ProgressiveFederal Party. "I do not expect any major tax cuts as all thesweets were given out before the election." REUTER
BRAZIL'S SARNEY RENEWS CALL FOR WAR ON INFLATION President Jose Sarney today declared "awar without quarter" on inflation and said the government wouldwatch every cent of public expenditure.    Sarney, addressing his cabinet live on television, alsoreiterated that he intended to remain in power for five years,until 1990. There has been a long-running political debateabout how long his mandate should be.    Brazil is currently suffering from the worst inflation ofits history. In April monthly inflation reached 21 pct. Reuter
ISRAELI INFLATION 0.6 PCT IN MAY Israel's inflation rate for May was0.6 pct, the lowest since last July when there was no increase,the Central Bureau of Statistics said.    In April, inflation was 2.2 pct and the figure for May lastyear was 1.6 pct. The rate for the first five months of 1987was 7.5 pct, the bureau said.    The annual inflation rate for the past 12 months was 20.3pct, a bureau spokesman said.    Israeli inflation was running at an annual rate of morethan 400 pct until the government imposed an austerity plancontrolling wages and prices in mid-1985. REUTER
HIGHER GROWTH, UNEMPLOYMENT IN FRANCE, OECD SAYS France's growth rate is expected tostrengthen in the second half of this year after a poor firsthalf, but unemployment will worsen, the Organisation forEconomic Cooperation and Development (OECD) said.    In its semi-annual review of the world economy, the OECDforecast that growth in the French Gross Domestic Product (GDP)would run at about two pct in the next six months. It said therate would be in line with the 1986 trends, but significantlyhigher than in the first half of this year.    The OECD said France's economic situation has deterioratedsomewhat during the early months of 1987.     Activity has slowed, primarily reflecting an inventoryadjustment, while unemployment has risen rapidly and inflationhas reaccelerated, the OECD said. Unemployment is likely toreach 12 pct of the workforce by the end of 1988.    The report said inflation should slow and domestic demandpick up in the second half of this year. But both data arelikely to be worse than those recorded in 1986, it added.    The OECD forecast a 2.75 pct rise in consumer prices forthe second half of this year, a one pct drop from the first sixmonths. The slowdown would bring the inflation rate to 3.25 pctfor the whole year, sharply up from last year's 2.2 pct. REUTER
ECONOMIC GROWTH SEEN SLUGGISH IN BENELUX COUNTRIES Economic growth will remain sluggish inthe Netherlands and Belgium next year and unemployment mayrise, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Developmentforecast.    Belgium's GDP growth may slow down to 1.5 pct this year andnext year, bringing a rise in the number of jobless, the OECDsaid in its semi-annual survey. Belgian inflation couldstabilise at 1.5 to 2.0 pct, while the current account surpluswill probably remain large at about three pct of GDP.    While the Belgian government has made progress in trimmingits borrowing requirement, "it will probably be insufficient tocheck the self-sustaining nature of the deficit," the OECD said.    In the Netherlands real GDP growth will also slip to 1.5pct this year and one pct in 1988, with Dutch exports becomingless competitive and imports rising. "Employment is forecast todecelerate as well, reflecting more sluggish growth in theprivate sector and budgetary cuts," the report said.    Dutch consumer prices are set to fall by 0.5 pct in 1987and stay stable in 1988, partly as a result of decliningdomestic gas prices.    Luxembourg's economy, by contrast, will see slightly fastergrowth in GDP this year as a result of an upward movement inwages. But real growth in consumption will ease next year.REUTER
CANADA MAY CONSUMER PRICE INDEX RISES 0.6 PCT, ST Compagnie Industriali Riunite (CIR) hasasked Citicorp Investment Bank Ltd to arrange a 200 mln dlrsyndicated loan facility, which will have a final maturity ofseven years, Citicorp said.    Continental Illinois Ltd and Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd willbe coordinators for the facility, which will be in the name ofCIR International S.A., Luxembourg and guaranteeed by CompagnieIndustriali Riunite SpA.    Banks will be able to terminate their participation at theend of year five or year six, subject to four years priornotice.    There is an availability period of 12 months during which acommitment fee of 0.0625 pct per annum is payable on undrawnamounts. Interest on the drawn loan will be 0.15 pct over theLondon Interbank Offered Rate.    The borrower is the holding company for Carlo diBenedetti's various companies, which include Ing C. Olivetti ECSpA. REUTER
CANADA CONSUMER PRICE INDEX UP 0.6 PCT IN MAY Canada's consumer price index rose 0.6pct in May to 137.8, base 1981, following a 0.4 pct rise inApril and a 0.5 pct rise in May 1986, Statistics Canada said.    The May year-on-year rise was 4.6 pct, compared with a 4.5pct rise in April. Reuter
 German June cost of living 0.2 pct above year- Sony Corp <SNE.T> will issue a 75 billionyen 15-year unsecured convertible bond through public placementmainly in Japan, a company spokesman said.    Co-lead managers are Nomura Securities Co Ltd <NMSC.T>,Daiwa Securities Co Ltd <DSEC.T>, Yamaichi Securities Co Ltd<YSEC.T> and Nikko Securities Co Ltd <NIKT.T>.    Coupon and conversion price for the par-priced bondmaturing on September 30, 2002 will be set at its board meetingto be held in late July. Payment is due on August 17.    U.S. And Canadian residents are excluded from subscribing. REUTER
EC ANNUAL INFLATION FALLS IN MAY The European Community's annualinflation rate fell marginally to 3.2 pct in May from 3.3 pctin April, the EC's statistics office Eurostat said.    Prices in the 12-nation bloc rose 0.2 pct in May after 0.6pct in April. But the annual rate stayed below that of the U.S.For the second month in succession, following the release offigures showing U.S. Inflation of 3.8 pct in both April andMay.    However, Eurostat said the EC was still beaten by Japan,where prices were provisionally 0.1 pct lower in May than ayear earlier. REUTER
FED'S JOHNSON SEES EASING OF INFLATIONARY FEARS Federal Reserve Board Vice-ChairmanManuel Johnson said the inflationary expectations in thefinancial markets have eased since the Fed's last half-pointincrease in its discount rate to 6.0 pct.    "We have seen the kind of expectational forces develop Ithink that we've been satisfied with since our last discountrate move," Johnson said.    Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan has said the most recentdiscount rate increase on September 4 was largely aimed atquelling inflationary fears in financial markets which he saidwere largely unfounded. Reuter
