DIAMOND SHAMROCK (DIA) CUTS CRUDE PRICES Diamond Shamrock Corp said thateffective today it had cut its contract prices for crude oil by1.50 dlrs a barrel.    The reduction brings its posted price for West TexasIntermediate to 16.00 dlrs a barrel, the copany said.    "The price reduction today was made in the light of fallingoil product prices and a weak crude oil market," a companyspokeswoman said.    Diamond is the latest in a line of U.S. oil companies thathave cut its contract, or posted, prices over the last two daysciting weak oil markets. Reuter
OPEC MAY HAVE TO MEET TO FIRM PRICES - ANALYSTS OPEC may be forced to meet before ascheduled June session to readdress its production cuttingagreement if the organization wants to halt the current slidein oil prices, oil industry analysts said.    "The movement to higher oil prices was never to be as easyas OPEC thought. They may need an emergency meeting to sort outthe problems," said Daniel Yergin, director of Cambridge EnergyResearch Associates, CERA.    Analysts and oil industry sources said the problem OPECfaces is excess oil supply in world oil markets.    "OPEC's problem is not a price problem but a productionissue and must be addressed in that way," said Paul Mlotok, oilanalyst with Salomon Brothers Inc.    He said the market's earlier optimism about OPEC and itsability to keep production under control have given way to apessimistic outlook that the organization must address soon ifit wishes to regain the initiative in oil prices.    But some other analysts were uncertain that even anemergency meeting would address the problem of OPEC productionabove the 15.8 mln bpd quota set last December.    "OPEC has to learn that in a buyers market you cannot havedeemed quotas, fixed prices and set differentials," said theregional manager for one of the major oil companies who spokeon condition that he not be named. "The market is now trying toteach them that lesson again," he added.    David T. Mizrahi, editor of Mideast reports, expects OPECto meet before June, although not immediately. However, he isnot optimistic that OPEC can address its principal problems.    "They will not meet now as they try to take advantage of thewinter demand to sell their oil, but in late March and Aprilwhen demand slackens," Mizrahi said.    But Mizrahi said that OPEC is unlikely to do anything morethan reiterate its agreement to keep output at 15.8 mln bpd."    Analysts said that the next two months will be critical forOPEC's ability to hold together prices and output.    "OPEC must hold to its pact for the next six to eight weekssince buyers will come back into the market then," said DillardSpriggs of Petroleum Analysis Ltd in New York.    But Bijan Moussavar-Rahmani of Harvard University's Energyand Environment Policy Center said that the demand for OPEC oilhas been rising through the first quarter and this may haveprompted excesses in its production.    "Demand for their (OPEC) oil is clearly above 15.8 mln bpdand is probably closer to 17 mln bpd or higher now so what weare seeing characterized as cheating is OPEC meeting thisdemand through current production," he told Reuters in atelephone interview. Reuter
TEXACO CANADA CUTS CRUDE PRICES 64 CANADIAN CTS/BBL, PAR GRADE TO 22.26 CANAD Brazil's 14-bank advisory committeeexpressed "grave concern" to chief debt negotiator AntonioPadua de Seixas over the country's suspension of interestpayments, according to a telex from committee chairman Citibankto creditor banks worldwide.    Bankers said the diplomatic phrase belied the deep angerand frustration on the committee over Brazil's unilateral movelast Friday and its subsequent freeze on some 15 billion dlrsof short-term trade and interbank lines.    Seixas, director of the Brazilian central bank's foreigndebt department, met the full panel on Tuesday and Wednesday.    Seixas, who met again this morning with senior Citibankexecutive William Rhodes and representatives from committeevice-chairmen Morgan Guaranty Trust Co and Lloyds Bank Plc,told the banks that the government was preparing a telex toexplain and clarify the freeze on short-term credits.    The telex could be sent to creditors as early as today,bankers said.    Despite the rising tempers, bankers said there are no plansfor Brazilian finance minister Dilson Funaro to meet commercialbankers during his trip to Washington on Friday and Saturday.    Funaro will be explaining Brazil's actions to U.S. TreasurySecretary James Baker, Federal Reserve Board chairman PaulVolcker and International Monetary Fund managing directorMichel Camdessus before travelling to Europe at the weekend.    Meanwhile, bankers were to hear in New York this afternoonwhat impact Brazil's hard line would have on Argentina, with aninitial presentation from Argentine Treasury Secretary MarioBrodersohn on his country's request for 2.15 billion dlrs innew loans and a multi-year rescheduling agreement. Argentinahas threatened to follow Brazil in declaring a paymentsmoratorium if the banks do not grant its request. Reuter
TEXACO CANADA <TXC> LOWERS CRUDE POSTINGS Texaco Canada said it lowered thecontract price it will pay for crude oil 64 Canadian cts abarrel, effective today.    The decrease brings the company's posted price for thebenchmark grade, Edmonton/Swann Hills Light Sweet, to 22.26Canadian dlrs a bbl.    Texaco Canada last changed its crude oil postings on Feb19. Reuter
MARATHON PETROLEUM REDUCES CRUDE POSTINGS Marathon Petroleum Co said it reducedthe contract price it will pay for all grades of crude oil onedlr a barrel, effective today.    The decrease brings Marathon's posted price for both WestTexas Intermediate and West Texas Sour to 16.50 dlrs a bbl. TheSouth Louisiana Sweet grade of crude was reduced to 16.85 dlrsa bbl.    The company last changed its crude postings on Jan 12. Reuter
HOUSTON OIL <HO> RESERVES STUDY COMPLETED Houston Oil Trust said that independentpetroleum engineers completed an annual study that estimatesthe trust's future net revenues from total proved reserves at88 mln dlrs and its discounted present value of the reserves at64 mln dlrs.    Based on the estimate, the trust said there may be no moneyavailable for cash distributions to unitholders for theremainder of the year.    It said the estimates reflect a decrease of about 44 pct innet reserve revenues and 39 pct in discounted present valuecompared with the study made in 1985. Reuter
KUWAIT SAYS NO PLANS FOR EMERGENCY OPEC TALKS Kuwait"s Oil Minister, in remarkspublished today, said there were no plans for an emergency OPECmeeting to review oil policies after recent weakness in worldoil prices.    Sheikh Ali al-Khalifa al-Sabah was quoted by the localdaily al-Qabas as saying: "None of the OPEC members has askedfor such a meeting."    He denied Kuwait was pumping above its quota of 948,000barrels of crude daily (bpd) set under self-imposed productionlimits of the 13-nation organisation.    Traders and analysts in international oil markets estimateOPEC is producing up to one mln bpd above a ceiling of 15.8 mlnbpd agreed in Geneva last December.    They named Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, along withthe much smaller producer Ecuador, among those producing abovequota. Kuwait, they said, was pumping 1.2 mln bpd.    "This rumour is baseless. It is based on reports which saidKuwait has the ability to exceed its share. They suppose thatbecause Kuwait has the ability, it will do so," the ministersaid.    Sheikh Ali has said before that Kuwait had the ability toproduce up to 4.0 mln bpd.    "If we can sell more than our quota at official prices,while some countries are suffering difficulties marketing theirshare, it means we in Kuwait are unusually clever," he said.    He was referring apparently to the Gulf state of qatar,which industry sources said was selling less than 180,000 bpdof its 285,000 bpd quota, because buyers were resistingofficial prices restored by OPEC last month pegged to a markerof 18 dlrs per barrel.    Prices in New York last week dropped to their lowest levelsthis year and almost three dollars below a three-month high of19 dollars a barrel.    Sheikh Ali also delivered "a challenge to any internationaloil company that declared Kuwait sold below official prices."    Because it was charging its official price, of 16.67 dlrs abarrel, it had lost custom, he said but did not elaborate.    However, Kuwait had guaranteed markets for its oil becauseof its local and international refining facilities and its owndistribution network abroad, he added.    He reaffirmed that the planned meeting March 7 of OPEC"sdifferentials committee has been postponed until the start ofApril at the request of certain of the body"s members.    Ecuador"s deputy energy minister Fernando Santos Alvite saidlast Wednesday his debt-burdened country wanted OPEC to assigna lower official price for its crude, and was to seek this attalks this month of opec"s pricing committee.    Referring to pressure by oil companies on OPEC members, inapparent reference to difficulties faced by Qatar, he said: "Weexpected such pressure. It will continue through March andApril." But he expected the situation would later improve. REUTER
INDONESIA SEEN AT CROSSROADS OVER ECONOMIC CHANGE Indonesia appears to be nearing apolitical crossroads over measures to deregulate its protectedeconomy, the U.S. Embassy says in a new report.    To counter falling oil revenues, the government haslaunched a series of measures over the past nine months toboost exports outside the oil sector and attract newinvestment.    Indonesia, the only Asian member of OPEC and a leadingprimary commodity producer, has been severely hit by last year"sfall in world oil prices, which forced it to devalue itscurrency by 31 pct in September.    But the U.S. Embassy report says President Suharto"sgovernment appears to be divided over what direction to leadthe economy.    "(It) appears to be nearing a crossroads with regard toderegulation, both as it pertains to investments and imports,"the report says. It primarily assesses Indonesia"s agriculturalsector, but also reviews the country"s general economicperformance.    It says that while many government officials and advisersare recommending further relaxation, "there are equally strongpressures being exerted to halt all such moves."    "This group strongly favours an import substitution economy,"the report says.    Indonesia"s economic changes have been welcomed by the WorldBank and international bankers as steps in the right direction,though they say crucial areas of the economy like plastics andsteel remain highly protected, and virtual monopolies.    Three sets of measures have been announced since last May,which broadened areas for foreign investment, reduced traderestrictions and liberalised imports.    The report says Indonesia"s economic growth in calendar 1986was probably about zero, and the economy may even havecontracted a bit. "This is the lowest rate of growth since themid-1960s," the report notes.    Indonesia, the largest country in South-East Asia with apopulation of 168 million, is facing general elections inApril.    But the report hold out little hope for swift improvementin the economic outlook. "For 1987 early indications point to aslightly positive growth rate not exceeding one pct. Economicactivity continues to suffer due to the sharp fall in exportearnings from the petroleum industry."    "Growth in the non-oil sector is low because of weakdomestic demand coupled with excessive plant capacity, realdeclines in construction and trade, and a reduced level ofgrowth in agriculture," the report states.    Bankers say continuation of present economic reforms iscrucial for the government to get the international lending itsneeds.    A new World Bank loan of 300 mln dlrs last month in balanceof payments support was given partly to help the governmentmaintain the momentum of reform, the Bank said. REUTER
SAUDI RIYAL DEPOSIT RATES REMAIN FIRM Saudi riyal interbank deposits weresteady at yesterday's higher levels in a quiet market.    Traders said they were reluctant to take out new positionsamidst uncertainty over whether OPEC will succeed in haltingthe current decline in oil prices.    Oil industry sources said yesterday several Gulf Arabproducers had had difficulty selling oil at official OPECprices but Kuwait has said there are no plans for an emergencymeeting of the 13-member organisation.    A traditional Sunday lull in trading due to the Europeanweekend also contributed to the lack of market activity.    Spot-next and one-week rates were put at 6-1/4, 5-3/4 pctafter quotes ranging between seven, six yesterday.    One, three, and six-month deposits were quoted unchanged at6-5/8, 3/8, 7-1/8, 6-7/8 and 7-3/8, 1/8 pct respectively.    The spot riyal was quietly firmer at 3.7495/98 to thedollar after quotes of 3.7500/03 yesterday. REUTER
QATAR UNVEILS BUDGET FOR FISCAL 1987/88 The Gulf oil state of Qatar, recoveringslightly from last year's decline in world oil prices,announced its first budget since early 1985 and projected adeficit of 5.472 billion riyals.    The deficit compared with a shortfall of 7.3 billion riyalsin the last published budget for 1985/86.    In a statement outlining the budget for the fiscal year1987/88 beginning today, Finance and Petroleum Minister SheikhAbdul-Aziz bin Khalifa al-Thani said the government expected tospend 12.217 billion riyals in the period.    Projected expenditure in the 1985/86 budget had been 15.6billion riyals.    Sheikh Abdul-Aziz said government revenue would be about6.745 billion riyals, down by about 30 pct on the 1985/86projected revenue of 9.7 billion.    The government failed to publish a 1986/87 budget due touncertainty surrounding oil revenues.    Sheikh Abdul-Aziz said that during that year the governmentdecided to limit recurrent expenditure each month toone-twelfth of the previous fiscal year's allocations minus 15pct.    He urged heads of government departments and publicinstitutions to help the government rationalise expenditure. Hedid not say how the 1987/88 budget shortfall would be covered.    Sheikh Abdul-Aziz said plans to limit expenditure in1986/87 had been taken in order to relieve the burden placed onthe country's foreign reserves.    He added in 1987/88 some 2.766 billion riyals had beenallocated for major projects including housing and publicbuildings, social services, health, education, transport andcommunications, electricity and water, industry andagriculture.    No figure was revealed for expenditure on defence andsecurity. There was also no projection for oil revenue.    Qatar, an OPEC member, has an output ceiling of 285,000barrels per day.    Sheikh Abdul-Aziz said: "Our expectations of positive signsregarding (oil) price trends, foremost among them OPEC'sdetermination to shoulder its responsibilites and protect itswealth, have helped us make reasonable estimates for the comingyear's revenue on the basis of our assigned quota." REUTER
SAUDI ARABIA REITERATES COMMITMENT TO OPEC PACT Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Hisham Nazerreiterated the kingdom's commitment to last December's OPECaccord to boost world oil prices and stabilise the market, theofficial Saudi Press Agency SPA said.    Asked by the agency about the recent fall in free marketoil prices, Nazer said Saudi Arabia "is fully adhering by the... Accord and it will never sell its oil at prices below thepronounced prices under any circumstance."    Nazer, quoted by SPA, said recent pressure on free marketprices "may be because of the end of the (northern hemisphere)winter season and the glut in the market."    Saudi Arabia was a main architect of the December accord,under which OPEC agreed to lower its total output ceiling by7.25 pct to 15.8 mln barrels per day (bpd) and return to fixedprices of around 18 dlrs a barrel.    The agreement followed a year of turmoil on oil markets,which saw prices slump briefly to under 10 dlrs a barrel inmid-1986 from about 30 dlrs in late 1985. Free market pricesare currently just over 16 dlrs.    Nazer was quoted by the SPA as saying Saudi Arabia'sadherence to the accord was shown clearly in the oil market.    He said contacts among members of OPEC showed they allwanted to stick to the accord.    In Jamaica, OPEC President Rilwanu Lukman, who is alsoNigerian Oil Minister, said the group planned to stick with thepricing agreement.    "We are aware of the negative forces trying to manipulatethe operations of the market, but we are satisfied that thefundamentals exist for stable market conditions," he said.    Kuwait's Oil Minister, Sheikh Ali al-Khalifa al-Sabah, saidin remarks published in the emirate's daily Al-Qabas there wereno plans for an emergency OPEC meeting to review prices.    Traders and analysts in international oil markets estimateOPEC is producing up to one mln bpd above the 15.8 mln ceiling.    They named Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, along withthe much smaller producer Ecuador, among those producing abovequota. Sheikh Ali denied that Kuwait was over-producing. REUTER
SAUDI FEBRUARY CRUDE OUTPUT PUT AT 3.5 MLN BPD Saudi crude oil output last month fellto an average of 3.5 mln barrels per day (bpd) from 3.8 mln bpdin January, Gulf oil sources said.    They said exports from the Ras Tanurah and Ju'aymahterminals in the Gulf fell to an average 1.9 mln bpd last monthfrom 2.2 mln in January because of lower liftings by somecustomers.    But the drop was much smaller than expected after Gulfexports rallied in the fourth week of February to 2.5 mln bpdfrom 1.2 mln in the third week, the sources said.    The production figures include neutral zone output but notsales from floating storage, which are generally consideredpart of a country's output for Opec purposes.    Saudi Arabia has an Opec quota of 4.133 mln bpd under aproduction restraint scheme approved by the 13-nation grouplast December to back new official oil prices averaging 18 dlrsa barrel.    The sources said the two-fold jump in exports last weekappeared to be the result of buyers rushing to lift Februaryentitlements before the month-end.    Last week's high export levels appeared to show continuedsupport for official Opec prices from Saudi Arabia's main crudecustomers, the four ex-partners of Aramco, the sources said.    The four -- Exxon Corp <XON>, Mobil Corp <MOB>, Texaco Inc<TX> and Chevron Corp <CHV> -- signed a long-term agreementlast month to buy Saudi crude for 17.52 dlrs a barrel.    However the sources said the real test of Saudi Arabia'sability to sell crude at official prices in a weak market willcome this month, when demand for petroleum productstraditionally tapers off. Spot prices have fallen in recentweeks to more than one dlr below Opec levels.    Saudi Arabian oil minister Hisham Nazer yesterdayreiterated the kingdom's commitment to the December OPEC accordand said it would never sell below official prices.    The sources said total Saudi refinery throughput fellslightly in February to an average 1.1 mln bpd from 1.2 mln inJanuary because of cuts at the Yanbu and Jubail exportrefineries.    They put crude oil exports through Yanbu at 100,000 bpdlast month, compared to zero in January, while throughput atBahrain's refinery and neutral zone production remained steadyat around 200,000 bpd each. REUTER
GULF ARAB DEPUTY OIL MINISTERS TO MEET IN BAHRAIN Deputy oil ministers from six GulfArab states will meet in Bahrain today to discuss coordinationof crude oil marketing, the official Emirates news agency WAMreported.    WAM said the officials would be discussing implementationof last Sunday's agreement in Doha by Gulf Cooperation Council(GCC) oil ministers to help each other market their crude oil.    Four of the GCC states - Saudi Arabia, the United ArabEmirates (UAE), Kuwait and Qatar - are members of theOrganiaation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and someface stiff buyer resistance to official OPEC prices. Reuter
SAUDI ARABIA REITERATES COMMITMENT TO OPEC ACCORD Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Hisham Nazerreiterated the kingdom's commitment to last December's OPECaccord to boost world oil prices and stabilize the market, theofficial Saudi Press Agency SPA said.    Asked by the agency about the recent fall in free marketoil prices, Nazer said Saudi Arabia "is fully adhering by the... accord and it will never sell its oil at prices below thepronounced prices under any circumstance."    Saudi Arabia was a main architect of December pact underwhich OPEC agreed to cut its total oil output ceiling by 7.25pct and return to fixed prices of around 18 dollars a barrel. Reuter
KUWAIT MINISTER SAYS NO EMERGENCY OPEC TALKS SET Kuwait's oil minister said in a newspaperinterview that there were no plans for an emergency OPECmeeting after the recent weakness in world oil prices.    Sheikh Ali al-Khalifa al-Sabah was quoted by the localdaily al-Qabas as saying that "none of the OPEC members hasasked for such a meeting."    He also denied that Kuwait was pumping above its OPEC quotaof 948,000 barrels of crude daily (bpd).    Crude oil prices fell sharply last week as internationaloil traders and analysts estimated the 13-nation OPEC waspumping up to one million bpd over its self-imposed limits. Reuter
PHILADELPHIA PORT CLOSED BY TANKER CRASH The port of Philadelphia was closedwhen a Cypriot oil tanker, Seapride II, ran aground afterhitting a 200-foot tower supporting power lines across theriver, a Coast Guard spokesman said.    He said there was no oil spill but the ship is lodged onrocks opposite the Hope Creek nuclear power plant in NewJersey.    He said the port would be closed until today when theyhoped to refloat the ship on the high tide.    After delivering oil to a refinery in Paulsboro, NewJersey, the ship apparently lost its steering and hit the powertransmission line carrying power from the nuclear plant to thestate of Delaware. Reuter
SHELL CANADA CUTS CRUDE OIL PRICES BY UP TO 1.27 CANADIAN DLRS/BBL EFFECTIVE M The Bank of Enlgand said it was creatingand taking onto its own books a one stg tranche of the nine pctExchequer stock due 2002.    The issue is part paid with 20 stg pct payable on issue andthe 76 stg pct balance due on April 27. First dealings willtake place this Wednesday, March 4.    The initial reaction among dealers was to mark pricesaround 1/8 point easier. The market had been untapped prior tothis announcement. REUTER
STUDY GROUP URGES INCREASED U.S. OIL RESERVES A study group said the United Statesshould increase its strategic petroleum reserve to one mlnbarrels as one way to deal with the present and future impactof low oil prices on the domestic oil industry.    U.S. policy now is to raise the strategic reserve to 750mln barrels, from its present 500 mln, to help protect theeconomy from an overseas embargo or a sharp price rise.    The Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies, a privategroup, also called for new research for oil exploration anddevelopment techniques.    It predicted prices would remain at about 15-18 dlrs abarrel for several years and then rise to the mid 20s, withimports at about 30 pct of U.S. consumption.    It said instead that such moves as increasing oil reservesand more exploration and development research would help toguard against or mitigate the risks of increased imports. Reuter
STUDY GROUP URGES INCREASED U.S. OIL RESERVES A study group said the United Statesshould increase its strategic petroleum reserve to one mlnbarrels as one way to deal with the present and future impactof low oil prices on the domestic oil industry.    U.S. policy now is to raise the strategic reserve to 750mln barrels, from its present 500 mln, to help protect theeconomy from an overseas embargo or a sharp price rise.    The Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies, a privategroup, also called for new research for oil exploration anddevelopment techniques.    It predicted prices would remain at about 15-18 dlrs abarrel for several years and then rise to the mid 20s, withimports at about 30 pct of U.S. consumption.    The study cited two basic policy paths for the nation: toprotect the U.S. industry through an import fee or other suchdevice or to accept the full economic benefits of cheap oil.    But the group did not strongly back either option, sayingthere were benefits and drawbacks to both.    It said instead that such moves as increasing oil reservesand more exploration and development research would help toguard against or mitigate the risks of increased imports. Reuter
PETRO-CANADA CUT CRUDE PRICES BY 1.43 CANADIAN DLRS/BBL EFFECTIVE M Mthly div 7.7 cts vs 7.7 cts prior    Pay March 13    Record March Two Reuter
UNOCAL <UCL> UNIT CUTS CRUDE OIL POSTED PRICES Unocal Corp's Union Oil Co said itlowered its posted prices for crude oil one to 1.50 dlrs abarrel in the eastern region of the U.S., effective Feb 26.    Union said a 1.50 dlrs cut brings its posted price for theU.S. benchmark grade, West Texas Intermediate, to 16 dlrs.Louisiana Sweet also was lowered 1.50 dlrs to 16.35 dlrs, thecompany said.    No changes were made in Union's posted prices for WestCoast grades of crude oil, the company said. Reuter
NYMEX WILL EXPAND OFF-HOUR TRADING APRIL ONE The New York Mercantile Exchange setApril one for the debut of a new procedure in the energycomplex that will increase the use of energy futures worldwide.     On April one, NYMEX will allow oil traders that do nothold a futures position to initiate, after the exchange closes,a transaction that can subsequently be hedged in the futuresmarket, according to an exchange spokeswoman.    "This will change the way oil is transacted in the realworld," said said Thomas McKiernan, McKiernan and Co chairman.    Foreign traders will be able to hedge trades against NYMEXprices before the exchange opens and negotiate prices at adifferential to NYMEX prices, McKiernan explained.     The expanded program "will serve the industry because theoil market does not close when NYMEX does," said Frank Capozza,secretary of Century Resources Inc.     The rule change, which has already taken effect forplatinum futures on NYMEX, is expected to increase the openinterest and liquidity in U.S. energy futures, according totraders and analysts.    Currently, at least one trader in this transaction, calledan exchange for physical or EFP, must hold a futures positionbefore entering into the transaction.    Under the new arrangement, neither party has to hold afutures position before entering into an EFP and one or bothparties can offset their cash transaction with a futurescontract the next day, according to exchange officials.    When NYMEX announced its proposed rule change in December,NYMEX President Rosemary McFadden, said, "Expansion of the EFPprovision will add to globalization of the energy markets byproviding for, in effect, 24-hour trading."    The Commodity Futures Trading Commission approved the rulechange in February, according to a CFTC spokeswoman. Reuter
ARGENTINE OIL PRODUCTION DOWN IN JANUARY 1987 Argentine crude oil production wasdown 10.8 pct in January 1987 to 12.32 mln barrels, from 13.81mln barrels in January 1986, Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscalessaid.    January 1987 natural gas output totalled 1.15 billion cubicmetrers, 3.6 pct higher than 1.11 billion cubic metres producedin January 1986, Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales added. Reuter
GREECE SAYS IT HAS RIGHT ON AEGEAN OIL DRILLING Greece, responding to a warning by Turkeyagainst conducting oil activities in the Aegean Sea, said todayit had the right to decide where and how to do research ordrilling work in the area.    A government spokesman said the Greek position was madeclear to Turkey's ambassador Nazmi Akiman when he met GreekForeign Affairs Undersecretary Yannis Kapsis last week.    Acting Turkish Prime Minister Kaya Erdem said earlier todayGreek activities in the northern Aegean contravened the 1976Berne Agreement which set the framework for talks on the Aegeancontinental shelf disputed between Ankara and Athens.    The Greek statement today said, "Greece is not prepared togive up even a trace of its sovereignty rights to the seabed.It has been stressed to...Mr Akiman that the decision where orhow to drill belongs exclusively to the Greek government."    "The Greek government has repeatedly let the Turkish sideknow that it considers the 1976 Berne protocol as inactivethrough the fault of Turkey," it said.    The Greek statement said Athens was ready to put thecontinental shelf issue before international courts. Reuter
OPEC WITHIN OUTPUT CEILING, SUBROTO SAYS Opec remains within its agreed outputceiling of 15.8 mln barrels a day, and had expected currentfluctuations in the spot market of one or two dlrs, IndonesianEnergy Minister Subroto said.    He told reporters after meeting with President Suharto thatpresent weakness in the spot oil market was the result ofwarmer weather in the U.S. And Europe which reduced demand foroil.    Prices had also been forced down because refineries wereusing up old stock, he said.    He denied that Opec was exceeding its agreed productionceiling. Asked what Opec's output level was now, he replied:"Below 15.8 (mln barrels per day)." He did not elaborate.    He said there appeared to have been some attempts tomanipulate the market, but if all Opec members stick by thecartel's December pricing agreement it would get throughpresent price difficulties.    He predicted that prices would recover again in the thirdand fourth quarters of 1987.    He also reiterated that there was no need for an emergencyOpec meeting.    He said Opec had expected to see some fluctuations in thespot price. "We hope the weak price will be overcome, andpredict the price will be better in the third and fourthquarters."    Refiners, he said, appeared to have used up old stockdeliberately to cause slack demand in the market and the priceto fall. But Opec would get through this period if membersstuck together. REUTER
PEMEX SIGNS 500 MLN DLR JAPAN LOAN FOR PIPELINE Mexican state oil firm Petroleos Mexicanos(Pemex) signed for a 500 mln dlruntied loan from theExport-Import Bank of Japan to finance its Pacific PetroleumProject, Pemex Japan representative Tito Ayal said.    No further details on the loan were immediately available.    Ayala told an oil seminar the project, due for completionin 1988, is aimed at improving distribution of oil products inthe domestic market, mainly along the Pacific coast.    The project consists of a pipeline linking Nueva Teapa onthe Gulf of Mexico with Salina Cruz on the Pacific Coast, andconstruction of the second phase of the Salina Cruz refinery.    The project also includes construction of liquifiedpetroleum gas (LPG) storage tanks at Santa Cruz, additionalcrude oil storage at both ends of the pipeline, an ammoniacomplex at Lazaro Cardenas on the Pacific Coast and expansionof the infrastructure of the port of Salina Cruz, Ayala said.    Pemex will buy 80 mln dlrs worth of foreign equipment andmaterials for the project, he said. The new pipeline willenable Japan to load Mexico's Maya crude oil at Salina Cruzrather than in the Gulf of Mexico. Pemex will also have someLPG surplus available in Salina Cruz that may help Japandiversify its supply sources of that product, he added. REUTER
MOBIL PLAN TO OPEN PEKING OFFICE, CHINA DAILY SAYS Mobil Corp <MOB.N> of the U.S. Plans toopen an office in Peking to develop oil explorationopportunities in China, the China Daily said.    It quoted Mobil president Richard Tucker, currently inPeking, as saying he is optimistic about investment prospectsin China and that Peking will continue to encourage foreignprivate businesses to invest here.    It said Mobil bought 73 mln dlrs of crude oil and oilproducts from China in 1986 and sold it lubricant andfertiliser, but gave no more details. REUTER
MOBIL PLANS TO OPEN OFFICE IN PEKING Mobil Oil Corp of U.S. Plans to open anoffice in Peking to develop oil exploration opportunities inChina, the China Daily said.     It quoted Mobil president Richard Tucker, currently inPeking, as saying he is optimistic about investment prospectsin China and that Peking will continue to encourage foreignprivate businesses to invest here.     It said Mobil bought 73 mln dlrs of crude oil and oilproducts from China in 1986 and sold it lubricant andfertiliser, but gave no more details. Reuter
OPEC WITHIN OUTPUT CEILING, SUBROTO SAYS Opec remains within its agreed outputceiling of 15.8 mln barrels a day, and had expected currentfluctuations in the spot market of one or two dlrs, IndonesianEnergy Minister Subroto said.    He told reporters after meeting with President Suharto thatpresent weakness in the spot oil market was the result ofwarmer weather in the U.S. And Europe which reduced demand foroil.    Prices had also been forced down because refineries wereusing up old stock, he said.    He denied that Opec was exceeding its agreed productionceiling. Asked what Opec's output level was now, he replied:"Below 15.8 (mln barrels per day)." He did not elaborate.    He said there appeared to have been some attempts tomanipulate the market, but if all Opec members stick by thecartel's December pricing agreement it would get throughpresent price difficulties.    He predicted that prices would recover again in the thirdand fourth quarters of 1987.    He also reiterated that there was no need for an emergencyOpec meeting.    He said Opec had expected to see some fluctuations in thespot price. "We hope the weak price will be overcome, andpredict the price will be better in the third and fourthquarters."    Refiners, he said, appeared to have used up old stockdeliberately to cause slack demand in the market and the priceto fall. But Opec would get through this period if membersstuck together. REUTER
BP OIL RAISES OPERATING PROFIT <BP Oil Ltd>, the U.K. Marketing andrefining arm of British Petroleum Co Plc <BP.L>, raised itspretax operating profit on a replacement cost basis to 182 mlnstg in calendar 1986, compared with 66 mln stg in 1985.    Sales and operating revenue fell to 3.1 billion stg from4.2 billion on a replacement cost basis. Historical costoperating profit was 61 mln stg, up from 16 mln.    BP Oil said 1985 profits had been depressed by exceptionalitems. Its profit figures were stated before interest charges.    Chief executive David Kendall said improved resultsmirrored benefits of a restructuring program undertaken inrecent years.    However, he warned future financial pressure on theindustry will be severe.    "The U.K. Oil marketing and refining industry will need toinvest larger sums - probably around 500 mln stg a year - for agood many years," he said in a statement. Reuter
KENYAN ECONOMY FACES PROBLEMS, PRESIDENT SAYS The Kenyan economy is heading fordifficult times after a boom last year, and the country musttighten its belt to prevent the balance of payments swingingtoo far into deficit, President Daniel Arap Moi said.    In a speech at the state opening of parliament, Moi saidhigh coffee prices and cheap oil in 1986 led to economic growthof five pct, compared with 4.1 pct in 1985.    The same factors produced a two billion shilling balance ofpayments surplus and inflation fell to 5.6 pct from 10.7 pct in1985, he added.    "But both these factors are no longer in our favour ... As aresult, we cannot expect an increase in foreign exchangereserves during the year," he said.    The price of coffee, Kenya's main source of foreignexchange, fell in London today to about 94 cents a pound from apeak of 2.14 dlrs in January 1986.    Crude oil, which early last year slipped below 10 dlrs abarrel, has since crept back to over 18 dlrs.    Moi said the price changes, coupled with a general declinein the flow of capital from the rest of the world, made it moredifficult to finance the government's budget deficit.    Kenya was already spending over 27 pct of its budget onservicing its debts and last year it was a net exporter ofcapital for the first time in its history, he added.    "This is a clear indication that we are entering a difficultphase as regards our external debts, and it is imperative thatwe raise the rate of domestic savings and rely less on foreignsources to finance our development," he said.    "It will be necessary to maintain strict discipline onexpenditure ... And members of this house will have to take thelead in encouraging wananchi (ordinary people) to be morefrugal in satisfying immediate needs," the president added. REUTER
OIL PRICES RISE ON SAUDI EFFORT Crude oil prices rallied today, movingover 17.00 dlrs a barrel because of Saudi Arabia's determinedeffort to support prices, analysts said.    "The Saudis and other OPEC nations are jawboning the market,hoping to restore confidence and prices and to do this withoutanother meeting," said Sanford Margoshes, oil analyst withShearson Lehman Brothers Inc.    "But OPEC is not out of the woods yet by a longshot due toseasonal declines in demand and some cheating," he added.    Oil industry analysts said Saudi Arabia has led the attemptto get other OPEC members to resist pressures to discount fromthe official prices agreed to last december.    The analysts said that to get others to hold the line,Saudi Arabia pushed hard at the meeting of deputy oil ministersof the Gulf Cooperation Council last weekend and at theCooperation Council oil ministers' meeting the previous week.    The Saudis have also offered to support members havingdifficulty in selling their oil, analysts said.    "They are trying to make sure that no one discounts, and toprevent that, it appears that Saudi Arabia or some other OPECmember will allocate some of their oil sales to help membersthat lose sales," Margoshes said.    He added that the allocations would probably be in the formof loans to be repaid when these nations resume sales.    Analysts said this would be useful in keeping in linenations like Qatar, which has had trouble selling oil. But itis also likely that such assistance would be provided toNigeria which is under pressure to extend discounts.    Analysts said that Saudi Arabia, with assistance from OPECpresident Rilwanu Lukman, was trying to avoid an emergency OPECmeeting for fear that it would give the appearance that theDecember pact is falling apart.    Daniel McKinley, oil analyst with Smith Barney, UphamHarris and Co said, "both physical and futures markets have beenoversold and it only took a small spark to bring on a shortcovering rally."    He believes an Iranian trade mission to Tokyo, whichrefused discounts to Japanese buyers, brought Japanese refinersinto the market to cover their short positions.    Oil traders said one japanese refiner came into the marketto but 10 cargoes of May Dubai, which sent prices up on Mideastsours, with Dubai trading up to 16.50 dlrs after tradingyeterray as low as 15.63 dlrs and then spilled over into theNorth sea crude oil market.    Traders said that there have been persistent rumors todaythat Japanese buyers are looking to pick up cargoes of Brentfor Japan and European trade sources indidate rumors of vesselsbeing fixed to make such shipments.    North sea brent today rose over 17.00 dlrs with tradesreported as high as 17.05 dlrs, up one dlr.    OPEC members' denials that they are producing over theirquotas sparked moves to cover short postitions.    Indonesian oil minister Subroto said today that OPECproduction was below the 15.8 mln bpd quota agreed to lastdecember but he gave no details on OPEC production againstclaims it was more at least one mln bpd above that level.    "The production probably is about their quota level andlargely because Saudi Arabia will not discount and canot sellits oil as a result," Margoshes said.    Analysts have mixed opinions about the extent of thecurrent rally. Some believe prices can continue to rise ifSaudi Arabia and OPEC hold steady in a refusal to discount.    But others said that despite the rally today there werestill several fundamental factors, including demand, whichcould cut the rally short.    Marion Stewart, an indepedent petroleum economist, saidslow growth in the economies of the U.S. and OECD would keepdemand for oil slack and he now estimates that demand to riseabout 1.4 pct over 1986. Reuter
PANCANADIAN TO SELL NORTH SEA PROPERTIES, UNIT TO WHITEHALL  U.S. power companies generated a net50.08 billion kilowatt-hours of electrical energy in the weekended Feb 28, up 2.4 pct from 48.91 billion a year earlier, theEdison Electric Institute (EEI) said.    In its weekly report on electric output, the electricutility trade association said electric output in the weekended Feb 21 was 51.10 billion kilowatt-hours.    The EEI said power production in the 52 weeks ended Feb 28was 2,554.41 billion kilowatt hours, up 2.2 pct from theyear-ago period.    Electric output so far this year was 458.51 billionkilowatt hours, up 2.2 pct from 448.79 billion last year, theEEI said. Reuter
API SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS OFF 4.4 MLN BBLS, GASOLINE OFF 30,000, CRUDE UP Alcan Aluminium Ltd is closing itsaluminum smelter in Ludwigshafen, West Germany this June due tohigh operating costs, an Alcan spokesman said.    The smelter, near Frankfurt, had annual capacity of about44,000 tonnes but was operating at about half that in January,spokesman Fernand Leclerc said.    Leclerc said Alcan decided it would cost too much tomodernize the plant.    He said there is a possibility the company will sell thesmelter, which currently employs 320 people, before itsscheduled closing. Reuter
PANCANADIAN TO SELL BRITISH INTERESTS <PanCanadian Petroleum Ltd>said it agreed to sell its working interest in its North Seaproperties and its British unit, Canadian Pacific Oil and Gasof Canada Ltd, to Whitehall Petroleum Ltd, a private Britishcompany.    PanCanadian, 87 pct-owned by Canadian Pacific Ltd <CP>,said it would receive 1.7 mln British pounds cash (3.5 mlnCanadian dlrs) at closing, expected in two to three months.    It said the deal is subject to approval by regulators andits partners in the properties, which consist of explorationwells. It will also retain a royalty interest in theproperties. Reuter
API SAYS DISTILLATE, GAS STOCKS OFF IN WEEK Distillate fuel stocks held inprimary storage fell by 4.4 mln barrels in the week ended Feb27 to 127.10 mln barrels from 131.50 mln the previous week, theAmerican Petroleum Institute (API) said.    In its weekly statistical bulletin, the oil industry tradegroup said gasoline stocks fell 30,000 barrels to 252.92 mlnbarrels from a revised 252.95 mln, while crude oil stocks rose700,000 barrels to 329.38 mln from a revised 328.68 mln.    It said residual fuel stocks fell 380,000 barrels to 38.04mln from 38.42 mln barrels.    API said refinery runs in the week fell to 12.17 mlnbarrels per day from a revised 12.42 mln and refinery use ofoperating capacity was 78.1 pct, off from a revised 79.7 pct.    Crude oil imports in the week fell to 3.98 mln bpd from arevised 4.22 mln, API added. Reuter
SAUDI SUCCESS SEEN IN CURBING OPEC PRODUCTION Saudi Arabia will succeed in pressuringother members of the Organization of Petroleum ExportingCountries to stay within their production quotas, said MorganStanley Group managing director John Wellemeyer.    Wellemeyer, speaking to reporters at an offshore oilengineering conference, also said he expected OPEC nations toattempt to hold prices under 20 dlrs a barrel for several yearsto keep industrial demand for residual fuel oil strong.    "Over the next few weeks I think you'll see a concertedeffort by the Saudis to get production down," Wellemeyer said.    "The Saudis are committed to that price level (of 18 dlrs abarrel) and are willing to make it happen again," he said.    In recent weeks, oil prices fell to the 16 to 17 dlrs abarrel level on market reports of some OPE members producingabove their quota, pushing total OPEC production to 15.8 mlnbarrels per day. But prices rebounded today, with April U.S.crude prices up about one dlr to over 17 dlrs a barrel on abelief Saudi Arabia is attempting to curb OPEC output.    Wellemeyer said that sharp declines in U.S. oil productioncould push demand for OPEC oil above 20 mln barrels per day asearly as 1989 and up to 24 mln barrels per day by 1993.    Although the projected increases in demand for OPEC oilshould strengthen world prices, Wellemeyer said he believed theorganization would hold its official price below 20 dlrs abarrel for some time to prevent residual fuel users fromswitching to natural gas supplies. The interfuel swing marketaccounts for about eight mln barrels a day, or 18 pct of theworld demand for oil. Reuter
SUN RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS ONE DLR ACROSS BOARD. WTI NOW 17.00  <Strong Point Inc> said itsPharmaceutical Technologies Inc subsidiary will market inEurope its Immunol-RD nutritional product, designed to protectindividuals exposed to medium or minimal radiation dosagelevels.    The company said it will market the product in Europebecause of the radiation exposure from the Chernobyl nucelarpower accident.    The company asserted that the product can offset thedeleterious effects of radiation, which weakens the immunesystem. Reuter
JANUARY CRUDE OIL MOVEMENTS FALL SEVEN MLN TONS Worldwide spot crude oil movements fellto 30.07 mln long dwt in February from 37.25 mln tons inJanuary and 41.44 mln in December, London shipbroker HowardHoulder said.    The decline mainly reflected a sharp drop in movements outof the Mideast Gulf, which totalled 7.4 mln tons last monthagainst 11.65 mln in January. These included shipments towestern options at 2.05 mln tons against 3.59 mln previously.    Liftings from the Gulf to eastern options fell to 4.15 mlntons from 5.94 mln and those from the Gulf to other areasdropped to 1.2 mln tons from 2.13 mln, Howard Houlder said.    U.K./Continent coastal movements declined sharply to 2.91mln tons from 4.77 mln but those from the U.K./Continent to theU.S. rose to 1.99 mln from 1.69 mln. Reuter
STERLING IN TEXAS GAS AND OIL DISCOVERY <Sterling Investment Group>said it successfully drilled and completed a significantdevelopment well 65 miles southwest of Houston, Texas.    The well has a choke of 11/64 of an inch and is 10,097 feetdeep.    The well initially tested at a maximum daily flow rate oftwo mln cubic feet of gas and 304 barrels of condensate.    Participants in the new well, along with Sterling, areTrafalgar House Ltd of the U.K. and <Texstar NOrth America Inc.> Reuter
IRANIAN OIL MINISTER DUE IN ALGERIA ON FRIDAY Iranian Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadehis expected here on Friday for talks with his Algeriancounterpart Belkacem Nabi, the official Algerian news agencyAPS said today.    Aqazadeh, who will be accompanied by a large delegation,will have talks on bilateral relations in the field of energyand exchange views with Algerian officials on the current worldenergy situation, it said. Reuter
U.K. OIL INDUSTRY SAID NOT PERMANENTLY DAMAGED The U.K. Offshore oil industry hassuffered from last year's collapse in oil prices but should notsustain any permament damage, Minister of State for EnergyAlick Buchanan-Smith said.    The drilling, diving and supply vessels sectors had beenmost affected, Buchanan Snith told the House of Commons energycommittee. He noted, however, that oil companies were stillspending six mln stg a day to maintain North Sea production.    He added that a report by the manpower services committeewhich said 14,000 jobs were lost in the industry in 1986 shouldbe seen in the context of a total workforce of 300,000.    Prices of North Sea Brent-grade crude dipped to a low of8.50dlrs a barrel last July from a peak of over 30 dlrs theprevious November.    They recovered to around 18 dlrs a barrel after lastDecember's OPEC meeting and Brent traded today around 17.15dlrs.    Buchanan-Smith said the U.K. Has no intention of adoptingOPEC style quotas, noting that Britian is an oil-consuming aswell as an oil-producing nation. Reuter
RESOURCE EXPLORATION <REXI> IN DRILLING PACT Resource Exploration Inc said it hasagreed to let <Langasco Energy Corp> drill 50 oil andnatural gas wells on its Clinton Sandstone formation within itsTuscarawas and Harrison County, Ohio area of operation.    Resource said it would receive a cash payment and anoverriding royalty interest on oil and gas production fromwells drilled on the property.    Resource said gas produced from the property will betransported through its existing pipeline. Also, Resource saidit will provide service work to complete the wells and it willoperate the wells after they are completed. Reuter
MURPHY RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTED PRICES ONE DLR/BBL. WTI TO 17.00 DL The Commonwealth of Australia isoffering in the Yankee bond market 400 mln dlrs of bonds in twotranches, said lead manager Morgan Stanley and Co Inc.    A 250 mln dlr issue of bonds due 1997 was given a 7-5/8 pctcoupon and was priced at 99.25 to yield 7.73 pct, or 60.5 basispoints more than comparable Treasury securities.    A companion 150 mln dlr offering of 30-year bonds was givenan 8-3/8 pct coupon and was priced at 99.875 to yield 8.386pct, or 82.5 basis points over Treasuries.    Both tranches are non-callable for life. Moody's rates thebonds Aa-1 and S and P rates them AA-plus. Reuter
EIA SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS OFF 3.4 MLN BBLS, GASOLINE OFF 100,000, CRUDE UP Chronar Corp said it received atotal of 20 mln dlrs through the completion of a privateplacement of its stock, long-term debt and associated warrantswith the Sheet Metal Workers' National Pension Fund and anaffiliate of <Harbert Corp>.    It also said the fund and Harbert Solar Inc, the affiliate,now own about 16 pct of Chronar's common.    Chronar also said it expects to report a loss for the yearof about 4.5 mln dlrs on sales of about 12 mln dlrs comparedwith a loss of 513,153 dlrs on revenues of 10 mln dlrs in 1985. Reuter
SOUTHLAND <SLC> UNIT RAISES CRUDE PRICES Southland Corp's Citgo Petrleum Corpsaid it raised the contract price it will pay for all grades ofcrude oil by one dlr a barrel, effective today.    The increase brings Citgo's posted price for West TexasIntermediate to 17.00 dlrs a bbl. West Texas Sour is also nowpriced at 17.00 dlrs/bbl, and Light Louisiana South is postedat 17.35 dlrs/bbl.    On February 25 Citgo lowered its crude postings 50 cts to1.50 dlrs per bbl, and cut WTI one dlr to 16.00.     Reuter
RECENT U.S. OIL DEMAND UP 2.1 PCT FROM YEAR AGO U.S. oil demand as measured byproducts supplied rose 2.1 pct in the four weeks ended February27 to 16.39 mln barrels per day (bpd) from 16.05 mln in thesame period a year ago, the Energy Information Administration(EIA) said.    In its weekly petroleum status report, the EnergyDepartment agency said distillate demand was down 2.1 pct inthe period to 3.37 mln bpd from 3.44 mln a year earlier.    Gasoline demand averaged 6.60 mln bpd, up 2.4 pct from 6.44mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.47 mln bpd, up1.9 pct from 1.44 mln, the EIA said.    Domestic crude oil production was estimated at 8.38 mlnbpd, down 8.7 pct from 9.18 mln a year ago, and gross dailycrude imports (excluding those for the SPR) averaged 4.11 mlnbpd, up 36.9 pct from three mln, the EIA said.    Refinery crude runs in the four weeks were 12.21 mln bpd,up 2.2 pct from 12 mln a year earlier, it said.    Year-to-date figures will not become available until March26 when EIA's Petroleum Supply Monthly data for January 1987becomes available, the agency said. Reuter
CREDITORS SEEK SWIFT RESCUE PACKAGE FOR JAPAN LINE A group of creditor banks hopes to workout a rescue package for Japan Line Ltd <JLIT.T>, one of theworld's largest tanker operators, by the end of Japan'sbusiness year on March 31, a spokesman for the Industrial Bankof Japan Ltd <IBJT.T> (IBJ) said.    Japan Line's cumulative debt was 68.98 billion yen at theend of September, which exceeded shareholders' equities andreserves totalling 63.40 billion.    In December, Japan Line asked banks to shelve repayment ofabout 124 billion yen in outstanding loans and about 153billion in loans to its subsidiaries.    Japan Line said then that the yen's steep rise and theworld shipping recession had hit the company hard.    The Japanese daily Asahi Shimbun said today that IBJ andthree other banks plan to abandon a total of 16 billion yen inloans to Japan Line and a group of creditor banks plans to buyseven billion yen of new Japan Line shares.    The spokesman for IBJ, Japan Line's largest creditor, saidthe package may write off part of the outstanding loans andwill be worked out before long.    Commenting on the article, he said the details of thepackage have not yet been settled. REUTER
OPEC STICKING FIRM ON OFFICIAL PRICES - SUBROTO OPEC countries are all sticking firmly toofficial crude oil prices but the volatility of spot prices islikely to continue into the third quarter, Indonesian Ministerof Mines and Energy Subroto told Reuters.    Subroto, attending a Pacific Energy Cooperation conference,blamed recent rapid spot price changes on unbalanced supply anddemand. "If we stick to the production limitation, the thirdquarter will be in better balance."    He said the market is in a period of transition while theimpact of OPEC's December agreement to cut output and fixprices at an average 18 dlrs a barrel is worked through.    Asked whether OPEC members of the Gulf Cooperation Council(GCC) had any concrete proposals to help Qatar sell its crudeoil in the face of strong resistance to its official prices,Subroto said: "Apparently they have taken care of that."    "They (the GCC) meet very often among themselves. I thinkthey'll help each other," he said.    Subroto said that as he was not a member of OPEC's PriceDifferentials Committee he did not know why the meeting hadbeen postponed from its scheduled April 2 date.    "Maybe they find it is better not to have the meetingbecause ... Everyone is sticking to official prices," he said. REUTER
PAPUA NEW GUINEA PLANS RESOURCES INVESTMENT AGENCY The Papua New Guinea Governmentwill establish a public corporation to invest in resourcesprojects, Minerals and Energy Minister John Kaputin said.    "We intend to provide a means through which less privilegedindividuals can become part owners and beneficiaries from thedevelopment of mining and petroleum projects," he toldParliament.    Existing policy allowing the state up to 30 pct equity inmajor mining projects and 22.5 pct in oil and gas projectswould be maintained, he said. The planned agency could takeover the state's equity in current developments.    Kaputin said Papua New Guinea was experiencing a boom withexploration companies spending about 60 mln kina annually onabout 150 mining and 23 petroleum projects.    "The Government is determined to ensure that Papua NewGuinean ownership in minerals and petroleum projects increasesin an orderly way," he said.    Kaputin did not say when the corporation would beestablished or exactly what form it would take, but said thegovernment would study whether it should be directly involvedin exploration or development. REUTER
ICE UNCHANGED AT SOVIET OIL PORT OF VENTSPILS Ice conditions are unchanged at theSoviet Baltic oil port of Ventspils, with continuous andcompacted drift ice 15 to 30 cms thick, the latest report ofthe Finnish Board of Navigation said.    Icebreaker assistance to reach Ventspils harbour is neededfor normal steel vessels without special reinforcement againstice, the report said.    It gave no details of ice conditions at the other majorSoviet Baltic export harbour of Klaipeda. Reuter
DIAMOND SHAMROCK RAISES CRUDE POSTED PRICES ONE DLR, EFFECTIVE MARCH 4, WTI NOW 17.00  Shr 19 cts vs 13 cts    Net 2,656,000 vs 1,712,000    Revs 15.4 mln vs 9,443,000    Avg shrs 14.1 mln vs 12.6 mln    Year    Shr 98 cts vs 77 cts    Net 13.8 mln vs 8,928,000    Revs 58.8 mln vs 48.5 mln    Avg shrs 14.0 mln vs 11.6 mln    NOTE: Shr figures adjusted for 3-for-2 split paid Feb 6,1987. Reuter
ORBIT INCREASES OIL AND GAS RESERVE VALUES <Orbit Oil and Gas Ltd> saidthe value of its oil and gas reserves increased by 19 pct to52.6 mln dlrs from 44.2 mln dlrs reported at year-end 1985,according to an independent appraisal.    Orbit said it has reserves of 2.4 mln barrels of oil andnatural gas liquids and 67.2 billion cubic feet of natural gas.    In addition, 75 pct owned <Sienna Resources Ltd> hasCanadian reserves of 173,000 barrels of oil and 1.6 bcf ofnatural gas with a current value of 2.2 mln dlrs, Orbit said. Reuter
DIAMOND SHAMROCK <DIA> RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS Diamond Shamrock said it raised itsposted prices for all grades of crude oil one dlr a barrel,effective yesterday.    The one dlr increase brings West Texas Intermediate, WTIthe U.S. benchmark crude, to 17.00 dlrs a bbl, the companysaid.    Diamond Shamrock joined Sun Co, Coastal, Citgo and MurphyOil in raising crude oil posted prices one dlr a barrelyesterday. Reuter
OPEC SAYS FEBRUARY OUTPUT UNDER CEILING OPEC output in February was "well below"the 15.8 mln bpd ceiling it set in December and all countriesare strictly adhering to their quotas, the OPEC news agencyOpecna quoted an OPEC secretariat official as saying.    The official was quoted as saying that lower output was theresult "of member countries' firm determination to defend theorganisation's official price of 18 dlrs per barrel, and torefrain from selling any quantity below that price."    The unnamed official was further quoted as saying that noOPEC meeting was foreseen before the next biannual OPEC sessionplanned to start on June 25.    The official gave no figure for February output. Thestatement said only that "the reduction in total supplies,namely actual exports of crude oil and products, plus localdeliveries in member countries, is even more pronounced asthose supplies fell very noticeably during that month."    "No matter what the pressure on member countries by liftersto align the official selling price to the ongoing marketprice, member countries are, without exception, strictlyadhering to the official selling price in spite of thefinancial hardship this may entail," the statement said.    "The very recent improvement in the price structure is anindicator of such determination by the organization to stick tothe official selling price," the statement said.    Free spot market prices rose from around 14.50 dlrs abarrel in early December last year to near OPEC's officiallevels towards the end of the year, after the OPEC pact.    There has been oil industry speculation that OPEC mighthave to hold an extraordinrary meeting prior to its scheduledJune session to discuss reports of overproduction by somestates and strains on the differential matrix, which priceseach OPEC crude according to its quality and distance from mainmarkets.    The official said in the statement that no such emergencysession was scheduled "because of member countries' firmdetermination to defend the price (system)" agreed in December.    Opec"s differential committee was to have met in Viennastarting April 2 but this session has been postponed, with nonew date set, according to an official of the United ArabEmirates, which chairs the seven-state body.    Other members are Algeria, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Libya,Nigeria and Qatar. REUTER
MARATHON RAISES CRUDE POSTED PRICES 50 CTS A BBL, EFFECTIVE TODAY, WTI AT 17 D A presidential commission that hasbeen studying oil imports, including their effect on nationalsecurity, is to to make its report soon, the White House said.    Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the panel, set up lastOctober to examine U.S. oil import needs, would make its reportsoon, probably within the next few weeks.    He said National Security Adviser Frank Carlucci "will waituntil that report is in and then see if there is any specialaction needed to be taken in the national security area toimplement it." Reuter
BAD WEATHER CLOSES ALEXANDRIA PORT, OIL TERMINAL Strong winds and high seastoday closed Alexandria, Egypt's biggest port, and an oilpipeline terminal nearby, officials said.    Facilities of the Suez-Mediterranean Arab PetroleumPipelines Company at Sidi Kreir, 32 km southeast of Alexandria,were closed this morning after one tanker loaded and sailed.    Officials said that five other tankers were waiting outsidethe terminal for conditions to improve. Reuter
EGYPTIAN 1986 CRUDE OIL OUTPUT DOWN ON 1985 Non-Opec Egypt produced 40.3 mln tonnes(about 295 mln barrels) of crude in 1986 against 44.3 mlntonnes (about 323 mln barrels) in 1985, according to officialfigures released today by the Egyptian General Petroleum Corp.(EGPC).    Officials say Egypt can produce up to one mln bpd per day,but production was cut when world prices plunged last year.    In an attempt to help OPEC stabilize the world market,Egypt cut its 1987 production target of 940,000 bpd to itscurrent output of 870,000 bpd.    Egypt, which exports a third of its output, currently sellsits top Suez and Ras Bahar blends for 17.25 dlrs a barrel. REUTER
OPEC PRESIDENT SAYS OUTPUT WELL BELOW CEILING Opec Conference President Rilwanu Lukmansaid the group was producing well below the 15.8 mln bpdceiling it set in December, partly because liftings had beendelayed or postponed by customers unwilling to pay fixed Opecprices.    Lukman, during a brief visit to London on his way home fromJamaica, told Reuters in a telephone interview that inFebruary, Opec had underproduced partly because members werestrictly abiding by production quotas and partly because theywere resisting the temptation to sell at discounts to officialprices of around 18 dlrs a barrel.    "We are determined to stand firm by the (December) accord,"he said. "I have spoken to every other Opec minister and theyare committed to making the accord work," he said.    Lukman gave no specific figures for February output. Hesaid the Opec secretariat in Vienna was finalizing thesefigures.    Told of a Reuters survey published today which estimatedthat Opec output so far this week was below 15 mln bpd, hesaid; "That could well be correct."    Opec"s news agency Opecna today issued a statement sayinggroup output was "well below" its ceiling in February. But itgave no figures.    But one source close to Opec indicated that February outputmay have been between 15.3 and 15.5 mln bpd.    The Reuter survey estimated Opec February output at around16 mln bpd.    Opec agreed in December to cut output by 7.25 pct to 15.8mln bpd and to return to fixed prices starting February 1.    Lukman said Qatar, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and Iran had allproduced in February below their Opec quotas. Iraq, which saidit would not honour its 1.466 mln bpd quota under the Decemberpact, had produced less than had been anticipated, he said.    Lukman said that some industry reports "may be correct" thatin February, Nigeria propuced 75-100,000 bpd below its 1.238mln bpd quota, Saudi Arabia 500,000 bpd less than its 4.133 mlnallocation and Qatar 20 to 30 pct under its 285,000 bpd quota.    He said that sweet crudes such as those produced by hiscountry were coming under price pressure because they werecurrently officially priced above sweet North Sea grades andthe United States" West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude.    However, he said Opec in December had anticipated thatdemand would be slack at this time of year for seasonal reasonsand expected the market to firm in two to three weeks.    "We have to be patient for two or three weeks. The market isnow firming on actual fundamentals," he said, adding that heexpected it to go "up and up" even beyond official prices afterearly April. This is when, traditionally, there is more demandfor gasoline-rich crudes such as Nigeria"s.    The Opec President said producers such as Kuwait, Venezuelaand Indonesia were having less problems with output thanproducers like his own country because they exported oilproducts.    Also, some of Venezuela"s heavy grades were outside the Opecpricing system, he said.    Lukman said that if refiner-buyers, now refusing to liftsome Opec oil at official prices, instead used their own stocksand ran them down to "dangerous levels," they would eventuallyhave to buy Opec oil.    "When they realise it is not a free-for-all (in the market)they will realise they should buy now instead of paying morelater on," he said.    Lukman, asked about industry reports that Nigeria was beingpressured by equity producers for better terms, said it wasimportant to know that terms with them were negotiable,flexible and under constant review, not only when the marketseemed weak.    He said that so far, no meeting of the seven-nationministerial differentials committee had been scheduled and thatsuch a meeting, now twice-postponed, was not a high priorityfor Opec at the moment.    "At this time, we have to get our priorities right," he said."The most important thing now is ensuring that the accord isworking, not dealing with a differential of cents betweengrades."    But if any Opec member raised concerns or objections overthe differential system, a meeting would be called, he said. Reuter
CONFIDENCE IN OPEC FIRMS U.S. ENERGY FUTURES Renewed confidence in OPEC's ability tolimit production helped U.S. energy futures settle aboveyesterday's closing prices, according to analysts.    They also said the heating oil contract found additionalsupport from a short-covering rally on the close.    April crude closed 24 cts higher to 17.75 dlrs. Aprilheating oil was 1.47 cts higher to 47.91 cts a gallon.    "Most traders expected follow through profit-taking fromyesterday but the market found suport from bullish reports thatOPEC is producing within its quota," said Simon Greenshields, avice president with Morgan Stanley and Co Inc.    News today, including OPEC President Rilwanu Lukmanstatement that OPEC February production did not exceed itsofficial quota of 15.8 mln barrels per day, helped bouy prices,traders said. A Reuter survey found OPEC production in earlyMarch was 14.7 mln bpd.    In addition to short-covering, heating oil found supportfrom traders buying it against sales of gasoline and crude, aswell as from expectations for continued drawdowns in stocks asrefiners shut down for maintenance, traders said.    Unleaded gasoline for April finished 0.55 cent higher to51.24 cts a gallon. Reuter
FAVORED TRADE STATUS FOR MOSCOW STILL OPPOSED The Reagan administration wants toencourage expanded trade with the Soviet Union but does notbelieve Moscow yet warrants most-favored-nation treatment,Deputy Secretary of State John Whitehead said.    "It seems to me that more trade between us is better thanless trade," he told a forum on U.S.-Soviet trade relations.    To that end, the administration in January allowed foreignpolicy controls on the export of oil and gas equipment to theSoviet Union to lapse, he said.    Also, Washington and its allies are reviewing remainingexport controls in hopes of simplifying the list of prohibiteditems and speeding up the licensing process, he said.    Whitehead said, however, the prefential treatment thatcomes with most-favored-nation status is out for the moment.    U.S. law prohibits most-favored-nation status for countriesthat restrict emigration and other rights.    "What we have seen so far (in improved rights under SovietLeader Mikhail Gorbachev) are promising trends," he said.    But, he added: "We don't know if they will continue, wedon't know how significant they will be." Reuter
SOUTH AFRICAN FIRM TO CONTINUE TESTS South Africa's state-owned energyfirm Soekor said it would continue tests after striking oilsome 120 kms (75 miles) south-southwest of Mossel Bay.    During production tests, about 5,000 barrels of oil andfive mln cubic feet of gas per day were produced, it said.    "This oil discovery will be followed-up as soon as possibleby further seismic surveys and drilling. Should furtherdrilling and tests in the area yield positive results oilproduction from a floating platform could be considered."    Director General of Mineral and Energy Affairs Louw Albertsannounced the strike earlier but said it was uneconomic. Reuter
GREECE REPEATS IT CAN DECIDE ON AEGEAN DRILLING Greece, replying to a warning from Turkeythat it will stop Athens from seeking oil in the Aegean Sea,repeated today that it has an exclusive right to decide whereor when to drill in the area.    A government spokesman said in a statement that if Ankarabelieved Greece was contravening international law, it couldbring the issue before the courts.    The spokesman was responding to a statement by TurkishForeign Ministry spokesman Yalim Eralp that Ankara would takeaction to stop Greece's oil activities beyond its territorialwaters as they were a violation of the 1976 Berne accord. Reuter
IEA SAYS OPEC FEBRUARY CRUDE OUTPUT 16.1 MLN BPD OPEC produced an average 16.1 mln barrelsper day (bpd) of crude oil in February, down from 16.5 mln theprevious month and an overall 17.3 mln bpd in fourth quarter1986, the International Energy Agency said.    A few OPEC countries last month exceeded the productionquotas set at their last conference in December, but liftingswere reduced from several countries, it said in its latestmonthly oil market report.    These cutbacks were due in part to buyer resistance tofixed prices, introduced from February 1, particularly forfixed volumes over an extended period.    It gave this breakdown for OPEC crude output, in mln bpd                    FOURTH QTR 1986  JANUARY 1987  FEBRUARY1987    SAUDI ARABIA    4.9              3.7           3.8    IRAN            1.6              2.2           1.9    IRAQ            1.6              1.6           1.7    UAE             1.3              1.2           1.2    KUWAIT          1.0              1.0           1.0    NEUTRAL ZONE    0.5              0.4           0.4    QATAR           0.3              0.3           0.2    NIGERIA         1.3              1.2           1.2    LIBYA           1.0              1.0           1.0                    FOURTH QTR 1986  JANUARY 1987  FEBRUARY1987    ALGERIA         0.6              0.6           0.6    GABON           0.1              0.2           0.2    VENEZUELA       1.6              1.6           1.6    ECUADOR         0.2              0.2           0.2    INDONESIA       1.3              1.2           1.2    TOTAL           17.3             16.5          16.1    The IEA said while Saudi production stayed below its quotaof 4.133 mln bpd, actual sales might exceed output due toNorbec stock disposals. Contracts for Saudi crude have beensigned, but it is understood they have much leeway in requiredliftings.    The report said the reduction in Iraqi air attacks onIranian export facilities allowed Iran's output to reach 2.2mln bpd in January, but buyer resistance to fixed pricesapparently cut February production.    It said Iraqi exports are about 1.0 mln bpd through theTurkish pipeline, 0.1-0.2 mln by truck through Jordan and0.2-0.3 mln via the Saudi pipeline to Yanbu. Internalconsumption is some 0.3 mln bpd.    The IEA estimated total non-communist world oil supply inFebruary at 45.0 mln bpd, down from 45.4 mln in January and47.0 mln in the fourth quarter.    The February world supply figure is made up of 16.1 mln bpdOPEC crude production, 1.4 mln bpd OPEC natural gas liquids(ngls), 16.6 mln bpd OECD crude and ngls, 8.3 mln bpd otherdeveloping countries' crude and ngls, net trade of 1.1 mln bpdwith centrally planned economies, 0.5 mln bpd ofnon-conventional crudes (such as tar sands and oil from coal)and 1.0 mln bpd from processiing gains.    Within the OECD, preliminary Norwegian data show record1.06 mln bpd output in January, with lower production expectedin February in accordance with government curtailments ofapproximately 80,000 bpd, announced in support of OPEC. REUTER
PEMEX LOWERS FEBRUARY FAR EAST CRUDE OIL PRICES The Mexican state oil companyPetroleos Mexicanos (PEMEX) said its Far East customers wouldbe charged 17.25 dlrs per barrel for Isthmus crude in Februaryand 14.45 dlrs for the heavier Maya.    Pemex said this was 32 cts less than January Isthmus and 15cts less than January Maya.    Far East customers, primarily Japan which buys an average180,000 barrels per day of which 150,000 is Isthmus, payretroactively while European and U.S. clients are charged perdelivery. Reuter
PERMIAN <PBT> RAISES CRUDE PRICES Permian Corp said that effective march 5it raised its posted prices for crude oil 50 cts a barrel.    The raise brought its posted prices for West texasIntermediate up by 50 cts to 17.00 dlrs a barrel.    West Texas Sour was also raised by 50 cts to 17.00 dlrs abarrel.    A Permian spokesman said that the South Louisiana sweetposted prices was also raised 50 cts a barrel to 17.35 dlrs. Reuter
ECUADOR SAYS SUSPENDS OIL EXPORTS DUE EARTHQUAKE Ecuador today suspended its crude oilexports indefinitely due to an earthquake last night thatdamaged pumping and crude transport installations, an Energyand Mines MInistry statement said.    It said the state oil firm Corporacion Estatal PetroleraEcuatoriana (CEPE) notified foreign customers that it wasdeclaring force majeure on its crude exports due to the tremor.    Ecuador"s OPEC oil output quota is 210,000 barrels per day(bpd).    A senior energy ministry official said that one pumpingstation at El Salado on Ecuador's main pipeline was damaged.    He also said an 180 metre section of the pipeline attachedto the bridge over the Aguarico river collapsed.    The pumping station was about 20 km from the Reventadorvolcano, near the epicentre of the quake, which Ecuadoreanseismologists said registered six on the 12-point internationalMercalli scale. The Aguarico bridge was also close to thevolcano, he said.    The quake struck northern Ecaudor and southern Colombia,according to Ecuadorean officials. No injuries were reported. REUTER
COLOMBIAN OIL EXPORTS NOT AFFECTED BY QUAKE Colombian oil installations were notdamaged by an earthquake which shook Ecuador and southernColombia last night and there are no plans to suspend exports,a spokesman for the state-run oil company Ecopetrol said.    He said no damage was reported, unlike in Ecuador whereindefinite force majeure was declared on crude exports.    Colombia currently produces about 360,000 barrels per day(bpd) of crude. Exports in january totalled 123,000 bpd.    The quake, which in Colombia measured between 6.5 and sevenon the 12-point international Mercalli scale, caused panicamong residents but no injuries were reported. Reuter
CRUDE OIL PRICES UP AS STOCKS, OUTPUT FALL U.S. crude oil prices rose above 18 dlrs a barrel this week and industry analysts said the pricecould rise another dollar as inventories fall.    "OPEC is keeping its production down, and in the cash marketthere is tight supply of crude with short transportation timeto major refining centers," said Daniel McKinley, oil analystwith Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co. "That could send prices50 cts to a dollar higher," he added.    The U.S. benchmark crude West Texas Intermediate rose to18.15 dlrs a barrel today, a rise of 1.50 dlrs this week.    The rally in oil prices this week came after prices fell inFebruary more than two dlrs from its high of 18.25 dlrs abarrel.    "Oil traders were pulling prices down on the assumption thatoil stocks were building and OPEC was producing well above its15.8 mln bpd quota, but now both of those assumptions have comeunder question," McKinley said.    Yesterday the International Energy Agency in its monthlyreport said that oil stocks in the OECD area, or inindustrialized nations, were drawn down by 1.3 mln bpd duringthe first quarter of this year.    IEA estimates that the draw in oil stocks during the firstquarter of this year will come largely from oil companies whoseinventory levels by April one will be an estimated 326 mlntonnes, or about 74 days consumption.    Industry analysts also said the estimate of a 3.5 mln bpddraw in stocks made by Shell Chairman Peter Holmes yesterdayfed speculation that other major companies were destocking.    Traders said the destocking has come about as a result of aso-called buyers strike, which kept refiners from buyingofficially priced OPEC oil in an effort to get the organizationto offer discounts to the official price.    "This struggle between the companies and OPEC is theultimate game of chicken but it will be resolved relativelysoon. I would imagine by about the middle of the month (March),"the general trading manager of an international oil companytold Reuters in a telephone interview.    For its part OPEC has moved to win this game by cuttingexcess supplies from the market by a reduction of its ownoutput, traders said. A Reuter survey estimates OPEC output tobe 14.7 mln bpd this week.    Also, an earthquake in Ecuador yesterday led it to suspendoil exports indefintiely and force majeure its shipments.    "This will reduce short-haul availabilities by about 250,000bpd almost immediately and the longer the suspension continues,the larger the draw in stocks will be for companies expectingit to be there," McKinley said.    International oil traders said that other short-haulcrudes, such as North Sea Brent, were also scarce because Asianrefiners bought the oil after absorbing a lot of the readilyavailable Mideast crudes earlier this week.    If this pattern continues then oil companies will bid upthe price of oil as they purchase for their refineries, tradingmanagers at several companies told Reuters.    But there were skeptics who said they wondered how longOPEC can retain its unity if buyer resistance continues.    Stephen Hanke, chief economist at Friedburg CommodityManagement, said OPEC production was lower "because of theSaudi cut (to 3.1 mln bpd) and this could spell trouble if itgives other members an incentive to exceed their quotas."     He added, "The Saudis will be picking up the tab for othermembers who produce over their quota, and the drain on theSaudis will continue, forcing them to cut output maybe as lowas 2.5 mln bpd to support the 18 dlrs average price," he added.    There are also signs of some OPEC crudes being sold in thespot market at below OPEC official prices, traders said.    Oil traders said Nigerian Brass River sold for deliveryinto the U.S. Gulf at a price related to North Sea brent, whichtraded this week at 17.60 dlrs, far below the official price of18.92 dlrs for the similar quality Bonny Light.    Iranian oil is also surfacing in the U.S. Gulf and the FarEast at reported discounts to its 17.50 dlrs official price.    "There is a lot of oil priced on government-to-governmentdeals, which are below official prices and this is probablybeing resold," one international trader said. Reuter
IRANIAN OIL MINISTER ARRIVES IN ALGERIA Iranian Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeharrived in Algiers at the head of a large delegation for talkson stabilizing oil prices, the official news agency APS said.    In a brief arrival statement, he said Iran and Algeria wereengaged in "continuous and stronger cooperation" on the worldpetroleum market and had "deployed considerable efforts tostablise petroleum prices."    He was greeted on arrival by Belkacem Nabi, the AlgerianMinister of Energy, Chemical and Petro-Chemical Industries. Reuter
POSITIVE OUTLOOK TEMPERED IN U.S. DEBT FUTURES Higher oil prices and stronger thanexpected U.S. employment growth led to sharp losses in U.S.interest rate futures and diminished what had been a positivechart outlook, financial analysts said.    The increase of 319,000 in non-farm payroll employmentduring February was above market expectations for a rise of170,000 to 200,000 jobs and sparked selling in Treasury bondfutures that drove the June contract through key technicalsupport at 101-2/32 at the opening Friday, they noted.    "I don't like that fact that we had a close below 101,"said Prudential Bache analyst Fred Leiner. The 101-2/32 levelin the June bond contract had been the top of a three-monthtrading range, which when penetrated during the rally Wednesdayled to bullish forecasts by chartists.    But analysts called it a false breakout on the weeklycharts when the June bond closed at 100-10/32 Friday.    Some also forecast that the high of the week at 101-19/32may signal a bearish double top formation portending steeplosses.    "I tend to go along with the double top scenario," saidNorthern Futures analyst Eileen Rico.    Rico noted that the possible formation, along with the factthat the rally of the last two weeks in bond futures hasoccurred on relatively low volume, were negative signals.    Despite what could be a negative chart outlook, Leinerremains cautiously optimistic, and June bonds should findsupport between 100 and 99-16/32 next week.    The optimistic outlook, as well as Leiner's expectationthat the yield curve will flatten in the near term, is based onan improving inflation outlook.    With the dollar stable and economic data giving the FederalReserve little room to ease monetary policy, "the inflationoutlook is improving," Leiner said, and that should lead torelatively stronger bond prices than bill and Eurodollarprices.    Still, Leiner noted that the recent rise in oil pricesremains a concern for the inflation outlook.    Oil rose during the week on reports that OPEC nations weremaintaining production quotas and official prices, and got anextra boost Friday due to the suspension of oil exports fromEcuador after an earthquake Thursday.    "The runup in crude oil will be a short-lived phenomenon,"said Carroll McEntee and McGinley analyst Brian Singer.    The rise in oil prices over the past week has been largely"media induced," Singer said. He noted that even though OPECproduction may be within quotas, "oil stocks are attremendously high levels."    Although the Ecuador situation could cause a delay, oilprices will eventually decline to the lows of late February, hesaid, and that will be a supportive influence for bond prices. Reuter
ECUADOR ADOPTS AUSTERITY MEASURES AFTER QUAKE OPEC member Ecuador adopted austeritymeasures to conserve fuel after oil production was paralyzed bya strong earthquake.    Energy and Mines Minister Javier Espinosa announced ontelevision the country would cut domestic fuel sales by 30 pct.A ministry statement had earlier announced indefinitesuspension of crude oil exports, declaring force majeure.    Deputy Energy Minister Fernando Santos Alvite told atelevision interviewer that it could possibly take more than amonth to repair Ecuador's main pipeline linking Amazon basinoil fields to the Pacific Ocean coast.    The quake on Thursday, which registered six on the 12-pointMercalli scale, killed at least six people and was centred nearthe Reventador volcano about 90 km (50 miles) east of Quito.    Ecuador had recently been pumping 260,000 barrels per day.    The government's austerity measures ban the sale ofaviation fuel to foreign airliners on international routes andno fuel will be available for ships owned by foreign lines.    Ecuador also banned the sale of petrol on weekends andholidays and limited sales on weekdays, an Energy and MinesMinistry communique said. REUTER
IRAQ-TURKEY OIL PIPELINE CUT BY LANDSLIDE Turkey oil pipeline near the southern town of Adana after itwas cut by a landslide, the Hurriyet and Anatolian newsagencies said.    Little oil was lost in the landslide Friday night becausetaps on the one mln bpd line were switched off after theaccident, they said.    The pipeline, which carries oil for Turkey and othercustomers from Iraq's Kirkuk field to the Yumurtalik terminalon the Turkish Mediterranean coast, is Iraq's main oil outlet. REUTER
ECUADOR TO EXPORT NO OIL FOR FOUR MONTHS, OFFICIAL The suspension of Ecuador's crude oilshipments after an earthquake cut an oil pipeline will last atleast four months, a senior Energy Ministry official said.    The official said Ecuador could resume exports afterrepairing a 40 km section of the 510 km pipeline, which linksjungle oil fields at Lago Agrio to Balao on the Pacific coast.It would take about 100 mln U.S. Dlrs to repair the pipeline,the official, who did not want to be named, told Reuters.Ecuador had enough oil to meet domestic demand for about 35days and would have to import crude to supplement stocks.    The earthquake last Thursday night registered six on the12-point international Mercalli scale. The damage to thepipeline was a severe economic blow to Ecuador, where oilaccounts for up to two-thirds of total exports and as much as60 pct of government revenues.    Financially pressed Ecuador, a member of the Organisationof Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), was recently pumpingabout 260,000 barrels per day (bpd) of crude, about 50,000 bpdabove the output quota assigned by the cartel, another EnergyMinistry spokesman said. Last year, it exported an average of173,500 bpd, according to the central bank.    However, Ecuador might build an emergency 25 km pipeline,costing 15 to 20 mln dlrs, to hook up with a Colombianpipeline, the first official said. He estimated it could takeabout 60 days to build.    Ecuador, squeezed by the slide in world oil prices in 1986,had only 138 mln dlrs in net international reserves at the endof January, about equal to one month's imports.    It suspended interest payments in January on 5.4 billiondlrs owed to about 400 private foreign banks. The country'stotal foreign debt is 8.16 billion dlrs, the eighth largest inLatin America.    In Caracas, President Jaime Lusinchi said Venezuela wouldloan five mln barrels of crude to Ecuador over the next threemonths to make up for losses from damage to the pipeline.    Ecuador asked for the loan to guarantee domestic suppliesand would ship an equivalent volume back to Venezuela inrepayment in May, Lusinchi said.    A commission headed by Venezuelan Investment Fund MinisterHector Hurtado and including representatives from the interiorand defence ministries and the state oil company Petroleos deVenezuela will travel to Ecuador Tuesday to evaluate andco-ordinate an emergency relief program, he said. REUTER
IRAN SELLING DISCOUNTED CRUDE, JAPAN TRADERS SAY Japanese customers have bought nearly sixmln barrels of crude oil from the National Iranian Oil Company(NIOC) at a substantial discount to the official price, andWestern traders have received even larger discounts, Japanesetraders involved in the transactions told Reuters.    NIOC has sold its crude for March shipment to Japanesecustomers with different formulas. One company has bought800,000 barrels of Iranian Heavy at a straight discount of30-35 cents below the official price, the sources said.    Other deals have been fixed with prices linked to Oman andDubai spot prices less a discount, they said.    Iran's discounted sales have not, however, managed toreverse the bullish tone in the crude oil and products spotmarkets, oil traders said.    Market sentiment is being influenced more by the colderweather in Europe, and reports that OPEC's February output wasbelow its self-imposed quota of 15.8 mln barrels per day.    Firmer gas oil on the London futures, and more bullishsentiment on the New York Mercantile Exchange futures marketare supporting spot price levels, they said.    Another Japanese trading house has paid the official pricebut through a processing arrangement will effectively receive adiscount, the sources said. "It's just disguised cheating," oneJapanese trader said.    The sources said only one Japanese company had paid theofficial price for Iranian oil. It has purchased 1.5 mlnbarrels of Iranian Heavy for April shipment for refining inSingapore. They said about nine VLCCs of Iranian crude havebeen sold to Western traders with pricing based 60 pct on theofficial price and 40 pct on spot prices, or with part of theprice related to processing arrangements.
AMOCO REPORTS SOUTH CHINA SEA OIL FIND The U.S. <Amoco Petroleum Corp> hasreported an offshore oil find at its Pearl River basinconcession in the South China Sea, the New China News Agencysaid.    It said the Liu Hua 11-1-1 A well produced at around 2,240barrels per day at a depth of 305 metres.    The news agency said Amoco plans to drill a second well inthe area this year, but gave no further details. REUTER
API REPORTS SHARP FALL IN DRILLINGS Estimated oil and gas drillingcompletions in the United States dropped by almost 41 per centin 1986 from 1985, the American Petroleum Institute said.    API, an industry group, said that of the 42,387 wellscompleted last year, a total of 19,741 were oil wells, 8,645were natural gas wells and 14,001 were dry holes.    In 1985, a total of 71,539 wells were drilled - 36,834 oilwells, 13,036 gas wells and 21,669 dry holes. reuter
BRAZILIAN SEAFARERS' STRIKE DAMAGES OIL EXPORTS A strike by Brazil's 40,000 seafarerswho want pay rises of up to 180 pct may have cost thestate-owned oil company Petrobras 20 mln dlrs in lost exportorders, the company's commercial director Arthur de Carvalhowas quoted as saying in press reports.    More than 170 ships in Brazil, and about nine more inforeign ports, have been halted by the strike, which began onFebruary 27.    Marines began blockading the ships on Friday after thestrike was ruled illegal, and some strikers are running shortof food, National Merchants Marine Union president Edson Areiassaid. Reuter
ECUADOR TO EXPORT NO OIL FOR 4 MONTHS, OFFICIAL The suspension of Ecuador's crude oilshipments after an earthquake cut an oil pipeline will last atleast four months, a senior Energy Ministry official said.    The official said Ecuador could resume exports afterrepairing a 40 km section of the 510 km pipeline, which linksjungle oil fields at Lago Agrio to Balao on the Pacific coast.It would take about 100 mln U.S. Dlrs to repair the pipeline,the official, who did not want to be named, told Reuters.Ecuador had enough oil to meet domestic demand for about 35days and would have to import crude to supplement stocks.    The earthquake last Thursday night registered six on the12-point international Mercalli scale. The damage to thepipeline was a severe economic blow to Ecuador, where oilaccounts for up to two-thirds of total exports and as much as60 pct of government revenues.    Financially pressed Ecuador, a member of the Organisationof Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), was recently pumpingabout 260,000 barrels per day (bpd) of crude, about 50,000 bpdabove the output quota assigned by the cartel, another EnergyMinistry spokesman said. Last year, it exported an average of173,500 bpd, according to the central bank.    However, Ecuador might build an emergency 25 km pipeline,costing 15 to 20 mln dlrs, to hook up with a Colombianpipeline, the first official said. He estimated it could takeabout 60 days to build.    Ecuador, squeezed by the slide in world oil prices in 1986,had only 138 mln dlrs in net international reserves at the endof January, about equal to one month's imports.    It suspended interest payments in January on 5.4 billiondlrs owed to about 400 private foreign banks. The country'stotal foreign debt is 8.16 billion dlrs, the eighth largest inLatin America.    In Caracas, President Jaime Lusinchi said Venezuela wouldloan five mln barrels of crude to Ecuador over the next threemonths to make up for losses from damage to the pipeline.    Ecuador asked for the loan to guarantee domestic suppliesand would ship an equivalent volume back to Venezuela inrepayment in May, Lusinchi said.    A commission headed by Venezuelan Investment Fund MinisterHector Hurtado and including representatives from the interiorand defence ministries and the state oil company Petroleos deVenezuela will travel to Ecuador Tuesday to evaluate andco-ordinate an emergency relief program, he said. REUTER
OECD TRADE, GROWTH SEEN SLOWING IN 1987 The 24 nations of the Organisation forEconomic Cooperation and Development (OECD), hampered bysluggish industrial output and trade, face slower economicgrowth, and their joint balance of payments will swing intodeficit in 1987, the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU ) said.    The EIU said in its World Trade Forecast it revised OECDeconomic growth downwards to 2.5 pct this year, compared with a2.8 pct growth forecast in December.    It said the new areas of weakness are West Germany and thesmaller European countries it influences, and Japan, hardesthit by currency appreciation this year.    The independent research organisation cut its 1987 growthrate forecasts for West Germany to 2.2 pct from 3.2 pct inDecember and to 2.3 pct from three pct for Japan.    It said it expected the OECD to post a current accountdeficit of some 13 billion dlrs in both 1987 and 1988, due inlarge part to a 1.50 dlrs a barrel rise in 1987 oil prices.    It said the U.S. Current account deficit looked likely tofall even more slowly than forecast, to 125 billion dlrs in1987 and 115 billion in 1988 from 130 billion in 1986.    It said it expected West Germany to post a 31 billion dlrpayments surplus and Japan a 76 billion dlr surplus this year.    The EIU said it saw oil prices dropping to around 16.50dlrs a barrel by end-1987 and 15.50 dlrs in 1988 from about 18dlrs last year, as adherence to OPEC output policy becomesincreasingly ragged.    It said the dollar is poised to resume its decline inforeign exchange markets, and will lose a further 13 pct on itstrade-weighted index this year and five pct in 1988 after lastyear's 18.4 pct drop.    The average mark/dollar rate is put at 1.80 marks this yearand 1.70 in 1988 while the yen/dollar rate is expected to breakthrough the 150 yen barrier with an average value of 150 yen in1987 and 146 yen in 1988, it said.    "This is not a crash scenario but the dollar's steeper angleof descent increases the risk of ending with a fireball ratherthan a three-point landing," the EIU said.    "Talking will not stop the dollar's slide for long and theFebruary meeting (of finance ministers of the Group of Five andCanada) produced scant promise of either a decisive shift tomore expansive policies in West Germany and Japan, or a tighterU.S. Fiscal policy," it said.    It said the key to the dollar's fortunes was thewillingness of Japanese institutions to buy U.S. Governmentassets despite prospects of sustaining a currency loss.    "Thus far they have been willing," the EIC said, adding thatif Japan was deterred from buying U.S. Bonds the dollar wouldcollapse.    To contain such a currency crisis, dollar interest rateswould have to soar, bringing recession and a Third World debtcrisis, it said.    On trade, the EIU said prospects for 1987 look "increasinglysick."    Import growth, forecast in December at 4.5 pct, is now seenslowing down to around 3.8 pct in 1987 with a recovery only to4.2 pct in 1988, it said.    The weakness of the West German economy is the biggestsingle factor, with import growth there expected to feature asluggish 3.5 pct growth in 1987 against the 6.5 pct forecast inDecember, the EIU said.    On the export side, it said it saw weak demand in WestGermany affecting export prospects elsewhere in Europe, whileJapan's exports in 1987 would remain flat and sales by U.S.Exporters would respond only marginally to a lower, morecompetitively-priced dollar.    It said in most of Europe and in Japan, raw materials andoil will cost less in domestic currency in 1987 than in 1986.    However, rates of inflation will edge up in 1988 to overthe current OECD average of three pct. Non-oil commodity priceswill show a modest dollar price increase in 1988 for the firsttime since 1984, the EIU said.    After a rise of 18 pct in 1986, the dollar price ofinternationally traded manufactures will go up by 8.5 pct in1987 and by five pct in 1988, it said.    It said OECD industrial production would rise by only 1.6pct in 1987 after a weak 1.5 pct increase in 1986. Reuter
AMOCO'S FIRST SOUTH CHINA SEA EXPLORATORY WELL FLOWS 2,240 BARRELS OF O Kingdom of Sweden is issuing a 100 mlnstg bond due April 15, 1997 carrying a coupon of 9-1/2 pct andpriced at 101-1/4, Baring Brothers and Co Ltd said as leadmanager.    The issue is payable on April 15, 1987.    The bonds are callable after seven years at 100-1/8 pct andit will be listed on the London Stock Exchange. Fees are a1-3/8 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct combined managementand underwriting. REUTER
SHELL CANADA SAID IT RAISED CRUDE PRICES BY 47 CANADIAN CTS A BARR Hudson Bay Mining and Smelting Co Ltdsaid it cut prices for all grades of zinc sold in North Americaby one U.S. cent a pound and by one Canadian cent a pound,effective immediately.    The new price for high grade zinc is 37 U.S. cents and49-1/2 Canadian cents a pound, the company said.    Special high grade, prime western and continuousgalvanizing grade with controlled lead now costs 37-1/2 U.S.cents and 50 Canadian cents a pound. The new price forcontinuous galvanizing grade alloyed with controlled lead andaluminum additions is 37-3/4 U.S. cents and 50-1/4 Canadiancents a pound. Reuter
HAMILTON OIL <HAML> SAYS RESERVES RISE Hamilton Oil Corp said reserves at theend of 1986 were 59.8 mln barrels of oil and 905.5 billioncubic feet of natural gas, or 211 mln barrels equivalent, up 10mln equivalent barrels from a year before. Reuter
GRAHAM-MCCORMICK <GOP> SELLS OIL AND GAS STAKE Graham-McCormick Oil and GasPartnership said it completed the sale of interests in twomajor oil and gas fields to <Energy Assets International Corp>for 21 mln dlrs.    The company said it sold about one-half of its 50 pctinterest in the Oak Hill and North Rucias fields, its twolargest producing properties.    It said it used about 20 mln dlrs of the proceeds to prepayprincipal on its senior secured notes. Semi-annual principalpayments on the remaining 40 mln dlrs of notes have beensatisfied until December 1988 as a result, it said.    The company said the note agreements were amended toreflect an easing of some financial covenants, and an increaseof interest to 13.5 pct from 13.0 pct until December 1990.    It said the noteholders exercise price for 1,125,000warrants was also reduced to 50 cts from 1.50 dlrs.    The company said Energy Assets agreed to share the costs ofincreasing production at the Oak Hill field. Reuter
SHELL CANADA <SHC> RAISED CRUDE OIL POSTINGS Shell Canada, a wholly owned subsidiaryof the Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD> said that it raised crudeoil prices by about 47 Canadian cts a barrel today.    The increase riased its posted price for Light sweet crudeoil to 21.95 dlrs a barrel from its march one level.    Light sour crudes were raised to 19.95 dlrs a barrel, thecompany said. Reuter
FITZWATER SAYS REAGAN STRONGLY AGAINST TAX HIKE White House spokesman MarlinFitzwater said President Reagan's record in opposing tax hikesis "long and strong" and not about to change.    "We're opposed to tax increases.... We will fight taxincreases.... We will deal with it politically in every forumpossible," said Fitzwater when questioned about whether therewas any change in the administration's position.    Fitzwater said Reagan's strong feelings against a tax hikeincluded opposition to an oil import fee.    "The President's position is that he is opposed to it," hesaid. REUTER
 CANADIAN OIL COMPANIES RAISE CRUDE PRICES Petro-Canada, the state-owned oilcompany, said it raised the contract price it will pay forcrude oil 64 Canadian cts a barrel, effective March six.    Petro-Canada's posted price for the benchmark light sweetgrade, Edmonton/Swann Hills at 40 api gravity, now stands at21.95 Canadian dlrs/bbl. Their light sour grade is posted at19.88 Canadian dlrs/bbl.    Earlier today, Shell Canada <SHC> said it raised its crudepostings about 47 Canadian cts/bbl, bringing Edmonton lightsweet to 21.95 Canadian dlrs/bbl, and the light sour crude to19.95 Canadian dlrs/bbl.    Imperial oil <IMO.A>, a 70 pct owned subsidiary of ExxonCorp, said that effective March five it also raised its lightsweet crude posting to 21.95 Canadian dlrs/bbl. Reuter
ECUADOR QUAKE TO CUT OIL REVENUES 800 MLN DLRS up to 300 people were feared dead and morethan 15,000 people left homeless by thursday's earthquake,which will cost Ecuador close to 800 mln dlrs in lost petroleumrevenues, authorities said.    They estimated the cost of repairing a damaged oil pipelineat 150 mln dlrs.    "the magnitude of the damages caused by the earthquake isgigantic," president leon febres cordero said after inspectingthe damages in napo, the hardest-hit jungle province, 100 milesfrom here.    The quake damaged 40 km of an oil pipeline, forcing thisopec nation to suspend crude exports for four months, presidentfebres cordero said in a statement issued today by thepresidential press office.    The country would lose an estimated 800 mln dlrs in crudeexports until the pipeline was repaired, the president said. Itwould cost 150 mln dlrs to repair the pipelline which carriesoil from jungle oil fields over the andes to Balao, a pacificocean port.    Crude traditionally accounts for up to two-thirds ofecuador's exports.    the quake triggered landslides, swelling the aguarico riverwhich burst it banks carrying away homes and huts in napoprovince, health minister jorge brancho told reuters.    "we fear that up to 300 people died in napo though there isno way of now knowing the exact figure because many people havedisappeared," he said.    Other estimates ranged as high as 500 dead.    So far 20 corpses have been recovered, bracho said.    Information Minister Marco Lara told reporters: "the numberof dead and injured is not known ... because we do not know howmany people lived in the homes hit by the landslides."    Bracho said at least 15,000 were left homeless in thecayambe district. Reuter
CONOCO RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES UP TO ONE DLR BARREL, WTI AT 17 Systemhouse Inc said it won acontract valued at 2.6 mln dlrs from Genstar Stone Products, aHunt Valley, Md., supplier of building materials, to design,install and operate Genstar's data center in Baltimore.    The data center is scheduled to begin operating in May. Thepact is a three-year deal, the company said. Reuter
DUPONT <DD> UNIT RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES Conoco Inc, a subsidiary of DuPontCorp, said it was increasing its contract prices for crude oilbetween 10 cts and one dlr a barrel, effective today.    Conoco said the increase brings its price for the U.S.benchmark crude West Texas Intermediate to 17.50 dlrs a barrel,up one dlr.    South Louisiana Sweet, also up one dlr, is now 17.85 dlrs.West Texas Sour was up 10 cts to 16.60 dlrs a barrel.    Conoco was the last company to raise prices following aseries of increases initiated last week by Sun Co <SUN>, whichreversed the posted price cuts made at the end of February. Reuter
PICKENS SEES CONTINUED SLUMP IN WORKING RIGS T. Boone Pickens, the Texas oilman andfinancier, said he believes the heady days the oil serviceindustry had in the early 1980s, when over 4,500 oil rigs wereonce reported operating, will not return in his lifetime.     Pickens told Reuters he expects the rig count to drop tobelow 600 before recovering. He added that oil prices willeventually rise to 35 dlrs, then to 50 dlrs after 1990.     Currently, some 700 oil rigs are operating in the U.S.,down sharply after oil prices slipped from 30 dlrs in late 1985to around 10 dlrs in 1986. Prices are now around 18 dlrs. Thehighest number of working rigs was 4,500 in December 1981.     "The rigs won't go back to work until the price of oilgets above 30 dlrs," he said, adding that while he expects tosee 50 dlr a barrel oil, he does not expect to see 2,000 rigsoperating in his lifetime. Pickens is 58.     Pickens, who is currently touring the country promotinghis autobiography "Boone," said he does not believe the U.S.should impose an oil import fee in order to stimulate thedomestic oil industry. Reuter
IRANIAN OIL MINISTER IN UAE TALKS Iranian Oil Minister GholamrezaAqazadeh is in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to discuss oilprices and the general market situation, Iranian officialsaccompanying him said.    He will meet UAE President Sheikh Zaid bin Sultanal-Nahayan and Oil Minister Mana Said al-Oteiba.    Aqazadeh arrived last night after a brief stopover inRiyadh, where he met Saudi Arabia's Oil Minister Hisham Nazir.    The official Saudi Press Agency quoted him as saying histalks at Riyadh with Nazir had been constructive and good.    Aqazadeh said Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries(OPEC) members were agreed on holding production stable and hereiterated the importance of maintaining oil prices.    OPEC members agreed in December to limit production to 15.8mln barrels per day for the first half of this year and on abenchmark price of 18 dlrs a barrel from February 1.    Aqazadeh also visted OPEC members Gabon, Algeria and Libya.The Iranian news agency, IRNA, quoted him as saying beforeleaving Tripoli that OPEC should do everything possible to makeoil prices permanently stable. REUTER
SAUDI ARABIA'S KING FAHD WANTS STABLE OIL PRICES King Fahd said today Saudi Arabia wantsoil price stability and he called on non-OPEC producers toavoid harmful competition with the 13 nation group.    His plea, in an interview with Reuters and the televisionnews agency Visnews, came ahead of a state visit he will maketo Britain later this month.    King Fahd was asked whether Saudi Arabia would be preparedto reduce its oil output below its OPEC quota of 4.133 mlnbarrels per day (bpd) to defend the 18 dlr benchmark priceagreed to by OPEC last December.    The King replied: "Saudi Arabia doesn't decide prices byitself but certainly desires price stability."    Non-OPEC countries "must help us in a framework of commoninterest so that there is no type of competition which couldprove harmful to everyone," he said.    Asked if he saw the 18 dlr per barrel benchmark as a firststep towards higher world oil prices, King Fahd said it was notfor Saudi Arabia but for all OPEC countries to determine suchissues. Iran and Algeria have already called for a higherbenchmark.    In recent weeks the 18 dlr level has come under pressure,due partly to quota violations by some OPEC members. King Fahdsaid Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil exporter, wasadhering to decisions made at OPEC's December conference whichset a 15.8 mln bpd output ceiling for the first half of 1987.    A major non-OPEC producer, Britain has so far resisted thegroup's pleas to curb its North Sea oil output.    The King also urged the world community to help thePalestinians return to their homeland and called for a peacefulend to the Iran-Iraq war. The 6-1/2-year-old war could not beresolved on the battlefield, he said. REUTER
OIL FIRMS CUT 1987 INDONESIAN EXPLORATION SPENDING Foreign oil companies will spend lesson exploration in Indonesia this year than last, budgeting 2.7billion dlrs for calendar 1987 against 1986 spending of 2.8billion dlrs, the state oil company Pertamina said.    Actual spending last year fell short of the budgeted figureof 3.2 billion dlrs, as oil companies slashed expenditurebecause of the crash in world oil prices.    Jumardi Jukardi, head of Pertamina's coordinating board forforeign contractors, said foreign companies will drill 110exploration wells and 431 development wells this year, against108 and 330 last year. REUTER
INDONESIA OIL CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS END THIS MONTH Negotiations between Indonesia's stateoil company Pertamina and foreign oil contractors on extensionof the standard 30-year production sharing contract will beconcluded by the end of this month, a Pertamina official said.    Jumardi Jukardi, head of Pertamina's foreign contractorscoordinating board, gave no details about the outcome of thetalks.    But Pertamina President Abdul Rachman Ramly has saidpriority will be given to extending contracts for companieswhose exploration and production contracts expire within thenext seven to 10 years.    Jukardi, speaking to Indonesian reporters, said thenegotiations would determine whether the 85-15 productionsharing split in favour of Pertamina would be adhered to oraltered in some cases as oil companies are asking for.    Hardjoko Seputro, spokesman for the Mines and EnergyMinistry, has said that President Suharto has agreed inprinciple to extension of the standard 30-year productionsharing contract to reflect better current depressed conditionson the international oil market. REUTER
ECUADOR CRUDE OIL EXPORTS STOPPED FOR FIVE MONTHS Ecuador needs 120 mln dlrs to repair thedamage to its oil export pipeline caused by last week"searthquake, which will stop crude exports for five months,energy and mines minister Javier Espinosa Teran said.    Espinosa said yesterday the pipeline, which carries crudefrom jungle fields to the Pacific Ocean coast of Balao, wouldbe repaired with the help of Texaco Inc <TX.N> and a Mexicanand an Argentine firm.    President Leon Febres Cordero said two days ago thatEcuador, an OPEC member, would have to suspend crude exportsfor four months due to the quake.    Oil traditionally accounts for up to two-thirds ofEcuador's total exports and as much as 60 pct of governmentrevenues.    Deputy energy minister Fernando Santos Alvite said Ecuadorwould have to import six to seven mln barrels of crude oil tomeet its needs until the line was repaired.    The Ecuadorean minister at the Presidency, PatricioQuevedo, told reporters that Venezuela will lend Ecuador fivemln barrels of crude, which would repaid in kind after a180-day period.    He added the Caracas-based Andean Development Corp hadgranted a loan of 11.7 mln dlrs towards repairing the pipeline,50 km of which had been damaged in the quake.    In Quito, Foreign Minister Rafael Garcia Velasco yesterdaysummoned ambassadors from about 40 countries to whom he issuedappeal for emergency aid for the country. Only three countries,the U.S., Colombia and Venezuela, had offered assistance. REUTER
TALKING POINT/OIL SERVICES TURNAROUND SEEN The oil services industry is on theverge of a recovery because of rising crude prices, oilindustry analysts said.    The analysts, who issued buy recommendations on somestocks, said the recovery in oil services should begin in thesecond half of 1987, after drilling activity bottoms out in thefirst half, and continue into the next decade.     "People, however, cannot afford to wait for drilling to goup to start buying," said Sandi Haber Sweeney, senior researchanalyst at Sanford C. Bernstein and Co Inc.    Among the recommended buys are Schlumberger Ltd <SLB>,Halliburton Co <HAL>, Dresser Industries <DI>, BakerInternational <BKO>, and McDermott International Inc <MDR>,which may be the target of a takeover by Harold Simmons, aDallas-based investor.    Analysts said although major oil companies are increasingexploration and development overseas, they expect the pickup inoil services will begin in the U.S.    "Activity in the U.S. is so depressed it should move upfaster," said Vishnu Sharp of Goldman Sachs.    The number of active oil drilling rigs in the U.S. was 766last week compared with 1,212 rigs one year ago, Huges Tool Co<HT> figures show.    The average number of working rigs in the U.S. for 1987 isprojected at 978 versus 964 in 1986, according to Ike Kerridge,vice president of stockholder relations at Hughes Tool. "Thefirst significant pickup in drilling activity will occur in thesecond half of 1988," Kerridge said.    Overseas drilling activity is expected to follow a similarpattern, Kerridge said.    "Halliburton is the best value," said Jeffrey Freedman,vice president at Smith Barney, Harris and Upham Inc, addingthe company controls the greatest amount of liquidity of commonstock market value, is diversifed in non-oil field businesess,and has the lowest multiple of stock price to operating cashflow including debt.    Schlumberger is Freedman's second favorite oil servicestock.    "Schlumberger is expected to continue to be the dominanttechnical leader in the industry," Freedman said.    "Schlumberger's management shift, asset restructuring,including a pending merger of Fairchild Semiconductor, and itsconsiderable cash horde sets the stage for the company tomaximize its significant industry advantage and capitalize onthe project upturn in exploration and development activity,"according to a report by George Gaspar, first vice president atRobert W. Baird and Co Inc.    Gaspar estimates earnings per share for Schlumberger at 25cts for 1987 and one to 1.75 dlrs in 1988 compared with 20 ctsin 1986 excluding a fourth quarter special charge of 1.87billion dlrs.    Bernstein's Sandi Sweeney is recommending a group of oilservice companies and said choosing among them is difficult.Her favorite is Baker International, which is involved in apossible merger with Hughes Tool Co.    Dresser Industries will also benefit from the recovery butpossibly not as much as other companies because it is not apure service company, Sweeney said.    Dresser is expected to improve profitability owing to costreductions and streamlined operations, including the sale andleaseback of its headquarters, said Swarup. Reuter
ECUADOR DEPUTY MINISTER SEEKS OIL AID IN VENEZUELA Ecuador's deputy energy ministerFernando Santos Alvite arrived here last night for talks onfurther Venezuelan assistance to his country's oil industryfollowing last week's earthquake, officials said.    Ecuador was obliged to suspend crude oil exports for anexpected five months as a result of damage to 25 miles ofpipeline linking its jungle oil fields with the Pacific port ofBalao. Oil normally accounts for 60 pct of its exports.    Fellow OPEC member Venezuela has already agreed to lendEcuador five mln barrels of crude, to be repaid in kind after180 days, to help meet its domestic consumption needs.    The officials could neither confirm nor deny reports thatVenezuela will temporarily produce Ecuador's entire OPEC quota,set at 210,000 barrels per day for first half 1987.    "All options are open at this moment in the context ofcooperation on oil production," a Venezuelan energy and minesministry source said.    Discussions are also under way to arrive at a formula tocompensate Ecuador for the loss in oil export revenue while thepipeline is repaired, officials said.    Santos Alvite last night met Venezuelan energy and minesminister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti and will today hold talks attechnical level, officials said.    Industry sources said that among the options are forVenezuela to produce Ecuador's entire quota, or for Venezuelaand non-OPEC Mexico to share it and for the latter to supplyEcuador's Far Eastern clients.    But the ministry source said that no decision has yet beenreached on the matter, and that an announcement would be madein due course.    Santos Alvite said earlier in Quito that Ecuador would haveto import six to seven mln barrels of crude oil to meet itsneeds until the line was repaired.    Ecuador energy and mines minister Javier Espinosa Teransaid last night his country needs 120 mln dlrs to repair thedamage to the export pipeline caused by the earthquake. REUTER
ECUADOR OFFICIAL SEEKS OIL AID IN VENEZUELA Ecuador's deputy energy ministerFernando Santos Alvite arrived here last night for talks onfurther Venezuelan assistance to his country's oil industryfollowing last week's earthquake, officials said.    Ecuador was obliged to suspend crude oil exports for anexpected five months as a result of damage to 25 miles ofpipeline linking its jungle oil fields with the Pacific port ofBalao. Oil normally accounts for 60 pct of its exports.    Fellow OPEC member Venezuela has already agreed to lendEcuador five mln barrels of crude, to be repaid in kind after180 days, to help meet its domestic consumption needs. Reuter
ENERGY/FOREIGN INVESTORS Lured by the weakening dollar and theconviction that oil prices are poised for a rebound, Europeanenergy companies are buying up cheap U.S. oil and gas reservesto replenish their supplies, oil industry analysts said.    They said owning oil reserves in a politically stableUnited States is good insurance against future shortages.However, the quick pace of foreign investment has heated upcompetition among European firms, well-heeled U.S.institutional investors and major oil companies to snare choicedomestic oil properties.    Strevig and Associates, a Houston firm that tracks oil andgas reserve sales, said growing interest among foreign buyershad helped push reserve prices in recent months higher. Allbuyers of U.S. reserves paid a median price of 6.45 dlrs abarrel of oil during the fourth quarter of 1986 foracquisitions, up from 5.33 dlrs in the third quarter and fivedlrs in the second quarter, according to the firm's research.    "Foreign investors have been here nibbling a long time, butwe're seeing new names and smaller companies coming in," saidArthur Smith, an oil property appraisal specialist andpresident of John S. Herold Inc in Greenwich, Conn.    "Europeans, especially, do not have much indigenous oil andgas and realize the tide will eventually turn in favor of theOrganization of Petroleum Exporting Countries," he added.    Smith and other oil industry analyst and economists believethe trend in foreign investments will continue in 1987 becauseof the fall in value of the U.S. dollar, the perception thatoil prices have hit bottom and the fact that it is cheaper tobuy new reserves than to explore for them.    Plenty of properties are available on the market, thanks tothe need of many companies to raise cash for debt payments andgeneral restructuring throughout the oilpatch.    In two of the biggest transactions of recent months,French-owned Minatome Corp., a unit of <Total CompagnieFrancaise des Petroles>, spent more than 230 mln dlrs toseparately acquire oil assets of Texas International <TEICC>and Lear Petroleum Partners <LPP>. A spokesman for Minatomesaid the company is searching for additional acquisitions.    A partnership of two Belgian-owned firms, <Petrofina S.A.>and <Cometra Oil S.A.> paid 150 mln dlrs late last year to buyvirtually all the exploration assets of the Williams Cos <WMB>,the Oklahoma pipeline firm.    But Japanese investors prefer entering into joint ventureswith experienced U.S. companies to explore for new oil. Japan's<Nippon Oil> is a partner of Texaco Inc's <TX> Texaco USA in a100 mln dlrs U.S. drilling program, and has joined withDupont's <DD> Conoco Inc in a similar 135 dlrs mln deal.    Most buyers said the pay-back period of a property, itsgeographic location and the lifting cost of the crude oil aremore important factors in evaluating potential acquisitionsthan relying on a simple price-per-barrel formula.    Rich Hodges, a Houston-based land manager representingInternational Oil and Gas Corp, a partnership of <PreussagCorp> and <C. Deilmann Inc> of West Germany, said the firm hadearmarked at least 50 mln dlrs to spend on oil reserves inTexas, Oklahoma or Louisiana in the coming months.    But he called that a small amount compared to the amountother investors have for acquisitions. PaineWebber's GeodyneEnergy Income Fund, for example, has said it plans to spend upto 300 mln dlrs on oil and gas properties.    "The competition is stiff, not only from other foreigninvestors but from the brokerage houses and U.S. oilcompanies," he said. "Our company is shopping around because wefeel it's substantially less risky than pure exploration. Ifyou're going to take the risk inherent in exploration, you needprices higher than the current market," he added.    In addition to the foreign investors and U.S. brokeragehouses, analysts said many of the major oil companies were alsocompeting for prime properties.    Houston-based Shell Oil Co, a unit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group<RD>, has been one of the most active companies in buying andselling reserves, Smith said. Since 1982, Shell has acquiredtwo billion dlrs in new reserves, including 470 mln barrels ofoil equivalent at a net cost of 2.80 dlrs a barrel, he said.    "Buying reserves is a good strategy for most of thesecompanies," Smith said. "Domestic production has dropped by onemln barrels a day because of cutbacks in drilling and it maydrop by another one mln barrels a day in 1988." Reuter
JORDAN-PETROCANADA AGREE OIL EXPLORATION PROJECT A two-year project to search for oil andgas in Jordan was agreed in Amman by Jordan's Natural ResourcesAuthority (NRA) and the Canadian company, PetrocanadaInternational Assistance Corporation (PCIAC).    The 19.1 mln dlr assistance agreement was signed byJordan's Minister of Energy Hisham al-Khatib and PCIAC chairmanPeter M. Towe.    PCIAC is a Canadian government corporation providingassistance to countries like Jordan to reduce their dependenceon oil imports, Towe said. Reuter
BRAZIL'S SARNEY MEETS STRIKES WITH SHOW OF FORCE With troops in place in Brazil'sports and oil installations, the government of Prersident JoseSarney today sought to end a wave of labour unrest by a show offorce.    Yesterday the government sent thousands of troops supportedin some instances by tanks to occupy nine oil refineries andsix areas of oil production.    The state-oil company Petrobras requested the interventionbecause of a threatened strike by 55,000 oil industryemployees.    The government had already dispatched more than 1,000marines to occupy the country's main ports after a nationalseamen's strike was ruled illegal last Friday.    The strike by 40,000 seamen, now in its 13th day,represents a stern challenge to the government.    The stoppage has delayed exports at a time when Brazildesperately needs foreign exchange.    It was a deterioration in the country's trade balance whichprecipitated Brazil's current debt crisis and the decision onFebruary 20 to suspend interest payments on 68 billion dlrs ofcommercial debt.    There was no sign today of an early end to the seamen'sstrike, which has badly hit the port of Santos -- the mostimportant in South America -- and the country's other mainports.    Small groups of marines armed with submachineguns stand onthe quays near the strike-bound ships, but the militarypresence here is generally discreet.    A total of 800 marines are inside the docks but most areout of sight.    Yesterday marines and police occupied one ship, theDocemarte, seamen's leaders said. After explaining to thecaptain that the strikers faced up to one year in jail becausethe strike was illegal, the men returned to work.    One of the strike leaders, Elmano Barbosa, said "it is apsychological war. They are using force and we are usingpeaceful methods."    Port sources said only two Brazilian ships in Santos, theDocemarte and the Henrique Leal, were working.    At the seamen's national strike headquarters in Rio deJaneiro, spokesmen say a total of about 190 ships arestrike-bound in Brazil and in foreign ports.    Contradicting earlier reports from strike headquarters inRio de Janeiro, seamen in Santos said the strikers on boardships here were not running out of food.    The current labour unrest is the worst faced by Sarney'scivilian government since it came to power two years ago.    Yesterday, in a separate protest, hundreds of thousands offarmers held rallies directed largely against high bankinterest rates.    The current rash of labour unrest in industry andagriculture stems from the failure of the government'snow-collapsed Cruzado Plan price freeze. Reuter
VENEZUELA MOVES CLOSER TO CHAMPLIN PURCHASE the council of ministers approvedpetroleos de venezuela's planned purchase of a half interest inthe champlin petroleum refinery at corpus christi, texas,government sources said.    The cabinet authorized energy and mines minister arturohernandez grisanti to approve the purchase in the shareholdersassembly of the state oil company petroleos de venezuela(pdvsa).    Pdvsa last april 14 signed a letter of intent to buy a halfinterest in champlin's corpus christi refinery for anundisclosed sum.    Under the terms of the provisional agreement, venezuelawould supply up to 160,000 barrels a day to the plant through anew company which would be jointly owned by the pdvsa andchamplin, a subsidiary of the union pacific corp <unp>.    The deal would also allow pdvsa a joint share in champlin'srefinery and distribution network.    The purhcase is one of a series of overseas joint venturesby which venezuela has managed to assure markets for some400,000 barrels of its approximately 1.5 mln bpd exports.    Hernandez grisanti told reporters after the cabinet meetingthat pdvsa will pay 93 mln dlrs for its half ownership in thechamplin refinery - 33 mln dlrs in cash and 60 mln dlrs crudeoil and products.    Through the deal, he said, venezuela will be assured thesale of at least 140,000 bpd of crude and products.    Hernandez said pdsva has entered similar joint ventureswith veba oel of west germany, nynas petroelum in sweden, andcitgo in the united states. Reuter
MARATHON TO RAISE CRUDE PRICES 50 CTS/BBL TOMORROW WTI  TO 17 General Electric Co's GESemiconductor Business said it agreed to sell its Datel unit toa group led by the unit's president, Nicolas Tagaris.    Terms were not disclosed.    Tagaris founded the company, which produces precision dataacquisition, conversion and control components and subsystems,in 1970. He sold it to GE in 1979. Reuter
EIA SAYS DISTILLATE, GAS STOCKS OFF IN WEEK Distillate fuel stocks held inprimary storage fell by 8.8 mln barrels in the week ended Marchsix to 119.6 mln barrels, the Energy Information Administration(EIA) said.    In its weekly petroleum status report, the Department ofEnergy agency said gasoline stocks were off 500,000 barrels inthe week to 251.0 mln barrels and refinery crude oil stocksfell 1.2 mln barrels to 331.8 mln.    The EIA said residual fuel stocks fell 1.5 mln barrels to36.4 mln barrels and crude oil stocks in the StrategicPetroleum Reserve (SPR) rose 200,000 barrels to 516.7 mln.    The total of all crude, refined product and SPR stocks fell10.3 mln barrels to 1,564.8, it said. Reuter
USX <X> UNIT TO RAISE MOST CRUDE POSTINGS USX's subsidiary, Marathon PetroleumCo, said it will raise its contract prices for eleven grades ofcrude oil 50 cts a barrel, effective tomorrow.    The increase brings Marathon's posted price for West TexasIntermediate and West Texas Sour grades to 17.50 dlrs a barrel.    The Light Louisiana grade was also raised 50 cts to 17.85dlrs a barrel. Reuter
RECENT U.S. OIL DEMAND UP 1.9 PCT FROM YEAR AGO U.S. oil demand as measured byproducts supplied rose 1.9 pct in the four weeks ended Marchsix to 16.39 mln barrels per day from 16.08 mln in the sameperiod a year ago, the Energy Information Administration (EIA)said.    In its weekly petroleum status report, the EnergyDepartment agency said distillate demand was down 2.2 pct inthe period to 3.33 mln bpd from 3.40 mln a year earlier.    Gasoline demand averaged 6.75 mln bpd, up 3.3 pct from 6.53mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.40 mln bpd, off2.7 pct from 1.43 mln, the EIA said.    Domestic crude oil production was estimated at 8.38 mlnbpd, down 8.5 pct from 9.15 mln a year ago, and gross dailycrude imports (excluding those for the SPR) averaged 3.67 mlnbpd, up 23 pct from 2.97 mln, the EIA said.    Refinery crude runs in the four weeks were 12.05 mln bpd,up 1.5 pct from 11.87 mln a year earlier, it said.    Year-to-date figures will not become available until March26 when EIA's Petroleum Supply Monthly data for January 1987becomes available, the agency said. Reuter
USX <X> PROVED OIL, GAS RESERVES FALL IN 1986 USX Corp said proved reserves of oiland natural gas liquids fell 28 pct to 802.8 mln barrels at theend of 1986 from 1.12 billion barrels at year-end 1985.    The figures, in USX's just-released 1986 annual report,indicate much of the drop resulted from the exclusion of 293.7mln barrels of Libyan reserves, after the U.S. government lastJune directed U.S. oil companies to end Libyan operations.    USX, which owns Marathon Oil Co and Texas Oil and Gas Corp,had 60 pct of its 1986 sales of 14.94 billion dlrs from its oiland gas operations.    About 24 pct of total sales came from USX's USS steel unitand 16 pct from diversified businesses, which include oilfieldservices, raw materials, minerals, chemicals and real estate.    According to the report, domestic liquids reserves fellslightly to 628.5 mln barrels from 628.9 mln and foreignreserves fell to 174.3 mln from 486.4 mln barrels. The largedrop in foreign reserves was in the Middle East and Africa,where they fell to about 9.3 mln barrels from 316.7 mln,reflecting the exclusion of Libya.    Total natural gas reserves fell to 4.82 trillion cubic feetat year-end 1986 from 5.18 trillion at the end of 1985.    Again, most of the drop came from the Middle East andAfrica, where reserves fell to zero from 71.9 billion cubicfeet, excluding Libyan reserves.    U.S. natural gas reserves fell to 3.44 trillion cubic feetfrom 3.65 trillion and foreign reserves fell to 1.38 trillionfrom 1.53 trillion.    In other areas, USX said total capital spending fell to 962mln dlrs in 1986 from 1.78 billion dlrs in 1985. The 1986audited figure is eight mln dlrs higher than the unauditedfigure the company reported on Jan 27.    USX also said it expects to record a gain of 150 mln dlrsin 1988, representing 50 pct of previously existing investmenttax credits allowable under the new tax law. The loss of theother half of the credits was reflected in the fourth quarter.    In a discussion of steel results, USX said plants that wereshut down last month and some previously idled plants may bepermanently closed. USX took a fourth quarter charge of 1.03billion dlrs to restructure its steel operations. The chargeincluded the "indefinite idling" last month of four plants inUtah, Pennsylvania and Texas.    Other plants or parts of plants in Pennsylvania, Indiana,Alabama, Ohio and Chicago had been previously idled.    "These operations are not permanently shut down. Improvedmarket conditions for the products from these plants may makeit feasible to reopen some of them," USX said in the report.    "On the other hand, a lack of any future market improvementmay necessitate their permanent closing," it added. Reuter
VENEZUELA TO LEND OIL TO ECUADOR FOR EXPORT venezuela will supply ecuador with anas yet undetermined amount of crude oil to help it meet exportcommitments, seriously affected by last week's earthquake,energy and mines minister arturo hernandez grisanti said.    He gave few details about the deal, but said a crude oilloan agreement will be made between state oil companiespetroleos de venezuela (pdvsa) and ecuador's cepe.    Ecuador was forced to suspend oil exports for an expectedfour months after an earthquake damaged a pipeline. Oilaccounts for 60 per cent of its export income.     Hernandez was speaking to reporters at miraflores palaceon the results of talks with ecuador's deputy energy ministerfernando santos alvite, who arrived here last night.    "the volume lent to ecuador would be discounted from itsopec quota and would not affect venezuela's," he said. "we wouldfrom august on produce our own quota and sell the additionalamounts that ecuador would be repaying us," he said.    He did not elaborate on the quota arrangements but did sayecuador would notify opec by telex that venezuela would belending it a certain amount over so many days.    Venezuela's opec output quota is currently 1.495 millionbarrels a day, and ecuador's has been set at 210,000 bpd. Reuter
ECUADOR TO ASK OPEC TO RAISE EXPORT QUOTA Ecuador will ask OPEC to raise its oilexport quota by 100,000 barrels per day to 310,000 tocompensate for lost output due to last week's earthquake,deputy Energy Minister Fernando Santos Alvite said.    Santos Alvite, who arrived in Caracas last night to discussan aid plan for Ecuador, did not say when the Organisation ofPetroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) would be approached.    The additional output would be related to plans now underdiscussion for Venezuela and Mexico to lend Ecuador crude whileit repairs a pipeline damaged by the quake.    Earlier, Venezuelan Energy and Mines Minister AturoHernandez Grisanti said his country would supply an unspecifiedpart of Ecuador's export commitments.    But Santos Alvite told reporters he hoped a first cargo of300,000 barrels could leave Maracaibo this weekend to supplyrefineries near Guayaquil. He added Ecuador also wanted to makeup for 50,000 bpd it shipped to Caribbean destinations. Mexicomight supply Ecuador's South Korean market.    Ecuador may be unable to export oil for up to five monthsdue to extensive damage to a 25 mile stretch of pipelinelinking jungle oilfields to the Pacific port of Balao. REUTER
CHINA CLOSES SECOND ROUND OF OFFSHORE OIL BIDS China has closed the second round ofbidding by foreign firms for offshore oil exploration rights,the China Daily has reported.    It quoted a spokesman for the China National Offshore OilCorp (CNOOC) as saying China signed eight contracts with 15foreign firms for blocks in the Pearl River mouth and southYellow Sea covering a total area of 44,913 sq km.    Second round bidding began at the end of 1984 and only onewell has so far produced results -- Lufeng 13-1-1, 250 kmsouth-east of Shenzhen, with an output of 6,770 barrels a day.The well was drilled by a group of Japanese companies.    The spokesman added CNOOC was ready to enter into contractsfor offshore blocks before third round bidding began. He didnot say when this would be, but added the contracts would notbe bound by restrictions imposed during the second round.    China has signed 36 oil contracts and agreements with 37companies from 10 countries since 1979, when offshoreexploration was open to foreigners. Eleven contracts wereterminated after no oil was discovered.    Foreign firms have invested 2.1 billion dlrs on offshoreChina since 1979. REUTER
CHINA CLOSES SECOND ROUND OF OFFSHORE OIL BIDS China has closed the second round ofbidding by foreign firms for offshore oil exploration rights,the China Daily has reported.    It quoted a spokesman for the China National Offshore OilCorp (CNOOC) as saying China signed eight contracts with 15foreign firms for blocks in the Pearl River mouth and southYellow Sea covering a total area of 44,913 sq km.    Second round bidding began at the end of 1984 and only onewell has so far produced results -- Lufeng 13-1-1, 250 kmsouth-east of Shenzhen, with an output of 6,770 barrels a day.The well was drilled by a group of Japanese companies.    The spokesman added CNOOC was ready to enter into contractsfor offshore blocks before third round bidding began. He didnot say when this would be, but added the contracts would notbe bound by restrictions imposed during the second round.    China has signed 36 oil contracts and agreements with 37companies from 10 countries since 1979, when offshoreexploration was open to foreigners. Eleven contracts wereterminated after no oil was discovered.    Foreign firms have invested 2.1 billion dlrs on offshoreChina since 1979. REUTER
ECUADOR TO ASK OPEC TO RAISE EXPORT QUOTA Ecuador will ask OPEC to raise its oilexport quota by 100,000 barrels per day to 310,000 tocompensate for lost output due to last week's earthquake,deputy Energy Minister Fernando Santos Alvite said.    Santos Alvite, who arrived in Caracas last night to discussan aid plan for Ecuador, did not say when the Organisation ofPetroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) would be approached.    The additional output would be related to plans now underdiscussion for Venezuela and Mexico to lend Ecuador crude whileit repairs a pipeline damaged by the quake.    Earlier, Venezuelan Energy and Mines Minister AturoHernandez Grisanti said his country would supply an unspecifiedpart of Ecuador's export commitments.    But Santos Alvite told reporters he hoped a first cargo of300,000 barrels could leave Maracaibo this weekend to supplyrefineries near Guayaquil. He added Ecuador also wanted to makeup for 50,000 bpd it shipped to Caribbean destinations. Mexicomight supply Ecuador's South Korean market.    Ecuador may be unable to export oil for up to five monthsdue to extensive damage to a 25 mile stretch of pipelinelinking jungle oilfields to the Pacific port of Balao. REUTER
DUNE RESOURCES <DNLAF> RESERVES ROSE IN 1986 Dune Resources Ltd said its oilreserves increased 225 pct during 1986 while its natural gasreserves were up six pct.    The company said its proven oil reserves were estimated at605,682 barrels on December 31, up from 186,655 barrels a yearearlier boosted by discoveries during the year put at 423,659barrels.    It said gas reserves rose to 8.8 mln cubic feet from 8.3mln on Dec 31, 1985, as discoveries of nearly 1.3 mln cubicfeet were partialy offset by production of 287,391 cubic feetand downward revisions of previous estimates totaling 491,694cubic feet. Reuter
SAUDI SUPERTANKER REPORTED HIT BY IRAN OFF UAE Iran attacked the Saudi Arabiansupertanker Arabian Sea off the United Arab Emirates last nightbut the vessel was able to proceed after the incident, LloydsShipping Intelligence reported.    The 315,695-dwt Arabian Sea had set sail on Tuesday afterloading oil at the Saudi port of Ras Tannurah. Lloyds said theattack occurred at about 2200 hrs local time (1800 GMT). Reuter
MOST JAPAN FIRMS NOT RENEWING IRAN TERM CONTRACTS Most Japanese companies have decided notto renew term contracts to lift Iranian crude oil because spotprices remain considerably lower than OPEC's official levels,industry sources said.    They said a cargo of the Mideast benchmark crude Dubaitraded yesterday at 16.50 dlrs a barrel, compared to itsofficial price of 17.42 dlrs.    Only one Japanese company has renewed its term contract forIranian crude oil for the second quarter, the sources said.    The sources said Japanese companies had been lifting atotal of about 185,000 barrels per day (bpd) of Iranian crudeunder term contracts, but only one firm has agreed to lift inthe second quarter. It is lifting just 10,000 to 15,000 bpd.    They said this move could inspire Iran to offer discountson cargoes loading in April, but the likelihood of discountsdepended largely on the levels of spot prices.    "If the spot price of Dubai goes above 17.30 dlrs we wouldprobably buy Iranian crude at the official price," one Japaneserefiner said.    "We don't intend to put pressure on them," he added.    Buyers have little incentive to renew contracts to lift oilat official OPEC prices while spot prices on all grades areconsiderably lower, oil traders said.    They said if spot prices move higher there will be noproblem finding OPEC crude to purchase at the official prices.Qatar has chartered floating storage for its crude oil afterfinding no buyers at official prices in March. The problem islikely to recur in April, adding to that country's surplus.    The traders added that Iraq had dissociated itself fromOPEC's December production agreement, while agreeing to thefixed prices.    But oil analysts said if OPEC keeps group output close toits first-half 1987 ceiling of 15.8 mln bpd, supply and demandwould be balanced by the end of the second quarter.    They also said if OPEC holds its official price structurebased on a reference price of 18 dlrs, spot price fluctuationsshould be limited to a 16.50 to 17.20 dlrs range for Dubai anda 17 to 18 dlrs range for the North Sea's Brent blend.    One Japanese refiner said, "At the moment there's a lot ofpressure on OPEC, particularly on Qatar. But if they hold outthere will be no problem, and I'm beginning to trust theirability."    Nigerian oil minister and OPEC president Rilwanu Lukmantold a news conference in Lagos yesterday, "Nigeria and allmember countries of OPEC remain determined to uphold theDecember agreement by adhering strictly to their various quotasand official selling prices."    He said OPEC believed consumers had drawn heavily on stocksof both crude oil and refined products, reducing them to levelswell below this time last year. He said consumers would soonreturn to the market in search of crude.    A Japanese refiner said, "The European and U.S. Markets arebeginning to look better so OPEC might be quite lucky."
PHILLIPS <P> TO EMPHASIZE CASH FLOW TO PARE DEBT Phillips Petroleum Co will emphasizeimproving its short-term cash flow this year to pare its debt,C.J. "Pete" Silas, chairman, told Reuters in an interview.    "Our priority is to get cash flow increased from the assetsalready installed," he said, but he declined to estimate annualcash flow for 1987.    Analysts estimate Phillips" cash flow at over one billiondlrs for 1987, while long term debt, which resulted fromrestructuring to find off corporate raiders in 1985, hoversabout 5.9 billion dlrs as of December 1986.     Silas said Phillips hope to achieve its goal by raisingthe capital expenditures budget to develop its oil and gasproperties.    "We plan to develop the properties with short-term high cashflow prospects," he said. He projected a capital expenditurebudget of 730 mln dlrs, up from the 1986 expenditure of 655 mlndlrs.    Nearly half of that will be spent on exploration andproduction, and most of that will be spend overseas, Silassaid.    "Phillips' top priority in 1987 will be to get thewaterflooding in Norway and jack up the (Ekofisk) oil fields toimprove our ability to extract oil and increase earnings," Silassaid.     Phillips estimates that the project, which is expected tocost 1.5 billion dlrs, will increase recovery by 170 mln grossbarrels of oil over a period of 24 years.    Phillips is also pursue opportunities in China where Silassaid he was seeking "a modification of terms with the Chinesegovernment to make oil discoveries (in the offshore Xijangfields) commercially viable."    In the U.S. Silas said Phillips hopes to get the PointArguello, Calif., field started up by the fourth quarter. "Weexpect to start up the first platform then," Silas said.    But emphasis on short-term cash flow has also forced thecompany to part with several oil and gas assets.    Phillips sold its interests in the T-Block in the U.K.North Sea and U.S. reserves totaling about 1.3 billion dlrs in1986 as part of a two billion dlrs asset sales program that isnow completed, Silas said.     "We sold high cost producing assets. They were not goodvalue for us but possibly so for someone else," Silas said.    Silas said the 1986 assets sales will not affect earningsfor the company.    "Everything we are doing is to manage our cash flow and weare using that to manage our debt. Even the asset sales, whileregrettable, were necessary to reduce debt," Silas said.    He said no asset sales are planned this year as long as oilprices don't fall sharply lower and stay at lower levels  forseveral months. "Then, everyone would be looking at sales (ofassets), and we're no different from the others," Silas said.    In other areas, Silas looks for improved earnings fromPhillips chemical operations, which provided 299 mln dlrs inearnings for 1986, up from 219 mln dlrs in 1985.    "This was our second best year pushed by a good supply anddemand balance for products, low feedstocks and energy costsfor our operations," Silas said, "In 1987 we think the market'ssupply and demand balance will be just as good but feedstockand energy costs will rise due to price recovery." Reuter
SAUDI OUTPUT SAID AT YEAR LOW TO HELP OPEC Saudi Arabian oil output has fallen toits lowest level in more than a year, giving fresh evidence ofthe kingdom's determination to keep oil prices at 18 dlrs abarrel, as agreed by Opec last December, oil industry sourcessaid.    They said Saudi output in the first eight days of Marchaveraged 2.6 mln barrels per day (bpd) including oil from theneutral zone shared with Kuwait, compared to a February averageof 3.5 mln bpd.    They said Saudi Arabia was also selling oil from its crudeoil stocks in tankers around the world, which OPEC says must becounted towards a member's production quota. Saudi Arabia'squota is 4.133 mln bpd.    The lower production levels indicated Saudi Arabia, theworld"s largest oil exporter, was insisting on getting Opecofficial prices, even at the cost of lower production, thesources said.    King Fahd reiterated yesterday, in an interview withReuters and the television news agency Visnews, the Saudicommitment to OPEC's December pact to boost oil prices to anaverage 18 dlrs.    "Saudi Arabia is completely sticking to OPEC decisions," hesaid.    The sources said the kingdom's exports from Gulf portsaveraged one mln bpd during the eight days ending last Sunday,down from a February average of 1.9 mln bpd.    They said Saudi Arabia was allowing production to fluctuatewith lifting nominations and was not trying to maintainartificially high levels by putting oil into storage.    The kingdom's main buyers, the four U.S. Oil firms withpast stakes in the national oil company Aramco -- Mobil, Exxon,Texaco and Chevron -- enjoy considerable flexibility in thetiming and volume of their liftings but are bound to payofficial prices, the sources said.    Spot market prices have firmed in the past two weeks butstill remain below OPEC levels and major buyers have delayedliftings in the hope they would improve, the sources said.    They expected low early March output to pick up towards theend of the month as buyers sought to fulfill their contractualobligations. REUTER
UNION PACIFIC <UNP> TO SELL PART OF REFINERY Union Pacific Corp said it will sign apact in Caracas on March 17 with Petroleos De Venezuela, PDVSA,to sell the state owned company half of its Corpus Christi,Texas refinery owned by its Union Pacific's Champlin PetroleumCo subsidiary.    The sale will also include the related marketing anddistribution system for the refinery's products.    A spokesman for the company said that a statement may beissued later today giving details of the transaction.    There was no immediate comment from PDVSA officials in NewYork.    The Corpus Christi refinery has a capacity of about 160,000barrels per day, the Union Pacific spokesman said, and is alargely upgraded facility but he would place no value on thetransaction.    The additional acquisition of refinery and distributionassets by PDVSA has been expected as Venezuela has been movingaggressively to enhance its role in the oil industry fromproducer to excpanding its presence in the downstream sector.    Purchase of part of Champlin's operations also fits aprofile which PDVSA officials have said previously they lookedfor in any acquisition.    One PDVSA official said the company was looking forindependent oil companies with good refinery and distributionnetwork and a strong regional presence.    The potential purchase of the interest in Champlin followedits earlier acquisition of a part interest in Southland Corp's<SLC> Citgo Petroleum Corp subsidiary.    In that agreement signed September 15, 1986, PDVSA paidSouthland 290 mln dlrs for half of Citgo's stock.    The potetnital acquisition of half Champlin's CorpusChristi plant will also give Venezuela an additional outlet forits crude oil production while giving the refiner an assuredsource of supply, trade sources said.    In the earlier deal with Southland, PDVSA agredd to tosupply Citgo with at least 130,000 bpd of crude oil and otherfeedstocks. Reuter
MOBIL <MOB> TO RESTRUCTURE EXPLORATION UNIT Mobil Oil Corp said it willrestructure its Dallas-based Mobil Exploration and ProducingServices Inc operations April one, to provide strongertechnological support to its U.S. and overseas operations.    Mobil said the operation will consist of two new units,Technical Services and Application Technology, along with theexisting Drilling and New Exploration Ventures groups. It saidR.C. Mills, president and general manager of its Explorationand Producing Southeast Inc, has been named vice president andgeneral manager of the new operation reporting to P.J.Hoenmans, president of its Exploration and Producing division. Reuter
WILDLIFE UNIT PROPOSES ALASKA REFUGE OIL STUDY The National Wildlife Federation rejected an Interior Department draft plan to open wildernesslands in Northern Alaska to oil and gas exploration.    The federation, the nation's largest conservation group,said further study was needed to assess any possible damagethat development might have on the wildlife in the area, thecoastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.    Jay Hair, the federation's executive vice president, calledthe Interior's research into the effects of development "sofundamentally flawed that it provides little or no basis onwhich to make a public policy decision."    Hair called the department's proposal a "reflection of alargely political decision," adding "we have no confidence inInterior to represent the broad public interest in this area."    Interior wants to open the 1.5 million acre coastal plainto oil and gas exploration, but it said only with tough safeguards to protect the area's caribou and musk-oxen.    It said a preliminary survey showed the region could holdbillions of barrels of oil and gas, and that its potential asan energy resource would never be known without exploration.    Interior said oil on the coastal plain could match the 10billion barrels found at Prudhoe Bay, just west of the plain.    Under existing law, Congress must agree to oil and gasexploration, and if it does not act, the land will remain awildlife refuge protected from commercial development.    Hair said Interior's report failed to stress theprobability that finding recoverable oil is only 19 pct.    He said Interior's study also failed to weigh oil, gas,fish and wildlife information the State of Alaska had gatherednor had the department consulted the Environmental ProtectionAgency on the possible effects of exploration.    The federation, in letters to Congressmen, proposed that anine-member commission be set up to study all aspects of theissue and report back to Congress in about two years.    Hair said the federation was not opposed to the possibleexploration of oil, only that Interior's study was inadquate tomake a sound judgement.    Congressional observers said that at present there waslittle sentiment in Congress to open the wildlife area forcommercial exploitation dispite increasing concern that theUnited States is becoming overly dependent on foreign oil. reuter
SOLV-EX <SOLV> SHELL CANADA <SHC> PACT COMPLETE Solv-Ex Corp said itsuccessfully completed its oil sands pilot testing programunder its agreement with Shell Canada Limited <SHC> andreceived a 250,000 U.S. dlr bonus payment.    It also said that Shell Canada exercised its option to takeover Solv-Ex's 25 pct working interest in the construction ofthe oil facility, relieving it of its obligation to raise about62.5 mln Canadian dlrs for plant construction.    It said 30 pct of that loan was guaranteed by theGovernment of Alberta.    In exchange for Shell's participation, Solv-Ex said Shellis obligated to pay it an up-front royalty and a runningroyalty based on the operating profits of the oil sandsfacility. It said the Shell Canada 7,500 barrel per day oilsands project will be built on Shell's oil sand lease about 40miles north of Fort McMurray in the Athabasca region ofnorthern Alberta.    Solv-Ex said the project will cost about 260 mln Canadiandlrs. It said that following a final feasibility study theplant should open in the early 1990s when oil prices areexpected to exceed 20 U.S. dlrs per barrel. Reuter
UNION PACIFIC <UNP> IN PARTNERSHIP WITH PDVSA Union Pacific Corp said it will entera 50-50 partnership with Petroles de Venezuela, PDVSA, to ownand operate Union Pacific's 160,000 barrel-per-day CorpusChristi, Texas, oil refinery.    The assests to be acquired by the partnership are valued at190 mln dlrs, Union Pacific said.    Closing is expected to take place in early April and theventure is to be called Champlin Refining Co.    The partnership will acquire the refining and distributionsystems currently owned and operated by Champlin Petroleum, awholly owned subsidiary of Union Pacific.    The venture will acquire the related inventories and theChamplin trade name, the company said.    PDVSA and Union Pacific will each contribute half thecapital required by the venture and arrange a revolving creditfacility with U.S. and foreign banks to finance inventories andreceivables, Union Pacific said.    Petroles de Venezuela also signed a 25-year agreement tosupply at least 140,000 bpd of Venezulean crude oil and naphthato the refinery at market related prices.    Under various options the in the agreement PDVSA couldsupply another 50,000 bpd on similar terms, the company said.    "This will provide a stable, long-term supply to therefinery at competitive costs, thereby assuring the economicviability of the plant," a statement issued by Union Pacificsaid.   The statement said the agreement with PDVSA will enable thecompany to supply a steady flow of refined products to itscustomers.   Union Pacific said employees of the refinery would betransfered to the new company and would retain the samebenefits as in the past. Reuter
POWERINE REFINERY TO RESUME OPERATIONS <Powerine Oil Co> saidits refinery here will resume operation today, with initialcrude oil runs of 20,000 barrels per day.    Powerine, a privately-held company, said it expects therefinery to become fully operational by May, with crude oilthroughput at 35,000 bpd.    Initial oil products deliveries are scheduled for Monday,Powerine said. The refinery had been closed due to a change ofownership, the company said. Reuter
MONTEDISON, OTHER REFINERIES TO SHUT FOR WORK Selm-Societa Energia Montedison is toclose its Priolo crude refining units from March 15th to March28th for maintenance, a company spokesman said.    Throughput at the refinery is currently estimated at140-150,000 bpd, although total capacity is nearer 200,000 bpd.    Several other Mediterranean refineries are currentlyshutdown for maintenance, most of which were scheduled somemonths ago. But industry sources said that shutdowns may havebeen rearranged to avoid running negative-netback crude.     Tighter availabilities of products as a result of the shutdowns in the Med is helping to keep products marketsbullish, particularly for March deliveries, oil traders said.    Garrone's refinery at San Quirico (capacity 130,000 bpd) isdue to shutdown on March 14th for three weeks, and thejointly-owned ISAB/Garrone refinery at Mellili, capacity220,000 bpd, is due to start up around March 20-25th followingits closure for maintenance a month ago, a company spokesmansaid.    The Esso Italiana refineries at Augusta and Siracusa willnot be closing this spring, a spokesman for the company said.    In France, the distillation unit at Societe Francaise deBP's Lavera refinery has been closed for maintenance sinceMarch 2, and is due to restart early April. Total capacity is181,900 bpd. It is currently operating at around 50 pctcapacity, a company spokesman said.    Shell Francaise's Berre l'Etang refinery will shut down inearly April until mid-June, a company spokesman said. Capacityis around 150,000 bpd. Compagnie Francaise de Raffinage (CFR)will close the visbreaker at its La Mede refinery in earlyApril, but would not affect crude throughput at the refinery, acompany spokesman said. Current capacity is 136,000 bbl/day.    Despite current bullish sentiment in the Med, however,traders noted that crude netbacks are beginning to look moreattractive, and most maintenance shutdowns should be finishedin two to three weeks.    As a result, oil industry sources suggest that thesituation may ease by mid-April. Reuter
ATTACKS AFFECT COLOMBIA'S OIL OUTLOOK-ECOPETROL Continuous rebel raids against oilpipelines and foreign exploration camps endanger Colombia'spresent oil bonanza, Franciso Chona, manager of the state-runoil company Ecopetrol said.    "It seems the subversion wants to end with our oil bonanza,"he told reporters.    He was speaking after a meeting with Defense MinisterRafael Samudio, military chiefs and Mines and Energy MinisterGuillermo Perry to review the security situation in the lightof a recent upsurge of leftist guerrilla attacks in theoil-rich Arauca region, bordering Venezuela.    Ecopetrol chief of security, Retired General CarlosNarvaez, said security measures would be stricter and that thearmed forces were closely collaborating but gave no details.    Samudio said new plans had been designed and hoped theywould be effective. Samudio stressed that, despite the mostrecent attacks, which cost more than four mln dlrs in damage,the overall situation had improved compared with last Decemberwhen initial measures were taken to combat a wave of attacks.    Repeated bombings of a vital pipeline from the Cano Limonoilfield to the Caribbean then led to a loss of 51,000 barrelsof crude. Reuter
IPCO CORP <IHS> SETS REGULAR PAYOUT Qtrly div nine cts vs nine cts prior    Pay May 1    Record April 9 Reuter
SUN <SUN> RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS 50 CTS Sun Co said it raised the contractprice it will pay for crude oil 50 cts a barrel, effectivetoday.    The increase brings Sun's posted price for the West TexasIntermediate and West Texas Sour grades to 17.50 dlrs/bbl. TheLight Louisiana Sweet grade was also raised 50 cts to 17.85dlrs/bbl.    Sun Co last changed its crude postings on March 4. Reuter
DIAMOND SHAMROCK RAISED CRUDE BY 50 CTS/BBL TODAY. WTI UP TO 17. Essex Chemical Corp said it filed withthe Securities and Exchange Commission a registration statementcovering a 60 mln dlr issue of convertivble subordinateddebentures due 2012.    Proceeds will be used to redeem the company's outstanding11-3/8 pct subordinated debentures due 1998 and repay all longand short-term notes payable to banks, as well as for workingcapital, Essex Chemical said.    The company named Thomson McKinnon Securities Inc as leadmanager and PaineWebber Inc as co-manager of the offering. Reuter
PHILLIPS RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS 50 CTS EFFECTIVE TODAY, WTI TO 17.50  The number of seismic crewssearching for oil and gas in the United States dropped by nineto a total of 151 crews, a decrease of six pct from January,the Society of Exploration Geophysicists said.    The February total represented a 49 pct decrease fromFebruary 1986.    Worldwide, the association's monthly survey showed thatseismic exploration for oil and gas increased to 395 inFebruary, up three from the month before. Africa added threeseismic crews, the Middle East increased by two and the FarEast added one while reductions were reported in Central andSouth America, Europe and the United States. Reuter
HOUSE SPEAKER BACKS OIL IMPORT FORECAST PLAN House Speaker Jim Wright endorsed aproposal to require the president to take action to reduce oilimports if they threaten to top 50 pct of U.S. consumption.    Wright told reporters the plan by Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, afellow Texas Democrat, was positive and useful. Oil importspeaked in 1977 at 47 pct, were short of 36 pct last year andthis year are up over 40 pct, Bentsen said.     The Bentsen proposal, supported by 24 other Senators, wouldwould require the president to issue annual three-year oilimport forecasts. In any year they threatened to top 50 pct, hewould be ordered to propose quotas or other solution.    Reuter
UNOCAL RAISES MOST CRUDE PRICES 50 CTS, TODAY, WTI AT 17 Qtly div 51 cts vs 51 cts prior    Pay April one    Record March 23 Reuter
PERMIAN BASIN <PBT> PROVEN RESERVES FALL Permian Basin Royalty Trustsaid that as of December 31, 1986, its estimated provedreserves totaled 18.5 mln barrels of oil and 52.9 mln MCF, orthousand cubic feet, of gas.    This compares with yearend 1985 proved reserves estimatesof 26.4 mln barrels of oil and 78.6 mln MCF of gas, Permiansaid.    Permian said December 1986 future net revenues from provedreserves were 335.6 mln dlrs, down from 814.2 mln dlrs in 1985.    Permian said the present value of estimated future netrevenues discounted at 10 pct is 165.3 mln dlrs, compared with374.3 mln dlrs.    It said the downward revisions in both proved reserves andestimated future net revenues resulted from decreased prices foroil and gas. Reuter
UNOCAL <UCL> RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS Unocal Corp said it raised thecontract price it will pay for most grades of crude oil 50 ctsa barrel, effective today.    The increase brings Unocal's posted price for the U.S.benchmark grade West Texas Intermediate to 17.50 dlrs a barrel.It also brought the price for West Texas Sour to 17.50 dlrs abbl. Light Louisiana Sweet was also raised 50 cts to 17.85dlrs/bbl.    Unocal last changed its crude postings on March four, andbrings it price in line with other major companies, which havebeen raising prices steadily in recent weeks.    The increase also represents the latest in a series ofincreases that began with USX Corp's <X> Marathon PetroleumCorp's notification yesterday evening that, effective today, itraised its crude postings 50 cts a barrel, bringing itscontract price for WTI to 17.50 dlrs a barrel.    Earlier today, Sun Co <SUN>, Phillips Petroleum <P> andDiamond Shamrock <DIA> also said they raised their crudepostings 50 cts a barrel, bringing their WTI contract price to17.50 dlrs a barrel.    Contract prices have risen in response to higher spotmarket prices, oil traders said. Reuter
CITGO RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS 50 CTS, TODAY, WTI TO 17.50  Baird Corp <BATM> said theMassachusetts State Court for Suffolk County has lifted a  temporary restraining order prohibiting Mark IV Industries Incfrom further purchases of Baird stock.    According to filings with the Securities and ExchangeCommission, Mark IV owns at least 17.6 pct of Baird's stock andmay attempt to acquire Baird, Baird said.    Baird said the court also issued an order enjoining Bairdfrom enforcing the Massachusetts Anti-Takeover Statute againstMark IV industries. Reuter
SOUTHLAND <SLC> UNIT RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS Southland Corp's Citgo Petroleum Corpsaid it raised the contract price it will pay for crude oil 50cts a barrel, effective today.    The increase bring's Citgo's posted price for the WestTexas Intermediate and West Texas Sour grades to 17.50 dlrs abarrel. The Light Louisiana Sweet South Onshore grade was alsoraised 50 cts to 17.85 dlrs a barrel, and Light Louisiana SweetNorth was increased to 17.75 dlrs a barrel.    Citgo last changed its postings on March four. Reuter
SAN JUAN BASIN <SJT> PROVEN RESERVES FALL The San Juan Basin RoyaltyTrust said proved reserves as of December 31 were estimated at283.1 thousand cubic feet of gas and 1,087,000 barrels of oil.    In the year-ago period, it said proved reserves wereestimated at 346.4 thousand cubic feet of gas  and 1,974,000barrels of oil.    It said the present value of future net revenues discounted10 pct was 156.2 mln dlrs compared with 446.8 mln dlrs in theyear-ago period.    It also said that about 60 net infill wells are noteconomical to drill at December 31 prices. Reuter
BRAZIL CANCELS OIL PURCHASE FROM SAUDI ARABIA Brazil's state-oil company,Petrobras, cancelled a 40 mln dlr crude oil purchase from SaudiArabia after the Saudis refused to accept credit guaranteesfrom the Bank of Brazil, a Petrobras official said.    Export director Carlos Santana told a press conference theSaudis were the first suppliers of oil to impose suchconditions after Brazil's decision to halt interest payment ofits commercial debts last month.    The shipment of 2.2 mln barrels represents two days of oilconsumption in Brazil.    But Santana said if the Saudis change their minds anddecide to respect the terms of the contract, then Petrobraswill lift the order to cancel the shipment.    Santana said if the Saudis do not accept Brazil's terms byMonday then Petrobras will negotiate elsewhere.    "Petrobras has been Saudi Arabia's traditional client since1955. If they do not accept our conditions now, it will be muchbetter for us, because with the market prices more or less thesame, buying from Iraq and China is an advantage," he said.    Iraq and China have barter deals with Brazil, importingBrazilian goods in exchange for oil, but the Saudis buy nothingfrom Brazil, he said.    Santana said despite a strike threat by oil industryworkers and a two-week stoppage by Brazilian seamen, Petrobrasoil stocks are "reasonably balanced."     Saudi Arabia is Brazil's second biggest oil supplier, withan average 115,000 bpd. Iraq is the main supplier with 235,000bpd. China comes third, with 58,000 bpd.    "If the Saudis wish to stop our trade relationship, fine, Iam sure that if they do, we will be getting dozens of offersfrom elsewhere," Santana added. Reuter
INDIA GETS 140 MLN DLR WORLD BANK LOAN The World Bank said it has approveda 140 mln dlr loan for India to help lessen that country'sdependence on imported oil and spur development of its ownpetroleum resources.    The bank said the loan will be used to boost production byinjecting gas in the partially depleted Assam oil fields and toassist exploration in other areas, including drilling 10exploratory wells.    The bank said the recipient of the 20-year loan will be OilIndia Ltd (OIL), which is the smaller of two public Indianpetroleum exploration and production companies. Reuter
INDIA GETS 140 MLN DLR WORLD BANK LOAN The World Bank said it approved a140 mln dlr loan for India to help lessen that country'sdependence on imported oil and spur development of its ownpetroleum resources.    The bank said the loan will be used to boost production byinjecting gas in the partially depleted Assam oil fields and toassist exploration in other areas, including drilling 10exploratory wells.    The bank said the recipient of the 20-year loan will be OilIndia Ltd (OIL), which is the smaller of two public Indianpetroleum exploration and production companies. Reuter
VENEZUELA TO LEND ECUADOR 50,000 BPD OF CRUDE Venezuela will lend Ecuador 50,000barrels per day of crude oil over the next few months to helpit meet its export commitments, Energy and Mines MinisterArturo Hernandez Grisanti said today.    He said that under the terms of this loan, agreed during avisit here this week by Ecuador's Deputy Energy MinisterFernando Santos Alvite, Ecuador will begin repaying the loan inAugust.    Hernandez Grisanti said the loan will go part way tooffsetting the loss of Ecuador's 140,000 in exports caused byearthquake damage to 25 miles of pipeline last week.    Ecuador was forced to suspend exports after the pipelineconnecting its jungle oil fields with the pacific port of Balaowas put out of action.    Venezuela has an output quota of 1.495 bpd, while Ecuador'sis 210,000 bpd. Santos Alvite said Ecuador will ask OPEC toallow it to produce 100,000 bpd above its quota when thepipeline is repaired to offset present production losses.    Hernandez Grisanti said also a first 300,000 barrelsshipment of Venezuelan crude oil will leave for Ecuador thisweekend to help meet domestic consumption needs.    The oil, part of a five mln additional crude oil loan byVenezuela, will be processed at Guayaquil refineries.    "If we had not supplied oil to Ecuador the life of thiscountry would have ground to a halt," he said. Reuter
Opec deliberately under 15.8 mln barrel ceiling to defend price - <County Ltd>, which is acting in concertwith Tesco Plc <TSCO.L> in its 151.4 mln stg for supermarketchain operator <Hillards Plc>, has purchased 300,000 Hillardsordinary shares at 316p per share, a statement said.    These purchases, together with those made by County on 10March, represent about 4.8 pct of Hillards issued ordinaryshare capital, it said.    Tesco's offer, made on March 10, values each Hillardsordinary share at 305.5p, a 37.6 pct premium over the previousday's  closing price. A cash alternative of 290.55p will bemade available. REUTER
SUBROTO SEES OIL MARKET CONTINUING BULLISH Indonesian Energy Minister Subroto saidhe sees the oil market continuing bullish, with underlyingdemand expected to rise later in the year.    He told a press conference in Jakarta at the end of atwo-day meeting of South-East Asian Energy Ministers that hesaw prices stabilizing around 18 dlrs a barrel.    "The sentiment in the market is bullish and I think it willcontinue that way as demand will go up in the third or fourthquarters," Subroto said.    Asked about the prospect for oil prices, he said: "I thinkthey will stabilise around 18 dlrs, although there is a littleturbulence ..."    "Of course the spot price will fluctuate, but the officialprice will remain at 18 dlrs," he added. REUTER
OPEC DEFENDING 18 DLR PRICE, SUBROTO SAYS Indonesian Energy Minister Subroto saidOPEC is deliberately under its production ceiling of 15.8 mlnbarrels to defend its 18 dlr a barrel price target.    He told reporters at an energy conference in Jakarta thatOPEC had decided to maintain its price level of 18 dlrs.    "We are deliberately defending the price, so OPEC productionis less than 15.8 (mln) at the moment," he stated.    Asked if OPEC would increase production if prices wentabove 18 dlrs a barrel, he said this would be decided at thenext OPEC meeting in June. "We will discuss the market situationthen," he added.    He said a meeting of the OPEC Differentials Committee hadbeen postponed because "there is no need for the meeting."    He did not elaborate. The committee had originally been dueto meet in Vienna this week. REUTER
PETROBRAS CANCELS OIL PURCHASE FROM SAUDI ARABIA Brazil's state oil companyPetrobras has cancelled a 40 mln dlr crude oil purchase fromSaudi Arabia after the Saudis refused to accept creditguarantees from the Bank of Brazil and did not disclosereasons, a Petrobras official said.    Export director Carlos Santana told reporters the Saudiswere the first suppliers of oil to impose such conditions afterBrazil's decision to halt interest payment of its commercialdebts last month. The shipment of 2.2 mln barrels representstwo days of consumption.    He said the Saudis reported they would no longer acceptletters of credit from the Bank of Brazil or even from Saudibanks and that Brazil would have to obtain credit guaranteesfrom leading international banks.    In February, Brazil had contracted to buy 125,000 bpd fromthe Saudis until June. Saudi Arabia is Brazil's second biggestoil supplier, with an average 115,000 bpd. Iraq is the mainsupplier with 235,000 bpd. China comes third, with 58,000 bpd.    "If the Saudis wish to stop our trade relationship...I amsure that if they do, we will be getting dozens of offers fromelsewhere," Santana added.    Santana said if the Saudis change their minds and decide torespect the terms of the contract, then Petrobras will lift theorder to cancel the shipment.    The Saudis had put similar conditions on a previousshipment, he added. "We telexed them saying that if theyinsisted, we would rather cancel the contract and buy theproduct elsewhere," Santana said.    After Petrobras threatened to cancel the contract, theSaudis changed their minds and decided to accept the Bank ofBrazil's credit guarantees, he said. REUTER
SUBROTO SEES OIL MARKET CONTINUING BULLISH Indonesian Energy Minister Subroto saidhe sees the oil market continuing bullish, with underlyingdemand expected to rise later in the year.    He told a press conference in Jakarta at the end of atwo-day meeting of South-East Asian Energy Ministers that hesaw prices stabilizing around 18 dlrs a barrel.    "The sentiment in the market is bullish and I think it willcontinue that way as demand will go up in the third or fourthquarters," Subroto said.    Asked about the prospect for oil prices, he said: "I thinkthey will stabilise around 18 dlrs, although there is a littleturbulence ..."    "Of course the spot price will fluctuate, but the officialprice will remain at 18 dlrs," he added. REUTER
OPEC DEFENDING 18 DLR PRICE, SUBROTO SAYS Indonesian Energy Minister Subroto saidOPEC is deliberately under its production ceiling of 15.8 mlnbarrels to defend its 18 dlr a barrel price target.    He told reporters at an energy conference in Jakarta thatOPEC had decided to maintain its price level of 18 dlrs.    "We are deliberately defending the price, so OPEC productionis less than 15.8 (mln) at the moment," he stated.    Asked if OPEC would increase production if prices wentabove 18 dlrs a barrel, he said this would be decided at thenext OPEC meeting in June. "We will discuss the market situationthen," he added.    He said a meeting of the OPEC Differentials Committee hadbeen postponed because "there is no need for the meeting."    He did not elaborate. The committee had originally been dueto meet in Vienna this week. REUTER
WEATHER CLOSES ALEXANDRIA PORT, SUMED OIL TERMINAL Strong winds and high seasforced the closure of Egypt's main port of Alexandria and anearby oil terminal, port officials said.    Tanker loading at the Suez-Mediterranean Arab PetroleumPipelines Co in Sedi Kerir, southwest of here, stopped andofficials said five tankers were at anchorage awaiting improvedweather. Reuter
SHELL CANADA RAISES CRUDE PRICES BY 64 CANADIAN CTS/BBL TODAY AT  Haiti's agriculture ministeryesterday announced his department will permit the importationof 730 black Creole pigs, which had been banned from the islandnation since 1983.    Between 1981 and 1983, a team of Canadian veterinariansfunded by the United States, Canada, Mexico and Costa Ricasupervised the slaughter of all Haiti's 1,200,000 pigs under aprogram to eradicate African swine flu.    Today's announcement that Catholic Relief Services(CARITAS) can import 730 Jamaican pigs comes after months ofprotests by farmers who had owned 90 pct of the slaughteredpigs. Reuter
ORS SEEKS CANADIAN FUNDS FOR HEAVY OIL TEST <ORS Corp> said <DominionSecurities (Alberta) Inc> has been appointed to offer commonshares in a new Canadaina company being organized to exploitheavy oil production opportunities in Canada and WesternEurope.    ORS said the offer for private sale of the stock being madeon a best efforts basis is designed to raise five mln Canadiandlrs which the new company will invest in properties andprojects using the Electromagnetic Well Stimulation Processdeveloped by IIT Research Institute under sponsorship of ORS. Reuter
PETROBRAS ASKS ARMY TO WITHDRAW TROOPS Brazil's state-oil companyPetrobras has asked the Army to withdraw the troops which wereoccupying its oil installations since Tuesday, Petrobras saidin a statement.    The statement said the request for the withdrawal of thetroops was made because of the calmness reigning in all of itsrefineries.    "The request was also due to the end of the seamen's strikeand the willingness of the oil industry workers to sit again bythe negotiating table," the statement said.    Even though the Petrobras statement said the seamen'sstrike was over, a union spokesman said only two small shippingcompanies had reached a pay agreement. The overwhelmingmajority of Brazil's seamen remained on strike.    The statement said a meeting between Petrobras and oilindustry leaders was set for next Wednesday in Rio, with thepresence of Labour Minister Almir Pazzionotto as a mediator.    Petrobras said the request for the withdrawal of the troopswas made at 1100 local hours (1400 GMT), but a companyspokesman said he did not know if the troops had already beenremoved. Reuter
BRAZILIAN TROOPS TO LEAVE OIL REFINERIES Brazil's labour troubles eased alittle today as the authorities announced they were withdrawingtroops from the country's main oil installations occupied threedays ago.    The troops went in at the request of the state-oil companyPetrobras because of the threat of a strike by 55,000 oilindustry employees.    Petrobras said in a statement today it had requested thewithdrawal of the troops. The situation in the refineries wascalm, it said, and the employees had indicated theirwillingness to negotiate a pay deal.    A national seamen's strike, however, continued and marinesremained in the country's main ports. The marines weredespatched to the ports after the seamen's strike, now twoweeks old, was ruled illegal last Friday.    A spokesman at the national strike headquarters in Rio deJaneiro said today a total of l63 ships were strike-bound, 135in Brazil and 28 in foreign ports.    Yesterday two small companies specialised in the transportof chemicals, Global and Flumar, struck a pay accord with theirseamen who have secured a 120 pct increase.    Brazilian newspapers today hailed these agreements as asign that the national strike could soon come to an end.    Both companies employ fewer than 200 seamen and unionleaders said the vast majority of Brazil's 40,000 seamen werestill on strike.    The threat of a stoppage by oil industry employees appearedtoday to be receding. Petrobras said in its statement that thecompany would meet union leaders for pay talks in Rio deJaneiro next Wednesday.    Labour Minister Almir Pazzionotto would act as a mediator.    Besides industrial troubles, there has also beenconsiderable unrest this week in the agricultural sector.    On Tuesday hundreds of thousands of farmers held ralliesthroughout the country to protest against high interest rates.    Television reports showed some of these protests stillcontinuing today, with farmers blockading banks with theirvehicles in several towns in the states of Sao Paulo andParana.    The strikes in Brazil come as the government is trying toextricate itself from a serious debt crisis brought on by adeterioration in its trade balance.    On February 20 President Jose Sarney announced that Brazilwas suspending interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of debt toprivate banks.    Because of the seamen strike exports are being delayed andthe country is losing badly needed foreign exchange. Reuter
ECUADOR BEGINS WORK ON OIL PIPELINE TO COLOMBIA Construction workers today began buildinga 26 km (16 mile) pipeline to link Ecuador's jungle oilfieldsto a pipeline in Colombia through which Ecuadorean crude couldbe pumped to the Pacific Coast, Ecuadorean energy minsitryofficials said.    They said it would take about two months and at least 15mln dlrs to build the pipeline from Lago Agrio in Ecuador toPuerto Colon, Colombia for connection to the Colombianpipeline, which goes to the port of Tumaco on Colombia'sPacific Ocean coast.    The Lago Agrio to Puerto Colon pipeline is designed totransport between 30,000 to 50,000 barrels of day (bpd) ofEcuadorean crude to the Colombian pipeline, they said.    The Colombian pipeline to Tumaco has ample room forEcuadorean crude, they said. It is currently transporting about17,000 bpd out of its 100,000 bpd capacity, an Ecuadoreanenergy ministry official said.    The Ecuadorean crude reaching Tumaco will be shipped byboat to Ecuador for refining into oil products to meet domesticdemand.    The completion of the pipeline would allow Ecuador toresume some of production, paralysed since March six by an earthquake the night before.    The tremor ruptured the country's main pipeline from jungleoilfields to the Ecuadorean port of Balao, on the PacificOcean.    Ecuador was pumping about 260,000 bpd before theearthquake. It would take about five months to repair thepipeline to Balao, government officials said.    Ecuador estimates that it will cost between 145 to 150 mlndlrs to repair oil installations damaged by the earthquake,energy ministry Javier Espinosa said.    Reuter
U.S. PRODUCER ENERGY PRICES RISE IN FEBRUARY Prices of wholesale finished energygoods in the U.S. rose 4.0 pct in February after a 9.8 pct risein January, the Labor Department said.    The Producer Price Index for finished energy goods fell by20.9 pct in the past 12 months.    Heating oil prices rose 3.0 pct in February after a 18.0pct rise in January, the department said.    Gasoline prices rose by 5.5 pct last month after a 15.7pct January rise, the department said. Natural gas prices rose1.8 pct after a 4.2 pct rise in January.    Crude oil prices rose 4.4 pct in February, after a 19.7 pctJanuary rise and were off 21.3 pct from the year ago level. Reuter
U.S. PRODUCER ENERGY PRICES RISE IN FEBRUARY Prices of wholesale finished energygoods in the United States were up in February, rising by 4.0pct after a 9.8 pct rise in January, the Labor Department said.    The Producer Price Index for finished energy goods hasfallen 20.9 pct in the past 12 months.    Heating oil prices rose 3.0 pct in February after a 18.0pct rise in January, the department said.    Gasoline prices rose by 5.5 pct last month after a 15.7pct January rise, the department said. Natural gas prices rose1.8 pct after a 4.2 pct rise in January.    Energy goods at the intermediate stage of processing rose2.7 pct in February after rising 3.5 pct in January and weredown 16.1 pct over the past 12 months, the Labor Departmentsaid.    Prices for crude energy goods, such as crude oil, coal andgas at the wellhead, rose 2.6 pct last month after a 10.0 pctJanuary rise. They were down 11.6 pct from February 1986, thedepartment said.     At the intermediate stage, liquefied petroleum gas pricesrose 10.1 pct last month after a 5.0 pct January rise and were41.0 pct below prices a year earlier, the department said.    Residual fuel prices rose 16.7 pct in February after a 13.4pct rise a month earlier and were off 17.4 pct in 12 months.    Electric power prices fell 0.3 pct last month, after a 1.3pct January decline, and were down 3.6 pct from a year ago.    Crude oil prices rose 4.4 pct in February, after a 19.7 pctJanuary rise and were off 21.3 pct from the year ago level.    Prices of natural gas at the wellhead rose 1.8 pct inFebruary after rising 4.2 pct a month earlier and were 14.8 pctlower than they were 12 months earlier, the department said.    Coal costs were down 0.3 pct last month after rising 0.4pct in January and were down 0.8 pct from a year ago. Reuter
PDVSA TO SIGN CHAMPLIN REFINERY DEAL MARCH 17 Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A. said itwill sign a contract March 17 to buy a half interest in aCorpus Christi, Texas refinery and related operations.    The contract, to be signed by PDVSA and ChamplinPetroleum's parent company, the Union Pacific Corp, will createa new joint venture called Champlin Refining.    The state oil company said PDVSA will pay on the order of30 mln dlrs for the half interest in Champlin.     Energy minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said Wednesdaythe cost would be 33 mln dlrs in cash, plus an additional 60mln in crude and refined oil shipments.    PDVSA and Union Pacific have sought a line of credit from agroup of North American and Japanese banks to finance the newcompany's working capital, the Venezuelan company said.    Under the deal, PDVSA will supply up to 140,000 barrels aday to the refinery with the option to place 50,000 bpd more -mostly gasoline and distillates - through Champlin'sdistribution system in 10 U.S. states.    The new company will be directed by a six-member board,with three representatives each from PDVSA and Union Pacific.    According to PDVSA, Venezuelans will occupy such keypositions such as treasurer and vice-president formanufacturing.    The total capacity of the Champlin refinery is 160,000 bpdof crudes and another 40,000 bpd of intermediates. The plantwill be able to handle 110,000 bpd of Venezuelan heavy crudes,which make up more than half of the country's crude oilexports. Reuter
VENEZUELA TO LEND UP TO 12.5 MLN BARRELS OF OIL Venezuela will lend Ecuador up to 12.5mln barrels of crude oil to help it meet its export commitmentsand its domestic energy demand, Ecuadorean Energy and MinesMinister Javier Espinosa said today in a statement.    Ecuador was forced to suspend exports after the pipelineconnecting its jungle oil fields with the Pacific Ocean port ofBalao was damaged last week by an earthquake.    Venezuela would lend 50,000 barrels per day of crude for atotal of up to to 7.5 mln barrels to help Ecuador meet exportcommitments, Espinosa said. Also, Venezuela will sell the crudeand provide the foreign exchange earnings to Ecuador, he said.     Ecuador would repay Venezuela in crude once it resumed itsexports after repairing its pipeline to Balao, a task thatwould take an estimated five  months.    Venezuela is lending Ecuador five mln barrels of crude forrefining in this country to meet domestic demand. Ecuador wouldrepay that loan with crude once the oil pipeline is repaired.    Both countries are the only Latin American members of theOrganisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).    Ecuador was exporting about 140,000 bpd before theearthquake, Energy Ministry officials said. Its total outputwas around 260,000 bpd. Reuter
PDVSA TO SIGN CHAMPLIN REFINERY DEAL MARCH 17 Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A. said itwill sign a contract March 17 to buy a half interest in aCorpus Christi, Texas refinery and related operations.    The contract, to be signed by PDVSA and ChamplinPetroleum's parent company, the Union Pacific Corp <UNP>, willcreate a new joint venture called Champlin Refining.    The state oil company said PDVSA will pay on the order of30 mln dlrs for the half interest in Champlin.     Energy minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said Wednesdaythe cost would be 33 mln dlrs in cash, plus an additional 60mln in crude and refined oil shipments.    PDVSA and Union Pacific have sought a line of credit from agroup of North American and Japanese banks to finance the newcompany's working capital, the Venezuelan company said.    Under the deal, PDVSA will supply up to 140,000 barrels aday to the refinery with the option to place 50,000 bpd more -mostly gasoline and distillates - through Champlin'sdistribution system in 10 U.S. states.    The new company will be directed by a six-member board,with three representatives each from PDVSA and Union Pacific. Reuter
SAUDIS DROP CONDITION FOR OIL SALE TO BRAZIL Saudi Arabia has dropped itscondition that Brazil secure international bank guaranteesbefore Saudia Arabia would ship it oil, the state-oil company,Petrobras, said in a statement.    Petrobras said the Saudis will accept Banco do Brasilcredit guarantees.    Petrobras cancelled a 40-mln dlr crude oil purchase fromthe Saudis yesterday after they refused to accept a letter ofcredit from the official Bank of Brazil. The Saudis haddemanded that Brazil get credit guarantees from leadinginternational banks.    Petrobras said the Saudis had been advised that if they didnot change their mind by Monday, Petrobras would negotiate thepurchase of oil with other producers.    The Petrobras statement said the shipment of 2.2 mlnbarrels will be made by the Saudis on March 24 as scheduled.    The shipment is part contract signed in February for theSaudis to supply Brazil with 125,000 barrels per day untilJune. Reuter
SAUDI ARABIA DECIDES TO ACCEPT BRAZIL CREDIT Saudi Arabia has lifted thecondition it imposed on the sale of oil to Brazil and willaccept Banco do Brasil's credit guarantees, state-oil companyPetrobras said in a statement.    Petrobras cancelled a 40 mln dlr crude oil purchase fromthe Saudis yesterday, after they refused to accept a letter ofcredit from the Bank of Brazil, demanding guarantees fromleading international banks.    It advised the Saudis the company would negotiate oilpurchases elsewhere unless they changed their mind by Monday.    The 2.2 mln barrels shipment will be made by the Saudis onMarch 24 as scheduled, the statement said.    Under a 125,000 bpd contract signed in February the Saudisagreed to supply oil to Brazil until June. Reuter
YUGOSLAVIAN OIL FIRM STARTS WORKING WITH FRENCH Yugoslavia's top oil and natural gasproducer <Ina-Naftaplin> has started to implement a cooperationcontract signed last year with the French petrochemical concern<Petro Chemie>, the official Tanjug news agency said.    Under the deal Petro Chemie supplies oil to Ina refineriesin Sisak and Rijeka and ships parts to 12 Yugoslav firms in thepetrochemical, chemical, textile and plastics industries. TheYugoslav firms, in turn, will export oil products to France.    Tanjug said this year's exchange will value 530 mln dlrs.    Ina signed a similar deal with West Germany's Hoechst AG<HFAG.F> two years ago.    Ina also has joint ventures and co-production projects,involving Yugoslavia's other main producer <Naftagas> of NoviSad, with partners in Angola, Algeria and Tunisia, exploringfor and exploiting oil and natural gas.    An estimated 300,000 tonnes of oil will thus be obtainedfrom fields in Angola over the next 15 years, Tanjug said.    Ina accounts for some 75 pct of Yugoslavia's total oilproduction, which amounts to 4.2 mln tonnes a year.    Ina earned more than 154 mln dlrs from exports of goods andservices to 39 countries last year and ranks among Yugoslavia'sleading export enterprises.    In a separate statement issued through Tanjug, Ina said ithas successfully completed the first drill at the depth of over3,000 meters in the Bay of Baes, in Tunisia. Ina is jointlyprospecting with the U.S. Firm Conoco for oil and gas there.    Work on a second drill, below 4,000 meters, would startsoon in the Bay of Gabes, the statement said. Ina would investabout 8.5 mln dlrs in prospecting in the Gabes area.    Conoco, which has completed geological prospecting for theTunisian government, has transferred one third of its optionrights in the region to Ina, it said. REUTER
BRAZILIAN BANK WORKERS DECIDE ON NATIONAL STRIKE Brazilian bank workers votedto launch a nationwide strike this month, compounding labourunrest arising from the failure of the government'santi-inflation plan.    At a rally in this city, about 100 km northwest of SaoPaulo, about 5,000 bank workers voted to strike on March 24unless their demand for 100 pct pay rises is met.    Wilson Gomes de Moura, president of the nationalconfederation which groups the bank employees' 152 unionsrepresenting 700,000 workers, told Reuters the indefinitestoppage would affect all banks.    The vote came as a stoppage by seamen entered its thirdweek and as 55,000 oil workers threatened action against thestate-owned petroleum company Petrobras.    The government ordered thousands of troops into therefineries on Tuesday to forestall any occupation, but thetroops were removed yesterday.    Petrobras said it had requested their withdrawal becausethe refineries were calm and oil workers had indicated theirwillingess to negotiate next Wednesday. The government has alsosent marines into the main ports.    A spokesman at strike headquarters for the seamen in Rio deJaneiro said unions were studying an offer by privateshipowners for a 120 pct pay rise.    Seamen employed by two small companies have alreadyaccepted a 120 pct pay rise and returned to work, as have about5,000 seamen employed by Petrobras.    Last week also saw widespread protests by hundreds ofthousands of farmers over what they see as unfairly highinterest rates charged by banks.    According to official estimates, prices rose by more than33 pct in the first two months of this year. REUTER
SAUDI OIL MINISTER FORESEES NO NEED FOR NEW OPEC MEASURES BEFORE Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Hisham Nazersaid OPEC's December agreement to stabilise oil prices at 18dlrs a barrel was being implemented satisfactorily and therewas no immediate need to change it.    Nazer, in an interview with Reuters and the television newsagency Visnews, said Saudi Arabia was producing around threemln barrels per day (bpd) of crude oil, well below its OPECquota.    Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil exporter, willcontinue to restrain production as long as other OPEC membersadhere to the pact, Nazer said.    The 13-nation OPEC agreed in December to cut its productionceiling by 7.25 pct to 15.8 mln bpd and abide by fixed pricesaveraging 18 dlrs a barrel from February 1.    Nazer, in his first interview since succeeding Ahmed ZakiYamani last October, said: "I do not foresee any need for newmeasures before the 25th of June when our (next OPEC) meetingwill take place as scheduled."    Nazer said OPEC was producing below 15.8 mln bpd and allmembers were abiding by its agreements.    "We've heard news every now and then of violations but theywere not at all verified," he said.    OPEC production curbs have boosted world oil prices from a13-year low of around eight dlrs a barrel last August to near18 dlrs after announcement of the December pact.    Spot market prices slipped some two dlrs in February buthave firmed in the past two weeks to near OPEC levels astraders gained confidence in OPEC price and output discipline.    Nazer said Saudi Arabia would continue to produce below its4.133 mln bpd quota if necessary to defend the 18 dlr price.    "As long as all the OPEC members adhere to the program asdevised in December, Saudi Arabia will continue to adhere tothe agreement," he said.    Current production of three mln bpd includes oil from theNeutral Zone shared with Kuwait, but not sales from floatingstorage, Nazer said.    King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, in an interview with Reuters andVisnews on March 11, said the kingdom wanted oil pricestability and called on non-OPEC producers to avoid harmfulcompetition with OPEC.    "Saudi Arabia doesn't decide prices by itself but certainlydesires price stability," he said.    Nazer said the output level did not mean the kingdom hadreturned to a role of "swing producer" within OPEC.    Saudi Arabia allowed its output to sink as low as two mlnbpd in August 1985 to compensate for slack demand andover-production by some OPEC states.    "Saudi Arabia is not playing that role. It is being playedby OPEC membership as a whole because the reduction in the 15.8mln bpd share of OPEC in the market is being shared by othermembers of OPEC," Nazer said.    Nazer said OPEC estimated demand for its oil during thirdquarter this year would be around 16.6 mln bpd.    But he said if circumstances changed "I am sure then theOPEC members will consult with each other and take thenecessary measures."    Oil analysts say the OPEC pact could come under strain whendemand for petroleum products generally falls in the northernhemisphere spring and summer.    Nazer said he was satisfied with the extent of cooperationfrom non-OPEC producers. Norway, Egypt and the Soviet Unionagreed to help OPEC by restraining production or exports afterhe visited them on OPEC's behalf earlier this year.    "We did not ask any country to do anything. These wereprogrammes they thought were necessary to stabilise marketconditions and to help themselves attain better pricingconditions," Nazer said.    He said it was up to countries that declined to cooperate-- such as Britain -- to come up with their own proposals ifthey saw fit. REUTER
SAUDI BUSINESSMEN TO DISCUSS PRIVATE SECTOR Saudi Arabian businessleaders assembled for a conference aimed at thrashing outproblems facing the private sector of the kingdom'soil-dependent economy.    The meeting of some 500 top businessmen from across SaudiArabia comes at a time of guarded optimism in industry andcommerce following the OPEC pact to boost world oil prices.    The four-day conference in this resort town, high in themountains above the Tihamah plain stretching to the Red Sea,has been organised by Saudi Arabia's chambers of commerce.    Finance Minister Mohammed Ali Abal-Khail and CommerceMinister Suleiman Abdulaziz al-Salim will attend the first day.    Bankers and businessmen said the conference will airproblems facing commerce and industry after last year's slidein oil prices and examine ways to promote higher investment ina private sector sorely short of finance.    Government planners have long recognised that Saudi Arabia,the world's largest crude exporter, needs to foster privateenterprise to diversify its oil-based economy.    The fledgling private sector was hard hit by the MiddleEast recession as early as 1983 and several big manufacturingand trading companies ran into problems repaying loans.    Renewed optimism this year stems largely from the accordreached by OPEC last December to curb oil output and boostprices to a benchmark level of 18 dlrs per barrel.    With oil prices recovering, Saudi Arabia went ahead at theturn of the year with long-delayed budget plans incorporating a52.7 billion riyal deficit to be bridged by drawing downforeign reserves.    The simple act of publishing a budget restored a measure ofconfidence to the business community.    Some share prices have risen by more than 35 pct since lastNovember, while banks are generally reporting a slowdown in thenumber of new non-performing loans.    But not all bankers are convinced. One senior corporatefinance manager in Riyadh said: "Banks are still reluctant tolend ... There is certainly more optimism in the air, but I amnot sure if it is firmly based."    Some businessmen and bankers point out that governmentspending is still under tight control and the non-oil economymay still be contracting.    Capital expenditure on large projects has been cut sharply.A U.S. Embassy report on Saudi Arabia published just before thebudget said: "While industrialisation has continued to be one ofthe government's highest priorities, the recession, thepayments problem and the lack of financing have reduced Saudiand foreign investor interest in industry."    It is the lack of fresh investment that is expected to be amajor issue among the businessmen gathered here.    Official figures show the number of new licences forindustrial ventures fell 24 pct in the six months to March1986, compared with the same period in 1985.    Lending by the Saudi Industrial Development Fund, a majorsource of industry backing, has fallen steadily since 1983.    Trading companies have also been hit, some caught with hugeinventories of construction equipment as recession bit.    Some firms laid off workers and cut bloated inventories.Others have effectively been liquidated. A few have reachedagreement with bankers to extend debt repayments.    The latest rescheduling is for the shipping-to-hotelsconglomerate REDEC. Its negotiators have just initialled adraft accord to restructure payments on 1.3 billion riyals ofbank debt.    Bankers and businessmen said the conference was also likelyto discuss the apparent reluctance of U.S. And British firms tostep up investment in the kingdom.    A British government delegation has just left Riyadh afterholding preliminary talks on ways of offsetting the huge Saudioutlay on a defence contract to supply 132 fighter aircraftworth five billion stg. REUTER
MEES SAYS SECOND WEEK MARCH OPEC OUTPUT 14 MLN BPD OPEC produced only about 14 mln bpd ofoil in the second week of March -- 1.8 mln bpd below itsceiling -- largely because of pipeline problems in Turkey andEcuador, the Middle East Economic Survey (MEES) estimated.    A landslide breached Iraq's one mln bpd pipeline throughTurkey on March 6 for a week, and earthquakes in Ecuador haveshut down its export pipeline for four to five months. Ecuadorhas an OPEC quota of 210,000 bpd.    MEES put Saudi Arabian output at 2.9 mln bpd in the firstweek of March and 3.1 mln bpd in the second, in addition tooutput from the Neutral Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.    MEES said Saudi Arabia was pumping more than 300,000 bpd ofits total production into floating storage.    Saudi Oil Minister Hisham Nazer told Reuters and thetelevision news agency Visnews yesterday that Saudi output,including Neutral Zone production, was around three mln bpd.    The Cyprus-based newsletter also said authoritative Libyanoil sources said Libya was producing 850,000 bpd, compared withits 948,000 bpd quota, and that actual liftings are much lowerthan that.    It said one major Libyan equity producer had partiallystopped lifting its 55,000 bpd equity entitlement for Marchbecause Libya was insisting on official prices, but is stilllifting 40,000 bpd of debt crude at official prices and afurther 25,000 bpd of "purchase crude."    It said small equity producers, with entitlements of only2,000 to 3,000 bpd, had also told Tripoli they could not liftat official prices.    MEES said Iraq had sent a telex to OPEC and membercountries calling for the formation of a committee to studywhat it said were inequalities in marketing potential amongvarious members.    The newsletter said the Iraqi letter indicated Baghdad washaving difficulty selling crude at official prices.    The Iraqi telex pointed out that some member countriesexport substantial volumes of oil that are not subject to OPECprice regulations -- exports of refined products, equity crudeon which the margins are equivalent to covert discounts and"other forms of hydrocarbons" which are marketed in package dealswith crude oil. REUTER
ECUADOR SAYS IT WILL PAY DEBT WHEN IT CAN President Leon Febres Cordero saidEcuador would honour its debt when it had the capacity to makepayments, but said foreign banks had calculated oil would haveto be 25 dlrs a barrel for Ecuador to meet its commitments.    Ecuador said on Friday that last week's earthquake wasforcing it to reaffirm an earlier decision -- based on theslide in world oil prices -- to suspend debt payments toprivate foreign banks, which hold two-thirds of its 8.16billion dlr foreign debt.    "All legitimate debt is a commitment of honour," thepresident said during a visit to the quake zone. "A governmentas a sovereign entity has dignity and prestige to maintain."    Private foreign banks and the World Bank had calculated oilwould have to be at least 25 dlrs a barrel for Quito to be ableto meet its commitments, Febres Cordero said.    He added that Ecuadorean crude was now selling for 15 to 17dlrs a barrel after having been sold for many months at 12 dlrsa barrel and as low as seven dlrs before that.    Meanwhile, Ecuador announced an austerity program and aprice freeze on key consumer goods as a result of theearthquake, which killed at least 300 people.    Presidency Minister Patricio Quevedo said the budget wouldbe cut by five to 10 pct, government hiring would be frozen andsalaries of top officials, including the president and cabinet,would be reduced.    He also said a price freeze would be imposed on 20 basicconsumer items, mainly food staples, while the price ofgasoline would rise by between 69 and 80 pct and bus fareswould rise by 20 pct. Gasoline supplies would also be limited. Reuter
PARIBAS SEEKING TO ADJUST ECUADOR OIL FACILITY Banque Paribas, which arranged a 220mln dlr loan for Ecuador last year to pre-finance oil exports,wants to adjust the terms of the facility to help the countryrecover from a devastating earthquake, bankers said.    But the French bank's plan, which would effectivelypostpone repayment of about 30 mln dlrs of the loan for severalmonths, is running into stiff resistance from many of the 52members of the loan syndicate.    The pipeline that carries all Ecuador's oil exports wasruptured in the March 5 tremor and will take some five monthsto repair at a cost of about 150 mln dlrs to repair.    President Leon Febres Cordero on Friday estimated totaldamages caused by the quake at one billion dlrs and said thatEcuador as a result would maintain January's suspension ofinterest payments on its foreign commercial bank debt.    Payments were halted in January because of the drop in theprice of oil, which accounts for nearly two-thirds of Ecuador'sexport earnings and 60 pct of government revenue.    Although sympathetic to Ecuador's plight, many banks in theParibas facility feel that emergency financial relief is a jobfor international financial organizations and not forcommercial banks, bankers said.    The 18-month oil-financing facility, which was signed lastOctober 28, is one of the few purely voluntary credits for aLatin American nation since the region's debt crisis erupted inAugust 1982.    Because it was a voluntary deal, many bankers feel stronglythat the orginal terms must be adhered to. Otherwise, theyfear, the gradual re-establishment of normal market conditionsfor Latin borrowers will be set back.    "There's a lot of reluctance by the other banks. They feelit's a different facility, and so any kind of suggestion of arestructuring would look bad," one banker commented. Reuter
SAUDI OIL MINISTER SEES NO NEED TO ALTER PACT Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Hisham Nazersaid OPEC's December agreement to stabilize oil prices at 18dlrs a barrel was being implemented satisfactorily and therewas no immediate need to change it.    Nazer, in an interview with Reuters and the television newsagency Visnews, said Saudi Arabia was producing around threemln barrels per day (bpd) of crude oil, well below its OPECquota.    Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil exporter, willcontinue to restrain production as long as other OPEC membersadhere to the pact, Nazer said.    The 13-nation OPEC agreed in December to cut its productionceiling by 7.25 pct to 15.8 mln bpd and abide by fixed pricesaveraging 18 dlrs a barrel from February 1.    Nazer, in his first interview since succeeding Ahmed ZakiYamani last October, said: "I do not foresee any need for newmeasures before the 25th of June when our (next OPEC) meetingwill take place as scheduled."    Nazer said OPEC was producing below 15.8 mln bpd and allmembers were abiding by its agreements.    "We've heard news every now and then of violations but theywere not at all verified," he said.    OPEC production curbs have boosted world oil prices from a13-year low of around eight dlrs a barrel last August to near18 dlrs after announcement of the December pact.    Spot market prices slipped some two dlrs in February buthave firmed in the past two weeks to near OPEC levels astraders gained confidence in OPEC price and output discipline.    Nazer said Saudi Arabia would continue to produce below its4.133 mln bpd quota if necessary to defend the 18 dlr price.    "As long as all the OPEC members adhere to the program asdevised in December, Saudi Arabia will continue to adhere tothe agreement," he said.    Current production of three mln bpd includes oil from theNeutral Zone shared with Kuwait, but not sales from floatingstorage, Nazer said.    King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, in an interview with Reuters andVisnews on March 11, said the kingdom wanted oil pricestability and called on non-OPEC producers to avoid harmfulcompetition with OPEC.    "Saudi Arabia doesn't decide prices by itself but certainlydesires price stability," he said.    Nazer said the output level did not mean the kingdom hadreturned to a role of "swing producer" within OPEC.    Saudi Arabia allowed its output to sink as low as two mlnbpd in August 1985 to compensate for slack demand andover-production by some OPEC states.    "Saudi Arabia is not playing that role. It is being playedby OPEC membership as a whole because the reduction in the 15.8mln bpd share of OPEC in the market is being shared by othermembers of OPEC," Nazer said.    Nazer said OPEC estimated demand for its oil during thirdquarter this year would be around 16.6 mln bpd.    But he said if circumstances changed "I am sure then theOPEC members will consult with each other and take thenecessary measures."    Oil analysts say the OPEC pact could come under strain whendemand for petroleum products generally falls in the northernhemisphere spring and summer.    Nazer said he was satisfied with the extent of cooperationfrom non-OPEC producers. Norway, Egypt and the Soviet Unionagreed to help OPEC by restraining production or exports afterhe visited them on OPEC's behalf earlier this year.    "We did not ask any country to do anything. These wereprogrammes they thought were necessary to stabilise marketconditions and to help themselves attain better pricingconditions," Nazer said.    He said it was up to countries that declined to cooperate-- such as Britain -- to come up with their own proposals ifthey saw fit.
SAUDIS DROP CONDITION FOR OIL SALE TO BRAZIL Saudi Arabia has dropped itscondition that Brazil secure international bank guaranteesbefore Saudia Arabia would ship it oil, state-oil companyPetrobras said in a statement.    Petrobras said the Saudis will accept Banco do Brasilcredit guarantees.    Petrobras cancelled a 40 mln dlr crude oil purchase fromthe Saudis yesterday after they refused to accept a letter ofcredit from the official Bank of Brazil. The Saudis haddemanded that Brazil get credit guarantees from leadinginternational banks.    Petrobras said the Saudis had been advised that if they didnot change their mind by Monday, Petrobras would negotiate thepurchase of oil with other producers.    The Petrobras statement said the shipment of 2.2 mlnbarrels will be made by the Saudis on March 24 as scheduled.    The shipment was part of a contract signed in February forthe Saudis to supply Brazil with 125,000 barrels per day untilJune. REUTER
NORWAY APPROVES TRADE BAN AGAINST SOUTH AFRICA Norway's parliament has approved anextensive trade ban against South Africa but left shipowners akey loophole through which controversial oil shipments onNorwegian tankers may continue, government officials said.    The unilateral boycott, proposed by Norway's minorityLabour government, gives domestic companies until lateSeptember to cut remaining trade ties with South Africa andNamibia.    "The legislation discussed today must not be seen as anisolated measure, but as a step in an international process,"Norway's foreign minister Thorvald Stoltenberg told parliament.    Government officials said they hope the move will intensifyinternational pressure against the Pretoria regime's apartheidpolicies. Sweden, in a similar move last week, promised to haltall trade with South Africa by October.    Norway's boycott, although forbidding crude oil shipmentsto South Africa on Norwegian-owned tankers, makes an importantexception for ships whose final destination is decided whilethey are at sea.    Oil cargoes are often resold by trades after loading,making it difficult for shipowners to know their ships' finalport at the start of a voyage.    Critics said the bill leaves the door open for continuedoil shipments to South Africa. They called for strictersanctions to stop all Norwegian shipping to South Africa.    Norwegian tankers supplied South Africa with about 30 pctof its crude imports during the early 1980s, but the trade hasdropped sharply to just one cargo in the last three months,trade ministry officials said.    The latest trade figures show Norwegian imports from SouthAfrica dropped 36 pct to 160 mln crowns during the first eightmonths of 1986, while exports plunged 52 pct to 265 mln crownsfrom the year-ago figure.    "Many would say that the law has already had its effectbecause of the dramatic drop in trade between South African andNorway," Foreign Ministry spokesman Per Paust told Reuters.    "Norwegian business at an early stage started restructuringits relations with South Africa in anticipation of the law.    "No one has said the boycott will have a profound effect oninternational trade with South Africa, but it is an importantpolitical statement by the Norwegian government," he said.    The Oslo government said it will review the effects of theban on Norwegian industry after two years and may proposeamendments if industry can show it is hurt by the law.    Norwegian imports from South Africa are limited mainly tohigh-grade manganese and coppernickle ores used in itferro-alloys and light metals industries.    Metals manufacturers estimate some 2,000 jobs could beaffected by the boycott is suitable replacements for these oresare not found.    The legislation now goes on to the upper house for formalratification later this week, parliamentarians said. Reuter
GOTAAS-LARSEN <GOTLF> TO BUILD FIFTH CARRIER Gotaas-Larsen Shipping Corpsaid it had exercised an option to build a fifth in a series ofcrude oil carriers to be constructed by <Daewoo Shipbuildingand Heavy Machinery Ltd> in South Korea. Reuter
PACIFIC RESOURCES <PRI> INSTALLS OIL MOORING Pacific Resources Inc said it hasinstalled a CALM (Catenary Anchor Leg Mooring) single-pointmooring terminal off the southwest coast of Oahu at itsHawaiian Independent Refinery at a cost of 3.5 mln dlrs.    The system transfers crude and fuel oils from tankers tothe refinery's tank farm and carries refined products to shipsfor export, PRI said.    Company chairman Robert G. Reed said the new mooring systemwill permit 24-hour service in most kinds of weather and willreduce ship turnaround time. He said the mooring is the firstof its kind in the U.S.    The new system can accomodate vessels up to 150,000deadweight tons, or one mln barrels of cargo, PRI said. Reuter
SENATE COMMITTEE MAY LOOK AT FUEL TAX PROPOSALS The Senate budget committee sitsdown tomorrow to start drafting a fiscal 1988 budget, with thebudget writers expected to look at several proposals for fueltaxes and other tax options to cut the budget.    In a briefing book for the drafting sessions, a number ofrevenue raising tax options are proposed, including a five dlrsa barrel fee on domestic and imported oil, a fee just onimported oil, and a broad based tax on domestic energyconsumption based on five pct of value.    Other proposals include various excise taxes andcombinations of import surcharges or tariffs, including a 10pct import across the board import surcharge that would raise22 billion dlrs next year alone, more in later years.    The committee, however, will only include revenue numbersin its proposed budget with the actual revenue decisions leftto the House and Senate tax-writing committees.     The committee will draft a budget which its chairman, SenLawton Chiles, a Florida Democrat, said he hopes would raise atleast 18 billion dlrs in revenues, or about half the minimum 36billion dlr deficit reduction he has in mind.    The House Budget Committee also plans to start drafting aseparate budget plan later this week, which would have to bereconciled with the Senate version. The final budget would bethe fiscal 1988 spending and revenue blueprint. Reuter
LOOPHOLE FOR TANKERS IN NORWAY'S S. AFRICA BAN Norway's parliament has approved anextensive trade ban against South Africa but left shipowners akey loophole through which controversial oil shipments onNorwegian tankers may continue, government officials said.    The unilateral boycott gives domestic companies until lateSeptember to cut trade ties with South Africa and Namibia.    Although forbidding crude oil shipments to South Africa onNorwegian-owned tankers, the boycott makes a crucial exceptionfor ships whose final destination is decided while at sea. Asoil cargoes are often resold after loading, critics said thedoor will be left open for continued shipments to South Africa.    Norwegian tankers supplied South Africa with about 30 pctof its crude oil imports during the early 1980s, but the tradehas dropped sharply to just one cargo in the last three months,trade ministry officials said.    The latest trade figures show Norwegian imports from SouthAfrica dropped 36 pct to 160 mln crowns during the first eightmonths of 1986, while exports plunged 52 pct to 265 mln crownsfrom the year-ago figure.    The boycott legislation now goes to the upper house forformal ratification later this week, parliamentarians said. REUTER
IRAN SAID TO ATTACK CYPRIOT TANKER A Cypriot tanker was set ablaze in thePersian Gulf yesterday after an Iranian gunboat fired missilesat it, shipping sources quoting reports from Japanese tankerssaid today.    No casualties were seen and the tanker Pivot, laden withcrude oil, was towed towards Dubai by tugs after they put outthe fire, the sources said.    Iranian gunboats usually check a ship's nationality andcargo before attacking but the Pivot was hit near Bu Musaisland without warning, they added. Reuter
SHEARSON LEHMAN UPGRADES U.S. OIL STOCKS Analyst Sanford Margoshes of ShearsonLehman Brothers said he recommended a number of oil stockstoday now that it is apparent that OPEC has succeeded inholding to its prescribed production quotas.    "It is clear that OPEC, through jawboning and quotarestraint, will boost the price of oil," Margoshes said.    Prices of oil stocks rose sharply today in response tohigher oil prices and optimism about OPEC quotas. Margoshessaid he recommends Imperial Oil <IMO.A>, up 1/2 to 49-1/8,Standard Oil Co <SRD>, 7/8 to 62-3/4, Exxon <XON> one to83-1/8, and Chevron <CHV> 1-1/8 to 54-7/8.    In addition, Margoshes said he recommended AtlanticRichfield <ARC> on a short-term basis, though he said he isstill suspect about its debt situation. Atlantic Richfield rose1-3/4 to 77.    He said "the market could come down to test the 16 dlr abarrel level again, but the main thrust of investing in oil ispositive right now. Before the year is out we will see higheroil prices."    He noted that belief that the government is interested inraising the strategic reserves is factored into the rise in oilstocks today. Reuter
EXXON <XON> MAY CLOSE ONE FRENCH REFINERY Exxon Corp, the world's largest oilcompany, said in a published interview today that it wasreviewing its worldwide refinery operations and might decide toclose on of its french refineries.    Lee R. Raymond, Exxon's new president, singled out thepossibility of a closure of one of Exxon's refineries in Franceduring the interview.    An Exxon spokeswoman confirmed that Raymond hadspecifically mentioned refineries in France but said that nospecific refinery had been named. She also said that all ofExxon's opertations were under constant review.    Exxon currently has two refineries in France, FOS in themediterranean with a capcity of 175,000 barrels per day andPort Jerome west of paris with a similar capacity.    Petroleum Intelligence Weekly, an influential tradejournal, said, in its current issue, that they understood thatExxon was looking at the possibility of refinery closures inAntwerp, Southern France or possibly Italy.    Paul Mlotok, oil analyst with Salomon Brothers inc saidthat with the closures Exxon made in 1986 in Europe and theimprovement in the European refining situation, its futureprofits there should be good.    "Exxon and other major oil companies have closed a bunch ofrefineries in Europe, upgraded the rest and shaken many of theindepedents out of the market. Now with demand for productsrising and efficient operations, Exxon should show superiorearnings," Mlotok said.    "Just after Royal Dutch <RD>, they are seen as one of thehighest grade refiners in Europe," he added.    Industry sources said that the oil companies were likely tofeel greater pressure on their operations in Southern Europewhere competition from the OPEC countries is increasing asthese producers move further into downstream operations.    PIW said that refiners in the Mediterranean can expectincreased shipments from Saudi Arabia and other OPEC exportrefineries.    PIW said "sales from Libya, Algeria and elsewhere areexpected to reclaim markets lost to Italian and other Europeanrefiners as a result of the abundance of cheap netback oil lastyear." Reuter
LAWSON OIL TAX BREAKS TO HELP NEW FIELDS - REVENUE Two new U.K. Tax relief measures for oilproducers, announced today, are aimed at encouragingdevelopments in the North Sea to go ahead and boostopportunities for the offshore supplies industry, the InlandRevenue said in a post-budget statement.    Earlier, Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson announcedin his annual budget to Parliament that from today, companieswill be allowed to offset up to 10 pct of qualifyingdevelopment expenditure on certain future oil fields againstPetroleum Revenue Tax (PRT).    To date, full relief was allowed for expenditure on anindividual field itself, when its income stream began, but wasnot immediately available against other developmentexpenditure, the statement said.    The new relief will apply to fields outside the southernbasin for which developmentconsent is first given on or after today, and will improve thepost-tax economics of new developments and encourage companiesto proceed with project which might have been delayed, it said.    Lawson also announced that he would henceforth allowcertain expenditure on oil related research which does not atpresent qualify for PRT relief to be offset against PRTliability.    This means oil-related expenditure in the U.K. Or on theU.K. Continental shelf, which has not become allowable in aparticular field within three years of being incurred, to beallowed against PRT liability in any oil field, the InlandRevenue said.    This brings the scope of PRT relief for research costs morein line with corporation tax relief measures, and is planned toencourage general research into ways of reducing fielddevelopment costs, it said.    In due course, the industry should benefit by over 100 mlnstg a year, it calculated.    The Inland Revenue statement also included other technicalmeasures that Lawson did not comment on in his budget speech.    These included measures to allow companies to balance theirshares of PRT-exempt oil allowances through reallocation in twopast periods of allowance utilisation.    Tidier rules on incorrectly allowed PRT expenditure reliefswere announced, while there were also ammendments on rules oncorporation tax and Advance Corporation Tax relating to theso-called "ring fence" of activities in the U.K. And itscontinental shelf. The Finance Bill will have provisions forthe implementation of measures announced in November, it said.    Gareth Lewis Davies, a North Sea expert with stockbrokersWood Mackenzie and Co Inc in Edinburgh, thought the two reliefson PRT would help the depressed offshore industry.    He said the 10 pct cross field allowance relief wouldfavour chances that development of smaller North Sea fieldssuch Osprey, Don and Arbroath would be brought forward.    Early development of the larger Miller and Bruce oil fieldsmight also be encouraged, he said.    Lewis Davies said the measure might also aid the offshoreconstruction industry, which suffered a huge amount of lay-offsunder the price slump of more than 50 pct last year.    He pointed out that the relief only applies to thedevelopment of new fields outside the Southern Basin.    This means more jobs could be created, as the fields in thecentral and northern sectors of the North Sea are deeper thanin the south and thus have greater capital and labourrequirements as the waters are deeper than in the south.    He said the PRT relief for certain research expenditurewould help fundamental research in the oil industry, althoughthe benefits of this research would not be seen for severalyear. REUTER
PLAINS <PLNS> POSTS RESERVES INCREASES Plains Resources Inc said that asof December 31, its estimated proved oil and gas reserves roseby 27 pct to 5.43 mln barrels from 4.27 mln barrels and proveddeveloped reserves rose 16 pct to four mln barrels from 3.45mln barrels a year ago.    The company said its year end reserves did not include theoil and gas reserves of Houston Oil Fields Co which recentlyagreed to merge with it, pending shareholder approval inmid-April. If approved, the merger will add another 3.2 mlnbarrels to the company's reserve base. Reuter
U.S. WARNS OF DEPENDENCE ON FOREIGN OIL A White House-ordered report said that growing U.S. reliance on foreign oil into the year 2000could have potentially damaging implications for nationalsecurity.    The Energy Department study discusses several options tocurb reliance on foreign oil, but makes no recommendations.    President Reagan and most Congressmen have previously ruledout a tax on foreign oil as a way to curb imports and to helpthe depressed domestic oil industry.    Energy Secretary John Herrington said in a statement that"although we have made gains in energy security in the last sixyears, this report shows that there is justification fornational concern both over declining competitiveness of ourdomestic oil and gas industry and over rising oil imports."    The report said imports last year were 33 pct of U.S.consumption and by the mid-1990s could rise to 50 pct.    Among the report's options to ease U.S. reliance on foreignoil are several already advocated by the Reagan Administration.    President Reagan ordered the study last September, citing adetermination that the country never again become captive to aforeign oil cartel, referring to the OPEC-led oil shortages andsharp prices increases of the 1970s.    The report said an import fee would raise prices and helpmake it economical for U.S. oil firms to find and produce newoil, as well as to cut imports, but on the whole the tax woulddepress the nation's economy. reuter
U.S OIL TAX WOULD NOT AFFECT PDVSA-CHAMPLIN DEAL an eventual oil import fee in theunited states will make no difference to champlin petroleumcorp's joint venture agreement signed today with petroleos devenezuela (pdvsa), champlin chairman william adams said.    "this was an aspect which was discussed at length during thenegotiations, but we can say our contract covers alleventualities in this regard," he told reuters during thesigning ceremony here.    Venezuela's energy and mines minister arturo hernandezgrisanti earlier described the agreement, under which pdvsabuys 50 pct of champlin's corpus christi refinery, as "one morestep in the maturation and presence of our oil industry inworld markets."   union pacific chairman william cook said the agreement willbe beneficial to both sides, combining a secure source ofsupply with a modern refinery and access to markets.    "we are looking to a long-term relationship, and at a timeof protectionist tendencies in the U.S. Congress there areclear benefits to both sides," he said.    Adams said pdvsa crude would remain competitive even withan oil import fee because champlin had invested heavily overthe years in adapingthe texas refinery to process venezuelanheavy crudes with coking and hydro-treating facilities andobtain a competitive product yield.    "therefore while the danger of an oil import fee has been aconsideration in the negotiations, and it remains to be seenwhat such a fee would represent, we do not foresee any impacton today's agreement," adams said.    He said the refinery could run crude as heavy asvenezuela's bolivar coastal field (bcf) 17 api without anydifficultiesand would probably move over time to a heavier dietto take advantage of bigger margins.    The refinery has a capacity to process up to 110,000 bpd ofvenezuelan high sulphur content heavy crude, with an 80-85 pctyield of white products. Reuter
HERRINGTON SAYS HE MAY RECOMMEND TAX BENEFITS FOR U.S. OIL  Moody's Investors Service Inc said itis reviewing for posible downgrade the debt ratings of W.R.Grace and Co because of concern the company's earnings may notbe high enough to provide meaningful improvement in itscurrently thin margins of interest coverage for some time.    Some 650 mln drls of outstanding debt is affected.    Moody's said it is evaluating the ability of Grace's lessdiversified business portfolio to generate funds sufficient forreinvestment and growth, along with debt service and repayment,in the next three to five years. Reuter
HERRINGTON SAYS HE MAY CALL FOR OIL TAX BENEFITS Energy Secretary John Herringtonsaid he may recommend to the White House that the domestic oilindustry be given tax benefits to help it produce more oil andhead off increasing U.S. dependence on foreign oil.    He said also at a news conference that he would recommendto the White House that the fill rate of the StrategicPetroleum Reserve be increased from its planned 35,000 barrelsper day.    The oil reserve fill rate capacity is 100,000 barrels aday.    Herrington said he had always advocated a greater fill ratefor the petroleum reserve, but the rate had been kept downbecause of budgetary constraints.    Herrington did not disclose what tax incentives he mightadvocate, but U.S. officials have shown interest in taxbenefits for oil and gas exploration and for research anddevelopment into new ways to extract oil which is nowconsidered uneconomical to produce.    He made the remarks in conjunction with the release of theEnergy Department's study on oil's impact on national security.    Herrington said that before he disclosed whatrecommendations for tax benefits for the oil and gas industryhe might make, he would raise the matter with the White HouseEconomic Policy Committee to see if the proposals to increaseoil production made good tax policy.    He said he would like to increase U.S. production by onemln barrels a day.    The report said that by the end of the century the UnitedStates may be relying on foreign sources for 50 pct of its oilconsumption, posing a serious economic and national securitythreat. Reuter
WAINCO OIL <WOL> COMPLETES WILDCAT WELL Wainco Oil Corp said it has completed awildcat well on its GrandMarais prspect in Jefferson DavisParish, La., which is currently producing at a rate of 1.1 mlncubic feet of gas and 40 barrels of condensate daily.    The company said it has a 20 pct working interest in thewell which is flowing from Lower Frion Tweedel Sandperforations between 10,104 and 10,110 feet. Additionaluntested but possibly productive zones exist behind the pipe,it added. It said the remaining owners are privately heldpetroleum companies. Reuter
U.K. OIL REVENUE FORECAST TO FALL IN 1987/88 The U.K. Government forecasts that oilrevenues will fall to four billion stg in the fiscal year1987/88, from 4.75 billion in 1986/87 and 11.5 billion in1985/86.    The forecast came in the Treasury's Financial Statement andBudget Report issued after the Chancellor of the ExchequerNigel Lawson's annual budget statement to parliament.    The government is assuming the price of oil will average 15dlrs a barrel, in line with its earlier forecasts, and its oilrevenue calculation is based on an exchange rate remainingclose to current levels, the Treasury document said.    The Treasury said the 1987/88 oil revenue shortfall willreflect the oil price fall of 1986, as North Sea corporationtax is paid after a time lag.    The statement calculated that a one dlr a barrel differencein oil prices this year will change revenue by about 350 mlnstg for the current fiscal year, and 400 mln stg in a fullyear.    Oil production is forecast to fall slightly in 1987,according to the statement. A change in one mln tonnes inproduction would alter revenue by about 45 mln stg in 1987/88and 50 mln stg in a full year, it added.    Total general government receipts for 1986/87 are nowestimated to be 159.2 billion stg, 2.75 billion more than the1986 Budget forecasts and above the Autumn Statement forecasts,despite a shortfall of 1.25 billlion in oil receipts.    Additional non-North Sea corporation tax of 1.75 billionstg and VAT of 750 mln stg account for the bulk of theovershoot.    Total general government receipts were forecast to rise to168.8 billion stg in fiscal 1987/88, and among the main items,besides diminishing oil revenues, were projected income tax of40 billion stg, up from 38.4 billion in the current year.    Non-North Sea corporation tax is forecast to bring in 13.5billion stg in 1987/88, after the revised 11.2 billion in1986/87, and VAT revenue should amount to 23.3 billion,compared with upwardly revised estimated 21.5 billion thisfiscal year.    The general government expenditure for the coming fiscalyear is expected to total 173.5 billion stg, up from a revised164.9 billion in the current year.    A repayment of 800 mln on public corporations' market andoverseas borrowings is forecast to bring the total PublicSector Borrowing Requirement down to 3.9 billion stg in1987/88, from this year's revised 4.1 billion, the Treasurysaid. REUTER
OPEC WANTS 18 DLR OIL PRICE - OAPEC OFFICIAL OPEC believes world oil prices shouldbe set around a fixed average price of 18 dlrs a barrel, OAPECAssistant General Secretary Abdelaziz Al-Wattari said.    In a speech to a European Community/OAPEC/OPEC seminar inLuxembourg released here, Al-Wattari said, "OPEC believes ...theworld energy trade should be kept without restrictions andshould be built around a fixed average price of 18 dlrs."    Al-Wattari noted that total OPEC output was below theorganization's agreed ceiling for all member countries inFebruary, although this had meant sacrifices. The effect ofthese sacrifices meant that market stability, though restoredto a good level, was still under pressure, Al-Wattari said.    "A lasting stability in the world market requires a widerscope of international cooperation," he said. Reuter
SENATOR SAYS ENERGY REPORT ASSUMPTIONS FLAWED Sen. Pete Domenici, a main sponsorof legislation to set an oil import fee, said theadministration's energy security report was based on flawedeconomic assumptions.    The New Mexico Republican said the report did not take intoaccount the last few weeks' drop in domestic oil production inits statement that an oil fee would raise prices for consumers.The report said a decline in economic growth as a result of thefee would reduce tax revenues. "A five dlr (per barrel) oilimport fee will provide the stimulus to create jobs andinvestment, " and raise revenues, he said. Reuter
API SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS OFF 7.35 MLN BBLS, GASOLINE OFF 2.89 MLN, CRUDE OFF 4 Shr 31 cts vs 31 cts prior    Payable April 24    Record March 31 Reuter
API SAYS DISTILLATE, GAS STOCKS OFF IN WEEK Distillate fuel stocks held inprimary storage fell by 7.35 mln barrels in the week endedMarch 13 to 112.74 mln barrels from a revised 120.09 mln theprevious week, the American Petroleum Institute (API) said.    In its weekly statistical bulletin, the oil industry tradegroup said gasoline stocks fell 2.89 mln barrels to 248.44 mlnbarrels from a revised 251.33 mln, and crude oil stocks dropped4.39 mln barrels to 325.13 mln from a revised 329.52 mln.    It said residual fuel stocks fell 250,000 barrels to 35.73mln from 35.98 mln barrels.    API said refinery runs in the week rose to 11.80 mlnbarrels per day (bpd) from a revised 11.70 mln and refinery useof operating capacity was 75.7 pct, up from a revised 75.0 pct.    Crude oil imports in the week rose to 3.66 mln bpd from arevised 2.67 mln, API added. Reuter
IRAQ SAYS IT ATTACKS TWO SHIPS IN GULF Iraq said its warplanes hit two shipsoff the Iranian coast in attacks last night and early today.    The planes "dealt accurate and effective blows to bothmaritime targets before they returned safely to base," amilitary spokesman told the Iraqi new agency INA.    There was no immediate confirmation of the attacks fromPersian Gulf shipping sources.    The last confirmed Iraqi attack on shipping was on March 8,when an Iranian tanker was hit by a missile south of Iran'sKharg island oil export terminal.    Gulf shipping sources yesterday reported an Iranian warshiphad set the Cypriot supertanker Pivot on fire with a missile.    They said there were no injuries on board and the shipheaded for the Gulf Emirate of Fujairah under its own powerafter the fire was put out.    The Pivot was the 18th ship hit this year in the maritimeextension of the 6-1/2 year-old Iran-Iraq war. Reuter
TEXACO <TX> TO CEASE POSTING TEXAS OIL PRICE Texaco Refining and Marketing, anoperating subsidiary of Texaco Inc, said it would cease to postcrude oil prices for West Texas crudes at the end of this monthfollowing a decision to discontinue purchase of crude oil fromleases, a Texaco spokesman in Houston said.    But it will continue to purchase quantities of U.S. andforeign crude oil for use in its refinery system, he added.     The spokesman also said Texaco Trading and Transport Incwould continue to acquire and market Texaco lease production aswell as other lease production. The company will continue topost a Louisiana price, it said. Reuter
MALAYSIA TO CUT OIL OUTPUT FURTHER, TRADERS SAY Malaysia's state oil company Petronaswill cut oil production to 420,000 barrels per day (bpd) fromMay 1, trade sources said.    Malaysia cut its 510,000 bpd target output by 10 pct lastSeptember to support Opec moves to boost prices, and the latestcut would reduce output by 17.5 pct from 1986's target level.    Petronas said in February that Malaysia would maintain its10 pct production cutback until mid-1987.    However, the Finance Ministry said in its annual reportthat Malaysia's crude oil output was expected to rise to anaverage 510,000 bpd in 1987.    The ministry's forecast assumed average 1987 crude pricesat 13 dlrs/barrel (bbl), but prices have risen enough to permitfurther production cutbacks, the sources said.    Malaysia's benchmark Tapis blend fetched above 18 dlrs/bblthis year against a low of 10.50 dlrs/bbl in July, they said.    Traders said further reductions by Malaysia would add tothe tight spot availabilities of Asian grades caused by reducedIndonesian and Chinese crude output.    The cutback will also help Malaysia maintain prices, asthere is concern some buyers want to reduce term purchases dueto the availability of cheaper alternatives, the sources said.    In addition to term sales, Petronas has been offering twoto three 400,000 bbl spot cargoes of Malaysian crude each monthfor sale through tender, the sources said.    However, this practice is likely to dwindle given thereduced scale of production, they said.
DOE SECRETARY FAVORS HIGHER SPR FILL RATE Energy Secretary John Herringtonsaid he believes the Reagan Administration will review itsdecision to cut the fill rate of the Strategic PetroleumReserve because of a department report issued yesterday warningof growing U.S. dependence on oil imports.    "As part of this study, I think the Administration willtake the fill rate under review," Herrington said at a HouseEnergy subcommittee hearing.    The Administration has proposed cutting the fill rate from75,000 barrels of oil per day to 35,000 bpd in fiscal year 1988to save money.    "My personal feeling is that is too low. I favor themaximum fill rate (of 100,000 bpd)," Herrington said. Reuter
U.S. OIL TAX BREAK PROPOSAL TO BE EXAMINED The White House said a proposal fora tax break for the oil industry would undergo review.    Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said President Reagan had noposition on recommendations submitted by Energy Secretary JohnHerrington to encourage investment in the hard hit domestic oilindustry.    But Fitzwater noted that Reagan did have a fundamentalobjection to tax rises and special tax breaks.    He said that even though Herrington's recommendation didnot agree with existing policy, "We'll take a look at it."    The review will be undertaken by the president's DomesticPolicy Council.    Herrington's proposal was reported by the Washington Postto have been made in a letter to Reagan submitting a study thatfound the United States would be importing half of its oil bythe 1990s, threatening U.S. national security. Reuter
U.S ENERGY SECRETARY PROPOSES OIL TAX INCENTIVES Energy Secretary John Herringtonsaid he will propose tax incentives to increase domestic oiland natural gas exploration and production to the ReaganAdministration for consideration.    "These options boost production, while avoiding the hugecosts associated with proposals like an oil import fee,"Herrington told a House Energy subcommittee hearing. "It is myintention to submit these proposals to the domestic policycouncil and the cabinet for consideration and review."    He said proposals, including an increase in the oildepletion allowance and repeal of the windfall profits tax,should be revenue neutral and promote domestic production atthe least cost to the economy and the taxpayers.    "The goal of the Administration policies is to increasedomestic production. I would like to shoot for one mln barrelsa year."    The proposals were based on a DOE study released yesterdaywarning the United States was threatened by a growingdependence on oil imports.    "We project free world dependence on Persian Gulf oil at 65pct by 1995," Herrington said.    He said it was too soon to say what the Administrationpolicy on oil tax incentives would be and indicated there wouldbe opposition to tax changes.    "Of course, to move forward with these kinds of optionswould require reopening tax issues settled last year (in thetax reform bill) -- an approach which has not, in general, beenfavored by the administration. I think what we need is todebate this within the Administration," he said.    He said the proposals might raise gasoline prices.    Herrington did not specifically confirm a report in today'sWashington Post that he had written to President Reagan urgingan increase in the oil depletion allowance.    Asked about the report by subcommittee members, Herringtonsaid various proposals were under consideration and would bedebated within the Administration to determine which would havethe most benefits at the least cost. Reuter
IRAQ SAYS IT HIT SHIP IN GULF OFF IRAN TODAY Iraq said its warplanes had hit avessel in the Gulf off the Iranian coast today, the third inthe past 24 hours.    A military spokesman told the Iraqi news agency INA thelatest attack was at 1250 GMT. It earlier reported strikes at0650 GMT and at 1930 GMT last night. The planes "dealt accurateand effective blows" to the targets and returned safely to base.    There was no immediate confirmation of the attacks fromGulf shipping sources. The last confirmed Iraqi attack was onon March 8, when an Iranian tanker was hit by a missile southof Iran's Kharg island oil export terminal. Reuter
ENERGY/DRILLING INDUSTRY The drastic cutbacks in U.S. drillinglast year are rapidly deflating the United State's natural gasbubble, which could bring spot shortages in gas supplies nextwinter and a modest recovery in the oilpatch, industry analystssaid.    Faltering deliverability of natural gas, a commodity thatis difficult and costly to import in large quantities, couldmore than double the current U.S. rig count to near 2,000 by1990, some analysts said.    The need to lock in future supplies of gas for utilitiesand big industrial customers may also bring a resurgence ofactivity in the Gulf of Mexico's offshore waters where some ofthe nation's largest gas reserves are located.    "We think an upturn in U.S. drilling is imminent," saidJames Crandall, an analyst with Salomon Brothers Inc. "Manycompanies appear to be switching from oil to gas drillingbecause they're betting that the gas market will be back inbalance in a year or two."    The prospect of diminishing gas supplies is welcome newsfor drilling and oilfield service companies that barelysurvived last year's plunge in oil prices from about 30 dlrs abarrel to less than half that. Today's relatively stable oilprices of about 18 dlrs a barrel are not enough to spur areturn to the heady days of 1981 when the U.S. drilling rigcount soared to a record high of more than 4,500 and oilfieldroustabouts commanded premium wages.    The latest weekly Hughes Tool Co <HT> rig count, abarometer of the oil industry's health, showed 761 U.S. rigsactive in what is traditionally the slowest time of the year.    In 1986, the Hughes rig count began the year at 1,915 butdived to a post-World War II low of 663 in July as world oilprices experienced the sharpest decline in recent times.    Ike Kerridge, a Hughes economist, said "In 1986, the UnitedStates replaced only about 40 pct of the gas it used and thatreplacement rate won't be any better this year."    He added, "We don't have the options we do with oil.Imports of gas from Canada are limited by pipeline capacity andimporting liquefied natural gas on ships will not be feasiblein the next 10 years because of the cost."    Only about 6 trillion cubic feet of additional gas reserveswere discovered last year while U.S. consumption approached 16trillion cubic feet, according to industry estimates.    George Gaspar, an oil analyst with Robert W. Baird and Coagreed that the need for gas supplies would set the stage for anew cycle of gradual increases in U.S. drilling.    "We anticipate that natural gas pipelines will need todedicate to their systems new gas reserves for 1989 and 1990supplies. That means new drilling programs must begin no laterthan mid-1988," Gaspar said.    Gasper said he sees a new drilling cycle emerging thatcould last until 1992 and that he expects the average rig countto peak near 2,000 in December of 1989.    Much of the search for new gas reserves is likely to beconducted in the offshore waters of the Gulf of Mexico, wherefederal leases on unexplored areas will revert back to thegovernment unless drilling begins in the next two or threeyears. Some of the industry's biggest companies, such as ExxonCorp <XON>, Mobil Corp MOB, and Union Texas Petroleum havealready indicated plans to increase spending for drilling laterthis year in the Gulf of Mexico, Crandall said.    For example, Conoco Inc, a Dupont <DD> subsidiary, willspend 400 mln dlrs to build the Gulf of Mexico's deepestproduction platform, which will produce 50 mln cubic feet ofgas per day.    But T. Boone Pickens, who has acquired huge Texas andKansas gas reserves for his Mesa Limited Partnership <MLP> inrecent months, is not convinced that the drilling industry ison the verge of a recovery.    Pickens predicts the U.S. rig count will soon drop below600 and will not increase significantly until oil prices do.    "The rigs won't go back to work until the price of oil getsabove 30 dlrs a barrel," said Pickens, 58, adding he did notexpect to see the rig count top 2,000 again in his lifetime.    Tenneco Inc <TGT>, one of the largest U.S. gas producers,is skeptical that a need for additional gas drilling exists.    Tenneco vice president Joe Foster said he did not expectsignificant increases in drilling for gas until the early 1990swhen the U.S. gas reserves life will have declined to aboutseven years' supply. Current spot market prices of about 1.50dlrs per thousand cubic feet will need to rise to about threedlrs to spur reserve replacement, he said. Reuter
U.S. ENERGY INDUSTRY SAID IN BETTER HEALTH The U.S. oil and gas industry is inbetter health than it was a year ago, according to testimonygiven to the Texas Railroad Commission at its annual state ofthe industry hearing today.     The Commission, which regulates the state's oil and gasindustry, heard testimony from a number of high-level companyexecutives reflecting a belief that the recent industrydownturn had bottomed out.     "The attitude expressed here today so far is a great dealmore optimistic (than last year)," Commissioner James E. (Jim)Nugent told Reuters.     "It reflects their (the executives) belief that they areseeing the bottom of the economic cycle," he added, "and withjust a few reasonable breaks this industry can begin to moveagain."     The energy industry was hard hit by the sharp drop in oilprices, which fell from around 30 dlrs a barrel in late 1985 toas low as 10 dlrs in mid-1986. Prices have since steadied toaround 18 dlrs a barrel.     At the same time, a number of company executives testifiedthat the nation's domestic exploration and production segmentwas still hurting and in need of government help.     Production costs are considerably higher in the UnitedStates than in such areas as the Middle East and as prices fellmany domestic producers were forced to shut down theiroperations. Currently, there are only about 760 oil rigsoperating in the United States compared with an average ofnearly 2,000 in 1985.     Citing a study released yesterday by the Department ofEnergy, many said the falling production of domestic oilcoupled with increasing U.S. demand, was leading to a growingdependency on imports, particularly from the politicallyvolatile Middle East.     "In the U.S., 1986 petroleum production responded to lowerprices, increasing about 2.5 pct, or 400,000 barrels per day(bpd)," said J.S. Simon, General Manager of the SupplyDepartment at Exxon Corp <XON>, the nation's largest oilcompany.     At the same time, Simon said "U.S. oil production declinedby 300,000 bpd, the first decline in several years," and "netpetroleum imports were up 25 pct to 5.3 mln bpd."     Noting that while oil prices were expected to remainbetween 13 and 20 dlrs a barrel, depending on OPEC's ability tocontrol production, Simon said demand is expected to remain at1986 levels, leading to "a significant amount of spareworldwide production capacity, in excess of 10 mln bpd."     He said the surplus capacity would lead to continuedvolatility and called for "governmental and regulatory policiesin support of the domestic petroleum industry."     Citing the costs recently imposed by the federalgovernment through the 1986 tax code changes and "Superfund"legislation, Simon called for the repeal of the windfallprofits tax, total decontrol of natural gas and improved accessto federal lands for oil and gas exploration.     Simon did not mention an oil import fee, which many in theindustry have called for as a way of building up the nation'sdomestic operations before imports reach such a level thatnational security might be compromised.     In yesterday's report, the Energy Department said importscould make up 50 pct of U.S. demand by 1995, adding thatPersian Gulf producers will provide as much as 65 pct of thefree world's total oil consumption by that date.     Arguing that "oil is a political tool in every nation onearth," Frank Pitts, chairman of <Pitts Oil Co>, today calledfor a variable oil import fee, among other measures, "beforethe treacherous foothold of the Middle East is irreversible andour national security is compromised."     Royce Wisenbaker, Chairman of Wisenbaker Production Co,agreed, saying that like many federal government programs thatwere set up with good intentions, it would probably turn into a"shambles."     Wisenbaker added that he was optimistic for the future."For those of us who have managed to hold on, the worst isover," he said.     Roger Hemminghaus, President of Diamond Shamrock Refiningand Marketing Co, said he was "enthusiastic about the future,"adding that he expected "an increase in profitability bymidyear." Reuter
NE ELECTRIC SEES HIGHER CONSTRUCTION OUTLAYS New England Electric System <NES>expects its cash construction spending to reach 205 mln dlrsthis year, up from 188 mln dlrs in 1986, the utility said inmaterial distributed at an analysts meeting.    It said spending is expected to advance to 215 mln dlrs in1988 and 220 mln dlrs in 1989.    The utility said these totals exclude spending on NewEngland Hydro-Transmission being built to import electricityfrom Quebec Hydro. New England Electric is the operator of thisventure as well as owning 51 pct of the project.    The venture expects to spend 65 mln dlr this year, 105 mlndlrs next year and 125 mln dlrs in 1989 to build transmissionlines from northern Quebec into New England, the utility said.    New England Electric said internally generated funds willcover all of its power plant construction costs this year and65 pct of the 108 mln dlrs its retail distribution units planto spend in 1987.    The company said it also expects to spend 60 mln dlrs onits oil and gas activities this year, adding internallygenerated funds are expected to provide 85 pct of this total.    New England Electric said it plans to issue 30 mln dlrsworth of pollution control bonds in 1987 and retire additionalhigher cost preferred stock. Its Granite State Electric unitplans to issue five mln dlrs of long term notes early this yearas well.    The company said it does not plan to offer common sharesthis year or in the foreseeable future, but expects to raiseabout 40 mln dlrs in equity through the sale of stock under itsdividend reinvestment plan and employee share plans.    President Samuel Huntington told the analysts theconstruction spending projection is based on the expectationthat demand for electricity in the New England electric systemwill grow about two pct a year for the next 15 years.    However, the utility cannot ignore the potential forsharper growth, he said, pointing out that demand was up 5.2pct in 1986 and 4.7 pct per year in the past four years.    He attributed this growth to declining electricity pricesand a strong New England economy.    Huntington said New England Elecetric has "all but rejectednew coal fired plants" to supply additional power.    He said the most attractive new power supplies are thosewith short lead times which can be built in modules.    Later, vice president Glenn Schleede said the utility islooking at gas-fired, combined cycle generating units to supplymost of its new power needs, but has not rejected coal-firedfluidized bed units.    He explained that fluidized bed technology is available inmodular units, adding that Huntington was referring to thetraditional coal-fired plant which burns pulverized coal. Reuter
DOE SECRETARY PROPOSES OIL TAX INCENTIVES Energy Secretary John Herringtonsaid he will propose tax incentives to increase domestic oiland natural gas exploration and production to the ReaganAdministration for consideration.    "These options boost production, while avoiding the hugecosts associated with proposals like an oil import fee,"Herrington told a House Energy subcommittee hearing. "It is myintention to submit these proposals to the domestic policycouncil and the cabinet for consideration and review."    "The goal of the Administration policies is to increasedomestic production. I would like to shoot for one mln barrelsa day," he said.    The proposals were based on a DOE study released yesterdaywarning the United States was threatened by a growingdependence on oil imports.    "We project free world dependence on Persian Gulf oil at 65pct by 1995," Herrington said. Reuter
MEXICAN HYDROCARBON RESERVES FALL SLIGHTLY IN 1986 mexico's proven reserves of liquidhydrocarbons at end-1986 were 70 billion barrels, slightly downfrom 70.9 billion a year ago and 71.75 billion in 1984, thestate oil company petroleos mexicanos (pemex) announced.    Reserves were just 5.77 billion barrels in 1974, rosesharply to 40.19 billion in 1978 and flattened out at 72billion in both 1981 and 1982.    In its annual report, pemex said average crude output in1986 was 2.43 mln barrels per day, 202,000 bpd down on 1985.Average exports were 1.29 mln bpd, down from 1.44 mln bpd.    The company did not say what percentage of hydrocarbons wascrude oil, but has previouly said it was about 48 pct.    Natural gas output in 1986 was 3.43 billion cubic feet perday, down from 3.6 billion in 1985.    Due mainly to the fall in oil prices to around 12 dlrs from25 dlrs in the year, 58 wells, both exploratory and production,were suspended, 38 of them in less productive areas than theoffshore campeche fields which accounted for 64 pct ofproduction. Reuter
NO IMMEDIATE PLANS TO CLOSE REFINERY - ESSO SAF ESSO SAF <ESSF.PA>, the French subsidiaryof Exxon Corp <XON>, said it had no immediate plans to shutdown one of its two refineries. Exxon's new president Lee R.Raymond said earlier that it could decide to close a Frenchrefinery.    An ESSO SAF spokesman said a closure was a hypothesis thatdepended on the evolution of the market and refineries' abilityto make money. He said Port Jerome west of Paris and Fos surMer on the Mediterranean had benefitted from new investmentover 1985-86 and had last year broken even after stock losses.    The Port Jerome refinery has an annual production capacityof seven mln tonnes while Fos sur Mer's is five mln, thespokesman added.    Industry sources said the easiest plant to dispose of wouldbe Fos sur Mer because it is a single refinery, while the PortJerome refinery is attached to a wider complex comprising apetrochemical plant and a lubricant production plant.    Raymond was quoted as saying in a published interview thatExxon was reviewing its worldwide refinery operations and mightdecide to close one of its French refineries. Reuter
EIA SAYS DISTILLATES OFF 7.6 MLN BBLS, GASOLINE OFF 3.4 MLN, CRUDE OFF East Rand Proprietary Mines Ltdsaid that barring any major disruption in production, itexpects 1987 gold output to top 10 tonnes after dropping to9.223 tonnes last year from 10.251 in 1985.    Chairman Clive Knobbs said in the annual report the minewas expected to mill a higher tonnage while capital expenditureduring 1987 will be around 118.5 mln rand.   The decline in gold production last year was due to a fourpct drop in tonnage milled and a seven pct decline in grade. Reuter
DIVISION SEEN ON HOW TO HELP U.S. OIL INDUSTRY The U.S. Congress and the oil industryare deeply divided on ways the government should assist theindustry, hurt by the sharp fall in oil prices, and thesubsequent growth in oil imports, industry analysts said.    "The industry is deeply divided between those who support anoil tariff and those who believe tax incentives are better,"said Daniel Yergin, director of Cambridge Energy ResearchAssociates, which recently completed a survey of the U.S.Congress on energy issues.    Yergin said he saw mounting support within Congress for taxincentives rather than an oil tariff or import fee.    Today U.S. Energy Secretary John Herington said he willpropose tax incentives to increase edomestic oil and naturalgas exploration and production to the Reagan Administration forconsideration. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said theproposal would be reviewed.    Herrington said, "I would like to shoot for one mln barrelsa day (addition) to U.S. production." U.S. oil output was off to8.4 mln bpd in the week of March 13, down six pct from lastyear, the American Petroleum Institute said.    Oil industry analysts have forecast oil prices to averageabout 18 dlrs a barrel for the year and many believe that amove above that level will be unlikey for the near term.    Paul Mlotok, oil analyst for Salomon Brothers Inc said that"even with the rise in prices for the last week or two we'veonly altered our average price scenerio to about 17.50 dlrs forthe year."    Analysts said that at that price renewed drilling andexploration to reverse the decline in U.S. crude oil outputwill not take place as the companies are waiting for stableprices over 20 dlrs to renew exploration.    John Lichtblau, president of the Petroleum IndustryResearch Foundation Inc in New york in recent testimony toCongress said "The continuing decline in U.S. oil production isvirtually inevitable under any realistic price scenario. Butthe future rate of decline is very much a function of world oilprices and U.S. government policy."    Lichtbalu said that tax breaks could be used to raise oilproduction but would only work over time.    "Lowering the producing industry's tax burden would probablybe a slower stimulant (to output) than a price increase butwould not raise energy costs." Lichtblau said.    But the small independent oil companies who do much of thedrilling in the U.S. are looking for the more immediate reliefwhich could be brought on by an oil import fee.    Ronald Tappmeyer, president of the InternationalAssociation of Drilling Contractors, said, "The members of ourtrade asssociation are convinced that only a variable oilimport fee that sets a minimum price trigger can protect ournation." The association represents some 1,300 drilling and oilservice companies.    The CERA survey of Congress shows that the oil import feewill face a stiff uphill battle.    Yergin said that the poll which was conducted in January bya former Congressman, Orval Hansen, showed support for the oilimport fee from 22 pct of the Congressmen surveyed largely as ameans of protecting the domestic petroleum industry.     At the same time 48 pct of the Congressmen surveyedopposed the fee with the respondents saying the tariff wouldhurt consumers and some regional interests.    But 80 pct of the sample said support for a fee could growif production continued to fall and imports to rise.    Yergin said that imports above 50 pct of U.S. requirements"is a critical, symbolic level. If they (imports) move abovethat level, a fee may not be legislated but there willcertainly be pressure for some form of action."     But Lichtblau, in a telephone interview, said, "a 50 pctrate of import dependency is not likely to happen before 1990.    In 1986 U.S. oil imports rose to 33 pct of u.s. energyrequirements and shopuld be about 34 pct in 1987, he added. Reuter
RECENT U.S. OIL DEMAND UP 2.3 PCT FROM YEAR AGO U.S. oil demand as measured byproducts supplied rose 2.3 pct in the four weeks ended March 13to 16.49 mln barrels per day (bpd) from 16.11 mln in the sameperiod a year ago, the Energy Information Administration (EIA)said.    In its weekly petroleum status report, the EnergyDepartment agency said distillate demand was up 2.9 pct in theperiod to 3.43 mln bpd from 3.33 mln a year earlier.    Gasoline demand averaged 6.93 mln bpd, up 4.0 pct from 6.67mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.31 mln bpd, off7.9 pct from 1.42 mln, the EIA said.    Domestic crude oil production was estimated at 8.36 mlnbpd, down 8.1 pct from 9.10 mln a year ago, and gross dailycrude imports (excluding those for the SPR) averaged 3.70 mlnbpd, up 24.8 pct from 2.96 mln, the EIA said.    Refinery crude runs in the four weeks were 11.92 mln bpd,up 1.0 pct from 11.80 mln a year earlier, it said.    Year-to-date figures will not become available until March26 when EIA's Petroleum Supply Monthly data for January 1987becomes available, the agency said. Reuter
CANTERRA ENERGY TO DRILL WELL OFF NOVA SCOTIA <Canterra Energy Ltd> said itwill drill an exploratory well on the Scotian shelf, about 280kilometers east-southeast of Halifax, Nova Scotia.    Drilling will begin in late April 1987 in 61 meters ofwater and will be drilled to a total depth of 3,500 meters,Canterra said.    Canterra will operate the well and has a 39 pct interest init. <Petro-Canada Inc> has 26 pct, <Trillium Exploration Corp>has 20 pct and <Nova Scotia Resources (Ventures) Ltd> has 15pct. Reuter
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - SAUDI ARABIA RESHAPES ECONOMY Higher world oil prices, coupled with anew realism ushered in by austerity, could lift Saudi Arabia'seconomy after five years of falling revenue and growing budgetdeficits, bankers and diplomats said.    The months ahead will prove critical as the governmentattempts a balancing act between defending higher oil pricesand fostering recovery through a bigger role for the privatesector.    Economists said oil earnings could recover this year toabout 20 billion dlrs and nominal gross domestic product couldgrow by about three pct, the first rise since 1982.    But the economists said this will be possible only if theOrganisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) succeedsin defending world oil prices and if Saudi Arabia is not forcedto curtail output for too long.    Saudi Arabia is now keeping production down to defendOPEC's newly-established 18 dlr a barrel benchmark price.    Oil Minister Hisham Nazer told Reuters output is running atabout three mln barrels per day (bpd), well down on SaudiArabia's OPEC quota of 4.13 mln set for the first half of 1987.    King Fahd has stamped his personal authority on OPEC'snew-found determination to defend prices in a move Westerndiplomats believe underlines the kingdom's need to secure astable source of income for its economy.    Saudi Arabia, still the world's largest oil exporter, is ahugely wealthy country. But the past five years of decliningrevenue have taken their toll. Economists estimate grossdomestic product fell 10 pct last year and 8.6 pct in 1985.    Oil revenue last year, when prices briefly dipped below 10dlrs per barrel, probably totalled no more than 17.5 billiondlrs, compared to a peak 101.8 billion in 1981.    "Austerity is still the watchword, but Saudi Arabia will notbe allowed to dip further into recession ... The Saudis canafford to draw down reserves temporarily to offset the worsteffects," a diplomat said.    In the short-term, the kingdom can lessen the impact oflower oil revenues and a gaping budget deficit by drawing onforeign reserves, still put at around 100 billion dlrs.    But such a policy cannot be pursued indefinitely. Bankersand diplomats said it would amount to fiscal recklessness inthe longer term.    It also increases the dominance of the public sector at atime when the government is publicly urging private enterpriseto take over the lead role in the economy.    Bankers and diplomats said the government is well aware ofthe risks attached to this policy but is determined to "tough itout" on the oil front even if that means a short-term depletionof reserves.    The 1987 budget deficit is targetted at a huge 52.7 billionriyals or 31 pct of total outlay. The budget explicitlyrecognises the need to draw down reserves while foreignborrowing has been ruled out.    Commerce Minister Suleiman Abdulaziz al-Salim told Saudibusinessmen this week the government had carefully consideredthe need to stimulate the economy when drawing up its budgetplans late last year.    "It therefore took the bold step of withdrawing more than 50billion riyals from its reserves and pumping it into theeconomy," he said.    Reserves were built up during the late 1970's and early1980's when Saudi Arabia's breakneck pace of construction andtales of high spending became legendary.    The shrinking economy has wrought huge changes in thefabric of the Kingdom's private sector where poor managementhad gone unpunished in the easy days of the oil boom.    Modern techniques of cost control have been introduced,markets expanded and outsized labour forces and inventories cutback. The expatriate workforce has fallen sharply.    The number of new bankruptcies appears to be declining butSaudi banks, hit hard by non-performing loans to the corporatesector, have become highly selective in extending new credit.    Government moves to encourage lending and investigatecompany complaints about late public sector contract paymentscould boost confidence but recession has slowed the nation'sindustrialisation program and discouraged foreign investment.    Private wealth is still very high and banks report more andmore cash being placed on deposit.    As Saudi Arabia attempts to shift the weight of economicdevelopment from the public to the private sector, one of thebiggest tasks will be to convince businessmen to channelpersonal savings into industrial projects within the kingdomand refrain from the temptation to invest abroad. REUTER
CANADIAN ROXY IN NEW ALBERTA OIL DISCOVERY <Canadian Roxy Petroleum Ltd>said a new oil discovery in the Peerless Lake area ofnorth-central Alberta is capable of flowing at over 1,000barrels of oil a day from a lower zone and more than 1,500barrels a day from a separate upper zone.    Canadian Roxy has a 35 pct interest in the five-yearroyalty free well, known as the Canadian Roxy et Al TroutA14-8-89-3 W5M. Texaco Canada Inc holds 25 pct, MLC Oil and GasLtd 15 pct, Northstar Energy Corp 13.5 pct and Tricentrol OilsLtd 11.5 pct.    Canadian Roxy said drilling has started on a follow-upexploratory well about one mile northwest of the discoverywell.    The company said it holds a net 6,500 acres in the vicinityof the discovery and a seismic program is underway to evaluatefurther drilling opportunities. Reuter
U.S. ENERGY CHIEF SEES PROMISE IN OIL-TAX CHANGE Energy Secretary John Herringtonsaid his proposed option to raise the oil depletion allowanceto 27.5 pct was probably the most economically promising way tospur domestic production.    The White House has said it would consider the optionalthough it was generally opposed to any revisions in the newtax code.    Herrington told a meeting of the Mid-Continent Oil and GasAssociation that the higher depletion allowance on new oil andenhanced oil recovery would cost taxpayers about 200 mln dlrs ayear.    The option was one of many contained in a report on oil andthe national security the Energy Department sent to the WhiteHouse on Tuesday.    Herrington said of the increased depletion allowanceoption: "that is one that could significantly increaseproduction at a very low cost to the American taxpayer."    He again rejected an oil import fee as far too costly tothe overall U.S. economy. Reuter
U.S. ENERGY SECRETARY RULES OUT GASOLINE TAX Energy Secretary John Herringtonsaid he would rule out a tax on gasoline as one option to helpavert what his departmet has called the threat of increasedreliance on foreign oil in the coming years.    He said at a news conference that any recommendation hewould make would have to increase domestic production, notcause widespread economic hardship and have a minimal cost tothe U.S. taxpayer.    On the grounds of increasing production, he said, "I wouldrule out a gasoline tax."    Herrington also repeated he would rule out an oil importfee because of the widespread dislocation it would cause -- theloss of about 400,000 jobs nationwide due to higher oil pricesand a drop in the gross national product by about 32 billiondlrs.    He said an increased depletion allowance, to 27.5 pct, onnew and enhanced production of oil and natural gas would be acheap way to spur domestic production.    He estimated this cost at about 200 mln dlrs a year.    Herrington proposed the increased depletion allowance tothe White House Tuesday but the White House reaction was cool.    The White House said it would study the proposal, but wasgenerally oppposed to altering the national tax code, justpassed last year.    Herrington, asked his reaction to the White House reaction,said, "If I were the White House, I would be cool, too." Reuter
U.S. ENERGY CHIEF RULES OUT GASOLINE TAX AS WAY TO AVERT PENDING OI North Carolina Savings and LoanAssociation elected J. Graham Harwood its chairman, and R.Martin Hall its president and chief operating officer.    The company said the chairman's post has been vacant twoand a half years.    It also said Harwood, who was president, would retain hischief executive officer's position. Reuter
BRITOIL SEES LOWER U.K. EXPLORATION EXPENDITURE Britoil Plc's <BTOL.L> explorationexpenditure for the U.K. In 1987 was likely to be only about athird of the level in 1986, though overseas expenditure wouldremain approximately the same, Chief executive David Walkersaid.    He told reporters following the release of the company's1986 figures that project expenditure would also remain at 1986levels.    U.K. Project expenditure in 1986 rose to 208 mln stg from184 mln while exploration expenditure dropped to 87 mln from156 mln. Overseas exploration fell to 28 mln from 58 mln in1985.    Earlier, Britoil posted a drop in pretax profit for 1986 to134 mln stg from 759 mln in 1985, before an extraordinarycharge of 50 mln stg on the company's U.S. Assets. The resultswere slightly better than analysts forecast and the sharefirmed to 231p from 222p at last night's close. Chairman SirPhilip Shelbourne said the collapse in the oil price in 1986had made the period extremely difficult but the company hadcome through remarkably well.    Provided the recovery in oil prices was maintained, theconditions would be right for a substantially improvedperformance this year.    He added that the firmness of oil prices in March, whenthey were normally weaker, made him "a bit encouraged" about theprospects for future levels.    Walker added that Britoil would feel confident if the pricestayed within a band of 15 dlrs to 20 dlrs a barrel.    Britoil had received some 100 responses to its announcementof a desire to sell the assets and was asking for bids by thelatter part of April.    End-year reserves rose to 603 mln barrels of oil comparedwith 503 mln previously. However, Walker noted that thisincluded a revised definition of reserves.    If 1985 figures were restated along the same lines, thereserve figure would show a drop from 720 mln barrelspreviously.    Gas reserves also eased to 3,568 billion cubic feet from arestated 3,660 billion.
API SAYS U.S. CRUDE OIL OUPUT OFF FROM YEAR AGO The American Petroleum Institutesaid that U.S. crude oil production in February declined 9.8pct from year-ago levels to about 8.3 mln barrels a day.    In its monthly report on U.S. oil supplies and stocks, APIsaid that domestic demand for petroleum products, as measuredby products supplied, continued to rise reaching 16.3 mlnbarrels a day in the month, up 1.5 pct from February 1986.    API noted the drop in crude oil output coupled with adrop in natural gas liquids production, which was off 11 pctfrom February 1986 levels, represented a decline in U.S.production of more than one mln barrels a day.    API said the decline in domestic production and the rise indemand brought petroleum imports to about six mln barrels a dayin February, a 30.3 pct increase from last year's level.    So far this year, API said growth in domestic demand, whichwas up 2.9 pct from last year's year-to-date level, has slowedin comparison to the accelerated growth in the last half of1986.    It said crude oil production for the first two months of1987 was off 8.6 pct from the comparable year-ago period whilecrude imports were up 30.6 pct. Reuter
UK CROSS FIELD PRT RELIEF FAVOURS SMALLER FIELDS The "cross field allowance" relief onPetroleum Revenue Tax (PRT) announced by U.K. Chancellor of theExchequer Nigel Lawson this week will favour smaller non-PRTpaying fields, according to stockbrokers Wood Mackenzie and Co.    The cross field allowance offsets up to 10 pct ofqualifying spending on a new oil field against PRT liability ofother fields. It is restricted to new offshore developmentsoutside the southern basin and yet to gain Annex B approval.    A report by the stockbrokers said that on a new field notpaying PRT due to its small size, the relief would directlybenefit in PRT saving on an existing field.    "The cross field allowance will mainly benefit participatorsin those fields which have no PRT liability," the report said,adding that the timing of development of such fields may beadvanced.    The government would in effect be subsidising thesedevelopments at 7.5 pct of capital expenditure beforecorporation tax, the report said.    On fields likely to pay PRT in the future, the benefit isof timing. Although liabilities on other existing fields willbe reduced immediately, liabilities on larger new fields willrise in the future due to the loss of offsets, it said.    In a study on probable fields, the report said that whenthe rates of return are examined, the rise for a PRT-payingfield such as Miller, the largest undeveloped oil field in theU.K. North Sea, is from 18.7 to 19 pct, while the rise for asmall non-PRT paying field such as Kittiwake is 15.9 to 17.9pct.    The report added that in fields which pay PRT, there willbe a cost in being able to have this early relief. Not onlywill these costs be unavailable for offset against the field'sfuture profits, but uplift of some 35 pct on these costs willbe lost.    Thus, a saving of PRT of 100 when field development startswill have to be matched by a rise in PRT of 135 at a latertime. Reuter
ECUADOR GETS LOAN TO HELP REPAIR OIL PIPELINE The Andean Development Corp (CAF) saidtoday it is lending 11.7 mln dlrs to Ecuador to help repair 25miles of oil pipeline destroyed by an earthquake earlier thismonth.    the loan was signed here today in the offices of thecaracas based caf by the corporation's president, galo montanoperez and ecuadorean ambassador antonio parra gil.    the loan had originally been intended to finance anexpansion of the pipeline, but following the earthquake theecuadorean government asked for the terms to be changed so asto permit their use in reconstruction.    Ecuador expects oil production to be suspended for fourmonths as a result of the damage, and has asked Venezuela tohelp by supplying 50,000 barrels per day while the pipeline isrepaired.    The OPEC member has a production quota of 210,000 bpd buthas asked the organization to allow it to produce 310,000 bpdonce the repairs are completed so as to compensate the loss. Reuter
REAGAN SAYS U.S. MUST DO MORE TO LESSEN RELIANCE ON FOR President Reagan said the UnitedStates must do more to lessen its reliance on imported oil.    President Reagan said during a nationally televised newsconference that the rising U.S. reliance on foreign oil is aproblem that the administration is studying.    "We have to study this more," Reagan said. "This is why weincreased the Strategic (Petroleum) Reserve, but we have to domore," he said.    Reagan said his administration has already proposedderegulating natural gas and eliminating the windfall profitstax on crude oil production.    However, he complained that Congress had not yet approvedthose measures.    The Department of Energy earlier this week released areport that warned of rising U.S. reliance on foreign oilimports at a time when domestic production is declining. Itsuggested options for the administration to consider, but madeno specific recommendations. Reuter
REAGAN SAYS U.S. NEEDS TO LESSEN OIL IMPORTS President Reagan said the UnitedStates must do more to lessen its reliance on imported oil.    President Reagan said during a nationally televised newsconference that the rising U.S. reliance on foreign oil is aproblem that the administration is studying.    "We have to study this more," Reagan said. "This is why weincreased the Strategic (Petroleum) Reserve, but we have to domore," he said.    Reagan said his administration has already proposedderegulating natural gas and eliminating the windfall profitstax on crude oil production.    However, he complained that Congress had not yet approvedthose measures.    The Department of Energy earlier this week released areport that warned of rising U.S. reliance on foreign oilimports at a time when domestic production is declining. Itsuggested options for the administration to consider, but madeno specific recommendations. Reuter
TRICO <TRO> GETS CHINESE CONTRACT Trico Industries Inc said it hasreceived a six mln dlr contract to supply hydraulic liftequipment for heavy crude oil production for the ChineseMinistry of Petroleum Industry.    The company said the equipment is for use in the Laioheoilfield 350 miles northeast of Peking and will equip a140-well program. Reuter
GULF CANADA <GOC> ASSERTS NO DAMAGE FROM SPILL Gulf Canada Corp said adischarge of material at its Amauligak drilling site in theBeaufort Sea caused no danger to the environment.    Yesterday, the federal department of energy charged GulfCanada with eight counts of illegal dumping for dischargingpowdered cement and drilling mud between September 23 and 30last year.    The charges carry a maximum 50,000 dlr fine on each count.    Gulf said the government's charges relate to dischargingmaterials without a permit, not to environmental damageresulting from the action.    Gulf said it voluntarily informed appropriate governmentofficials when the material was discharged.    The company also said none of the material was dischargedwithin 12 miles of the closest shoreline. It added that one ofthe materials cited, barite, is a naturally occurring mineralroutinely discharged into the sea during drilling operations. Reuter
TALKING POINT/FIRST CITY BANCORPORATION <FBT> First City Bancorporation's sale of 54mln dlrs in oil loans to Prudential-Bache should significantlyreduce its energy problems, but the bank's losses are stillvirtually guaranteed to continue, analysts said.    The package of energy loans was sold at book value, soFirst City did not to show a gain or loss, said bank spokesmanJames Day. He added it was possible First City would sell moreof the bank's remaining 1.4 billion dlrs in oil-related loansto raise cash.    The loans had been made by First City to oil producers andto oilfield service and supply companies. Day said some hadalready been classified as nonperforming, or charged off as aloss, but he could not identify how many were included in thosecategories.    The loans were purchased by Prudential Bache's EnergyGrowth Fund, a limited partnership created last month with 90mln dlrs in funding to invest in oil and gas properties.    First City, the big Texas bank hit hardest by the downturnin oil prices, lost a record 402 mln dlrs in fiscal year 1986and has said it is seeking a merger partner or some othercapital assistance. The Houston-based bank's nonperformingassets totaled 897.1 mln dlrs at yearend, up from 563.1 mlndlrs at the end of 1985    Analysts have said no buyer is likely to be interested inthe troubled bank unless government assistance is available.    "Their problems are not just limited to energy. They have asubstantial portfolio in real estate. This sale in and ofitself won't make the company look better to a potentialbuyer," said Ray Archibold, a banking analyst with McCarthy,Crisanti and Maffei Inc.    "It does reduce the bank's exposure in energy loans and 54mln dlrs is a substantial amount," Archibold said, "but thedeal represents only about four pct of their energy loans."    Of First City's total loan portfolio of 9.9 mln dlrs, about14 pct or 1.4 billion dlrs were made to energy producers orsuppliers, analysts said. Its record losses have been caused byits past status as one of the nation's top lenders to oil andgas producers and suppliers during the boom days of the late1970s and early 1980s.    First City said about half of the loans sold to Prudentialcame from its Energy Finance Co., an entity formed in 1982 toloan money to "more venturesome" oil borrowers that promised ahigher potential return. The other half of the loans were fromFirst City's lead bank in Houston.    Chris Kotowski, an analyst with Oppenheimer and Co., saidthe sale of the package of energy loans was the firstencouraging news from First City in months.    "It's not going to solve all of First City's problems butit's a good transaction for them. It may be possible for themto sell additional loans," Kotowski said. "Prudential can fundthese things more cheaply than First City and there's anincentive to invest in troubled energy companies right now asvalues are depressed"    In a statement, First City chairman J.A. Elkins said thebank's strategy was to reduce the proportion of energy loans tototal loans. "This move, which we believe is the firsttransaction of its kind, helps us further, and we were able tomake it without suffering a loss." Reuter
FTC URGES VETO OF GEORGIA GASOLINE STATION BILL The Federal Trade Commission saidits staff has urged the governor of Georgia to veto a bill thatwould prohibit petroleum refiners from owning and operatingretail gasoline stations.    The proposed legislation is aimed at preventing large oilrefiners and marketers from using predatory or monopolisticpractices against franchised dealers.    But the FTC said fears of refiner-owned stations as part ofa scheme of predatory or monopolistic practices are unfounded.It called the bill anticompetitive and warned that it wouldforce higher gasoline prices for Georgia motorists. Reuter
BIDS AWARDED FOR ELK HILLS CRUDE OIL The U.S. Department of Energy saidit has awarded bids for about 90,000 barrels per day, bpd, ofcrude oil from the Elk Hills Naval Petroleum Reserve inCalifornia. The contract period runs from April one throughJuly one, the DOE said.    Successful bidders, the amount of crude oil and the priceper bbl according to the DOE are as follows -     Texaco Inc's <TX> Texaco Trading and Transport 15,000 bpdat 15.79 dlrs and 2,200 bpd at 15.19 dlrs, Beacon Oil Co 7,000bpd at 15.66 dlrs and 2,500 bpd at 16.04 dlrs, Golden WestRefining 8,110 bpd at 15.42 dlrs.    Successful bidders, the amount of oil and price per bbl,according to the DOE continue as follows -    Chevron's <CHV> Chevron USA Inc 3,000 bpd at 14.51 dlrs and4,000 bpd at 14.61 dlrs, Chevron International Oil Co 2,600 bpdat 14.41 dlrs and 2,800 bpd at 14.51 dlrs, Newhall Refining Co6,000 bpd at 15.82 dlrs, Caljet Inc 4,000 bpd at 15.32 dlrs,Casey Co 4,000 bpd at 15.45 dlrs.    Also, Cryssen Refining Inc 4,000 bpd at 15.47 dlrs,Edgington Oil Co 4,000 bpd at 15.54 dlrs, Sound Refining Inc3,100 bpd at 15.51 dlrs, Atlantic Richfield Co <ARC> 3,000 bpdat 15.75 dlrs.    Successful bidders, the amount of crude oil and the priceper bbl according to the DOE continue as follows -    Orkin Inc 2,679 bpd at 15.24 dlrs, Lunday-Thagard Co 2,511bpd at 15.27 dlrs, Golden Eagle Refining 2,500 bpd at 15.37dlrs, MacMillan Ring-Free Oil Co 1,000 bpd at 15.81 dlrs, 1,000bpd at 15.71 dlrs and 230 bpd at 16.02 dlrs, Mock Resources2,000 bpd at 15.76 dlrs, Petro-Diamond 2,000 bpd at 15.46 dlrs. Reuter
NATURAL GAS SEEN RECAPTURING SOME MARKET SHARE Higher crude oil prices will raisedemand for natural gas, helping it to reclaim market share lostto heavy oil when prices plunged in 1986, analysts said.    The analysts said that these efforts will be mostsuccessful in the industrial sectors of the economy with largeand growing energy requirements.    "Natural gas stands a good chance to recapture the share ofoil supplied to electric utilities that it lost to the residualfuel industry last year," Michael Smolinski, an energyeconomist with Data Resources Inc, told Reuters.    An estimated 200,000 barrels per day of residual fuel wentinto the utilities market at the expense of natural gas lastyear when world oil prices plunged, Smolinski said.     Assuming oil prices hold above 15 dlrs a barrel, nationalaverage gas prices delivered to the utilities at a projected2.10 to 2.25 dlrs per mln Btu would be very competitive,Michael German, vice president of economic analysis at AmericanGas Association said.    The average delivered prices at the end of January were2.10 dlrs per mln Btu, compared with 3.26 dlrs a year ago.    "We expect natural gas to regain 250 to 400 billion cubicfeet (of demand) in the overall energy market in the second andthird quarter (1987)," he said.    In addition to price competitiveness, availability will bean important factor persuading energy users to switch to gas,Frank Spadine, senior energy economist with Bankers Trust Corp.in New York noted.    Spadine said the mild winter in many parts of the NorthAmerican continent has led to a build up of gas inventories andless would be necessary to replenish underground storage thisspring freeing gas for spot sales.    These forecasts develop a strong counterpoint to the fearsthat natural gas suplies would be tight and pricessignificantly higher given a sharp decline in drilling lastyear.    AGA's German contended that despite the drilling decline,much of U.S. proved reserves could be brought to productionquickly through developments such as the infill drilling whichpermits more wells to be drilled in proved reserve basins.    Citing recent EIA statistics, German said, the gas surpluswas likely to contract from three trillion cubic feet in 1986to two trillion cubic feet in 1987, but the surplus would notgo away until 1990.    Smolinski of Data Resources agreed that the surplus wouldpersist until 1990. While gas supplies may tighten in certainconsuming areas, notably in California and in the NortheastU.S., an overall shortfall appeared remote. Reuter
WORLD BANK LIKELY TO URGE CHANGES ON JAKARTA World Bank President Barber Conable isexpected to press Indonesia, the Third World's sixth largestdebtor, to maintain the momentum of economic policy changes totackle the slump in its oil revenues, western diplomats said.    Conable, who flew to Indonesia yesterday from Tokyo, willmeet with President Suharto and senior economic ministers.    He said on arrival that the economy of South-East Asia'slargest nation was being managed well, but the slump in worldoil prices called for major policy adjustments.    Today the World Bank chief will visit Bank-funded projectsin the eastern section of Java, Indonesia's most populousisland. He will see Suharto on Tuesday after a day of detaileddiscussions with ministers tomorrow.    Indonesia, the only Asian member of OPEC, has been severelyhit by last year's crash in oil prices, which cut its oil andgas revenues in half.    Japan's state Export-Import Bank last month agreed toprovide around 900 mln dlrs in untied credits to help Indonesiapay for its share of 21 World Bank development projects.    Indonesia, a country of 168 mln people, has responded tothe oil slump by cutting spending, devaluing its currency by 31pct, and trying to boost exports, while using foreign loans tobridge its deficit.    Diplomats said that Conable was expected to press Suhartoand leading economic ministers to maintain the pace of policychange, particularly in dismantling Indonesia's high-costprotected economy.    "Oil prices, the debt crisis, the world recession, all callfor major policy adjustments and external support," Conable saidin his arrival statement.    But with Indonesia facing parliamentary elections nextmonth, he is likely to avoid anything which would imply thatthe Bank is demanding specific changes.    "We believe there has been wise leadership here and theeconomy is being very well managed," Conable told reporters atJakarta airport.    Indonesia has official and private overseas debts totalling37 billion dlrs, according to the Bank, which makes it theThird World's sixth biggest debtor. It has received 10.7billion dlrs from the World Bank since 1968.    Conable did not spell out what further changes he wouldlike to see. Last month the Bank endorsed economic changesalready introduced by Indonesia, but implied it wanted more.    Giving a 300 mln dlr loan in balance of payments support,the Bank said it will monitor progress on implementation of thegovernment's trade reform measures, and supported itsdetermination to promote efficiency and longer-term growth.    Indonesia has introduced a series of measures since lastMay to boost non-oil exports, liberalise trade and encourageoutside investment.    Suharto has also ordered a government committee to lookinto which of Indonesia's 215 state-run companies could besold.    But in a report last month, the U.S. Embassy said thegovernment appeared divided over how far to take its reforms.    Western analysts say that in particular the government isunsure how far to go with dismantling Indonesia's high-costmonopolies, which control core areas of the economy.    Central bank governor Arifin Siregar said this week thatIndonesia faced very limited economic choices.    It could not spend its way out of trouble because thiswould increase the balance of payments deficit and domesticinflation.     He said the main objective was to raise exports outsidethe oil and natural gas sector.    Indonesia's current account deficit is projected by thegovernment to fall to 2.64 billion dlrs in the coming financialyear which starts on April 1, from an estimated 4.1 billion in1986/87. REUTER
EXPLOSION AT BP OIL REFINERY IN SCOTLAND An explosion followed bya fire ripped through a British Petroleum (BP) oil refinery,killing one man.    A BP spokesman said the fire was confined to one plant atthe 700-acre refinery at Grangemouth, 25 miles west ofEdinburgh. The cause and extent of the damage had yet to bedetermined.    Two people were killed in a previous explosion and fire atthe plant on March 13. That incident is still beinginvestigated, the spokesman said. REUTER
SANTOS BIDS FOR OIL AND GAS COMPANY TMOC RESOURCES Cooper Basin oil producer Santos Ltd<STOS.S> said it will bid 4.00 dlrs a share for the 96.03 pctit does not already hold in diversified oil and gas company<TMOC Resources Ltd>.    Santos said the bid values TMOC at 248.5 mln dlrs. It saidit already holds 1.91 mln of TMOC's 25 cent par shares.    TMOC held interests outside the Cooper Basin region ofSouth Australia and Queensland and the acquisition wouldfurther the Santos objective of developing as a broadly basedoil and gas company with interests outside its existing base inthe Cooper Basin, the company said in a statement.    Santos said TMOC holds several important domestic oil andgas production, exploration and pipeline interests.    In the Northern Territory it has a 43.75 pct stake in andoperates the Mereenie oil and gas field in the Amadeus Basinand owns 32 pct of <N.T. Gas Pty Ltd>, owner and operator ofthe Alice Springs to Darwin gas pipeline.    In Queensland, TMOC has extensive interests in the SuratBasin, including the 100 pct owned and operated Moonie oilfield and 33 pct of the Boxleigh gas field.    TMOC owns 80 pct of the <Moonie Pipeline Co Pty Ltd> whichowns and operates the Moonie to Brisbane oil pipeline.    TMOC also holds 25 pct of the Jackson to Moonie oilpipeline, 20 pct owned by Santos. Output from the Naccowlahblock, 40 pct owned by Santos, provides the bulk of thethroughput of both pipelines.    TMOC has exploration interests in a number of areas in theAmadeus, Surat, Eromanga and Canning basins.    It also has oil and gas interests in Britain's North Sea,Ecuador, and the U.S., Along with gold and base metalproduction through its associate <Paringa Mining andExploration Co Plc>, Santos said. REUTER
AUSTRALIA SAID TO RELY TOO MUCH ON OIL TAXES The government'sover-reliance on revenue from crude oil is adversely affectingAustralia's economic performance, Australian PetroleumExploration Association (APEA) chairman Dennis Benbow said.    Over one-third of Australia's indirect tax income isderived from oil at a time of falling domestic output and weakcrude prices, he told the APEA annual conference here.    This dependence on oil-generated revenue distorts thecountry's economic performance directly by acting as adisincentive to new exploration and indirectly by affectingtrading competitiveness through high energy costs, he said.    Australia's medium-term liquid fuel self-sufficiencyposition is posing a major economic threat, yet thegovernment's response has been to load new tax burdens on theoil industry, Benbow said.    Domestic oil output from existing fields is expected tofall to 280,000 barrels per day (bpd) in fiscal 1992/93 from546,000 bpd in 1985/86, reflecting mainly the decline of theBass Strait fields, he said.    Bass Strait reserves are now two-thirds depleted, with thethree largest fields 80 pct depleted, he said.    By 1992/93, Bass Strait output is expected to be just overhalf the 1985/86 level, assuming a number of so far undevelopedfields are brought on stream and enhanced recovery fromexisting fields goes ahead, Benbow said.    Government projections of output from as yet undiscoveredfields range from 40,000 to 130,000 bpd, he said.    Australian liquid fuel demand is forecast to rise to680,000 bpd in 1992/93 from 565,000 in 1985/86, implying acrude oil gap of between 270,000 and 360,000 bpd in five yearstime, he said.    At present world oil prices and the current value of theAustralian dollar, annual oil imports in 1992/93 would costbetween 3.2 billion and 3.6 billion dlrs, Benbow said.    Despite intensive exploration in the early 1980's, theaddition to reserves has been inadequate, he said.    For example, the 409 mln barrels discovered in the fiveyears 1980-84 represent about two years' consumption, he said.    He called on the government to review its tax policies torestore incentive to exploration. REUTER
EXXON OFFICIAL URGES PLANNING FOR NEXT OIL SURGE World governmentsshould prepare for an inevitable significant increase in theprice of oil as non-Middle East supplies diminish, Exxon Corp<XON> director and senior vice-president Donald McIvor said.    Policymakers must also face up to the reality that the bulkof world oil reserves lies in the Middle East, he said in aspeech prepared for delivery to the Australian PetroleumExploration Association (APEA) annual conference.    It appears ever more likely that new discoveries elsewherewill not change this fact, he said.    McIvor said 37 of the world's 30,000 oil fields containabout 35 pct of all oil ever discovered.    Only 11 of these 37 super-giant fields lie outside theMiddle East and only five of the 37 have been discovered in thelast 20 years, three of them in the Middle East, he said.    He also said that since 1970, the world has been consuming20 to 25 billion barrels a year while making discoveries at therate of only 10 to 15 billion barrels a year.    More than half of remaining proved reserves are in theMiddle East, he said.    McIvor said it was important to continue to search for oiloutside the Middle East because each addition contributes to adiversity of supply desirable for global political and economicstability.    "It is important to enhance the likelihood of home-countrydiscoveries with measures such as non-discriminatory and stabletaxation, and minimum regulation, together with opening up ofacreage for exploration," he said.    Increasing reliance on the Middle East will also boost theincentive to use natural gas and synthetic sources ofpetroleum, he added. REUTER
AUSTRALIAN OIL TAX CUT SEEN BOOSTING OUTPUT A 10 percentagepoint reduction in the Australian government's maximum crudeoil levy on old oil would stabilize Bass Straits oil output,resources analyst Ian Story said here.    A reduction to 70 pct from 80 pct would enable Bass Straitoutput to be maintained at the current rate of 420,000 barrelsper day (BPD) for the next year rather than falling to 380,000BPD in 1987/88, he told the Australian Petroleum ExplorationAssociation annual conference.    Story is an analyst with and a director of Sydneystockbroker Meares and Philips Ltd.    Windfall profits taxes on Bass Strait crude are no longerappropriate in the current economic climate, Story said.    The maximum 80 pct levy on old oil -- that discoveredbefore September 1975 -- is now forcing the Broken Hill Pty CoLtd <BRKN.S>/Exxon Corp <XON> partnership to shut-inproduction, accelerating the decline in output and reducinggovernment revenue, he said.    He said the producer return per barrel at a price of 30Australian dlrs a barrel would rise to 2.07 dlrs from 0.80 dlrsif the levy was cut to 70 pct.    "The economics at an 80 pct levy are simply not attractiveat oil prices below 30 dlrs," Story said.    Cutting the maximum levy rate to 70 pct would create higherlevels of self-sufficiency, increase government revenue, boostexports and provide incentives for exploration and development,he said.    The government is currently reviewing the oil taxstructure. REUTER
BP GRANGEMOUTH REFINERY SHUT, HYDROCRACKER DAMAGED The entire British Petroleum Co PLCrefinery at Grangemouth in Scotland has been shut downfollowing the explosion and fire that severely damaged thehydrocracker at the site, a refinery spokesman said.    He said the rest of the 178,500 bpd refinery, including the19,000 bpd catalytic cracker, was undamaged. The whole refinerywas closed pending enquiries but a decision when to reopen themain units will be taken in the next couple of days, he said.    But there was extensive damage to the central part of the32,000 bpd hydrocracker, which upgrades heavy oil products togasoline, and it will be out of operation for some months.    The spokesman said BP will not suffer supply shortages as aresult of the explosion as it will be able to bring in productfrom other sources. BP has a 437,000 bpd refinery in Rotterdam,a 181,900 bpd unit at Ingolstadt, West Germany, a 181,900 bpdplant at Lavera in France and a smaller Swedish plant.    He said the explosion and fire, in which one worker waskilled, occurred when the hydrocracker was not in operation.    The refinery as a whole had been operating at about half ofits capacity since the end of January while an extensiveoverhaul was carried out on the North Side of the complex wherethe hydrocracker is sited, he said.    This work was scheduled to be completed by mid-April, butthis is now being assessed following the hydrocracker accident.    Two people were killed in an explosion and fire in a flareline at the Grangemouth refinery on March 13, but the spokesmansaid this incident was some 100 yards from the latest accident. REUTER
IRAQ REPORTS RAIDS IRAN'S NOWRUZ OIL FIELD Iraq said its warplanes launched twobombing raids on Iran's offshore Nowruz oilfield in thenorthern Gulf today.    A military spokesman, quoted by the official Iraqi newsagency, said platforms at the field were reduced "to rubble."    He said attacks on the field, 55 miles northwest of Iran'sKharg Island oil terminal, were carried out at 0600 GMT. Hesaid today's raids "fall within Iraq's policy to deprive Iranianrulers of oil revenue used to serve their aggressive aims."    Iraqi planes yesterday raided the nearby Ardeshir oilfield, resuming attacks on Iranian targets after a month-longlull. REUTER
IRAN SAYS IT INTENDS NO THREAT TO GULF SHIPPING Iran said reports that it intended tothreaten shipping in the Gulf were baseless, and warned theU.S. And other countries not to interfere in the region.    Tehran radio, monitored by the BBC, quoted a ForeignMinistry spokesman as saying any attempt at interference wouldbe met by "a strong response from Iran and other Moslems in theworld."     U.S. Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger, in remarksapparently unrelated to the broadcast, said the U.S. Would dowhatever was necessary to keep shipping lanes open in the faceof new Iranian anti-ship missiles in the Gulf.    The U.S. State Department said two days ago Tehran had beentold of U.S. Concern that Iranian anti-ship missiles posed athreat to the free flow of oil from the Gulf.    U.S. Officials have said Iran has new Chinese-madeanti-ship "Silkworm" missiles, which pose a greater threat tomerchant ships than missiles used before.    The Iranian spokesman said the reports that Iran intendedto attack ships were "misleading propaganda."    He said Iraq's President Saddam Hussein was the main causeof tension in the Gulf and said Iran would continue to use "allits legitimate means to stem the cause of tension."    Weinberger said in a television interview in the U.S. "Weare fully prepared to do what's necessary to keep the shippinggoing and keep the freedom of navigation available in that veryvital waterway."    "We aren't going into any disclosures or discussions of whatmight happen, but we are certainly very sympathetic to andlistening carefully to any suggestions for our assistance inkeeping navigation free in that area," he said.    Weinberger said U.S warship movements in the Gulf area werenot unusual.    A U.S. Navy battle group led by the aircraft carrier KittyHawk is currently in the northern Arabian Sea.    The Iranian spokesman was quoted by Tehran radio as sayingthe U.S. Was trying to build up its military presence in theregion. REUTER
STUDY SAYS OIL PRICE FALL SPURS BANKRUPTCIES The sharp drop in world oil pricesthe past year triggered a 60 pct increase in bankruptcies inthe country's oil states, according to a study released by theAmerican Petroleum Institute (API).    API said the Dunn and Bradstreet study found that businessfailures rose nationally by 6.9 pct in 1986 over 1985, but inthe "oil patch" of the Southwest the increase was 59.9 pct.    It said bankruptcies in Texas were up 57.4 pct, Oklahoma,55.9 pct, Colorado, 55.8 pct and Louisiana, 46.6 pct.    In Alaska, failures rose by 66.2 per cent, it said.    API also said that three of the states with the highestnumber of bank failures last year were large oil and gasproducers - Texas, Oklahoma and Kansas. Reuter
WORLD DEPENDENCY ON MIDEAST OIL SAID INEVITABLE The world's dependency on the Mideastas the source for its petroleum is growing and nothing is goingto stop it, Donald K. McIvor, an Exxon Corp <XON> Director andsenior vice president told Reuters in an interview.    "Non-OPEC production will begin to decline and the gapbetween demand and supply will widen so that the trend toincreasing dependence on OPEC and the Middle East isinevitable," McIvor said.    Decreased supplies will firm prices for crude oil but arenot likely to change a growing dependence, McIvor said.    McIvor, Exxon's senior vice president responsible for oiland gas exploration and production said that dependence wouldresult from the Mideast's large spare capacity at a time whenthe rest of the world consumes more oil than it was finding.    "Since 1970 we've been consuming oil at rates of 20-25billion barrels per year while making new discoveries of onlyabout 10-15 bilion barrels per year," McIvor said.    "The bulk of the inventory and more than half of theremaining proved reserves lies in the middle east which isproducing at much less than current capacity," he added.    McIvor said that of the some 30,000 oil fields discoveredso far only 37 "one-one thousandth of the total number containedabout 35 pct of all the oil ever discovered."    McIvor said, in response to a question, that he did notbelieve there were any more "super giants", or oil fields withreserves greater than five billion barrels, to be found whichwould change the conclusion of the world's growing dependency.    "Of those 37 super giants only 11 lie outside the MiddleEast. Only five of the 37 have been discovered in the past 20years and only two of these lie outside the middle east(Cantarell in Mexico and Alaska's North Slope)." McIvor said.    McIvor said that many of the large fields outside the U.S.like Alaska's Prudhoe Bay and the North Sea were reaching apeak and would soon begin to decline.    But the Exxon executive said that there were still plentyof opportunities to be explored and developed outside of theMiddle east, particulartly in Canada, the North Sea, andAustralia and Africa.    McIvor said that decisions to explore and drill in thoseareas would be depedent upon both the expectations of a higherprice of oil as well as the legal regime affecting thecompanies.    "The ideal regime is a stable one not one where there is aconstant change in policies," McIvor said.    McIvor said he opposed import subsidies or tariffs used toincrease exploration as these only benefit one part of theeconomy at the expense of other parts of the economy.    Asked about the options offered this week by U.S. EnergySecretary Herrington to increase U.S. production McIvor said hecould not comment on subjects like the oil depletion allowancenow but "the thrust of his (Herrington) report is valid. It hashighlighted the growing dependency on the Middle east and theneed to increase U.S. production."    McIvor also said that he expected natural gas to play agreater role in the future in meeting energy needs.    "Natural gas will have the opportunity to become anincreasingly important part of the worlkd's energy supply,"McIvor said.    "Crude oil will be used more and more as a transportationfuel and natural gas will be used more to generate heat, as anindustrial fuel," he added. Reuter
PATRICK PETROLEUM <PPC> TO BUY BAYOU Patrick Petroleum Co said itsigned a definitive agreement to buy Bayou Resources Inc.    As previously announced, the transaction is valued at about8.8 mln dlrs, including 2.8 mln dlrs in debt.    Under the agreement, Patrick will pay six dlrs per sharefor each Bayou share, with additional value being given forBayou's preferred and options. Bayou has 827,000 shares out.    Depending upon the results of the re-evaluation of asignificant Bayou well as of Jan. 1, 1988, Bayou stockholdersmay receive up to an additional two mln dlrs in stock and cash,which has not been included in the 8.8 mln dlrs. Reuter
IRAQ OIL MINISTER QASSEM AHMED TAQI REPLACED, IRAQI NEWS AGENCY Guy F. Atkinson Co of Californiasaid its Commonwealth Construction Co unit received a 110 mlndlr contract covering construction of a paper machine for St.Mary's Paper Inc of Ontario, Canada.    The company said project startup is scheduled for April1987 with completion expected in December 1988. Reuter
IRAQI OIL MINISTER REPLACED - OFFICIAL Iraq's Oil Minister Qassem Ahmed Taqihas been moved to the Heavy Industries ministry, the officialIraqi news agcny INA said tonight.    It quoted a Presidential decree appointing Oil Ministryundersecretary Isam Abdul-Rahim Al-Chalaby as the new OilMinister.    The Ministers of Industry and Communication and Transporthad both been relieved of their posts, the news agency said.    No immediate explanation was given for the changes.    Al-Chalaby is the head of the Iraqi National Oil Company.    INA said the decree, signed by President Saddam Hussein,relieved the Minister of Heavy Industries, Subhi Yassin Khadeirof his post and appointed him a Presidential adviser.    His ministry was formerly known as the Industry and MineralResources Ministry. The Minister of Communications andTransport, Abdel-Jabbar Abdel-Rahim al-Asadi was also relievedof his post and replaced by a member of the ruling Baath partyregional command, Mohammed Hamza al-Zubeidi. Al-Zubedei is alsoa Presidential adviser. All three ministers involved in thereshuffle had spent more than four years in their posts. Reuter
U.S. PREPARED TO ESCORT KUWAITI TANKERS The United States has offered Navywarships to escort Kuwaiti oil tankers into and out of the Gulf where they could be threatened by new Iranian anti-shipmissiles, U.S. defense officials said today.    "We believe the Kuwaitis have also approached the SovietUnion about the possibility of using Soviet tankers" to shiptheir oil, one of the officials told Reuters. "But if there issuperpower protection, we would rather it come from us," theofficial said.    The officials, who asked not to be identified, said Kuwaithad asked about possible protection for a dozen vessels, mostof them oil tankers, which could be supplied by three U.S. Navyguided missile destroyers and two guided missile frigates nowin the southern part of the Gulf.    "We told them we would give them help and we are waiting tohear the Kuwaiti response to our offer," one official said.    In addition to a half dozen ships in the U.S. Navy's smallMideast Task Force near the Straits of Hormuz, the Pentagon hasmoved 18 warships -- including the Aircraft Carrier Kitty Hawk-- into the northern Indian Ocean in the past month.    White House and defense officials said today that massingof the fleet was routine and had nothing to do with theIran-Iraq war or Iran's recent stationing of Chinese-made anti-ship missiles near the mouth of the Gulf.    The land-based missiles have increased concern in Kuwaitand other Middle East countries that their oil shipments mightbe affected. Several hundred vessels have been confirmed hit inthe  Gulf by Iran and Iraq since early 1984. White Housespokesman Marlin Fitzwater told reporters today that it was inthe U.S. strategic interest to keep the free flow of oil in thegulf and through the Straits of Hormuz.    But he said U.S. ships in the region were on routinemaneuvers.    Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger on Sunday declined todiscuss specifics, but said the United States would do whateverwas necessary to keep the Gulf shipping open in the face of newIranian anti-ship missiles in the region.    "We are fully prepared to do what's necessary to keep theshipping going and keep the freedom of navigation available inthat very vital waterway of the world," he said on NBCtelevision's "Meet the Press."    The State Department said Friday Iran has been informedabout U.S. concern over the threat to oil shipments in theGulf. The communciation was sent through Switzerland, whichrepresents American interests in Iran.     Iran on Sunday denied as baseless reports that it intendedto threaten shipping in the gulf and warned the United Statesthat any interference in the region would meet a strongresponse from Tehran, Tehran Radio said.    An Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman, quoted in abroadcast monitored by the BBC in London, said reports thatIran intends to threaten shipping in the Gulf were baseless.    "In conjunction with this misleading propaganda, America hasalready paved the ground to achieve its expansionist andhegemonistic intentions, aiming to build up its militarypresence in the region," he was quoted as saying. Reuter
IRAQ REPORTS ATTACKS ON SUPERTANKER, OIL TARGETS Iraq said today its warplnes hadattacked a supertanker and four Iranian oil sites and vowed tokeep up such raids until the Gulf war ends.    The surprise escalation of attacks on oil installationsbroke more than a month-long lull in Iraqi air force action.    It also followed celebrations yesterday of what Baghdadhailed as Iran's failure to achieve victory during the Iranianyear which ended on Saturday.    A high command communique said warplanes hit the westernjetty at Iran's Kharg island oil terminal in the afternoon andstruck a supertanker nearby at the same time.    The Kharg terminal, attacked about 135 times since August1985, was last raided in January.    The communique did not identify the supertanker, but saidcolumns of smoke were seen billowing from it.    In London, Lloyds insurance said the 162,046-ton Iraniantanker Avaj was hit on Saturday, when Iraq reported an earlierGulf attack.    But there has been no independent confirmation of today'ssupertanker attack nor of other raids on shipping reported byBaghdad in the past 24 hours.    The last confirmed Iraqi attack took place on March eight,when the Iranian tanker Khark-5 was hit south of Kharg.    Iraqi warplanes also struck Iran's offshore oilfields atNowruz, Cyrus and Ardeshir in northern gulf, some 80 km (50miles) west of Kharg island, today's communique said.    The three oilfields have been raided several times in thepast three years. Oil sources said they were not cruciallyimportant to Iran's oil export trade.    A second high command communique today said Iraqi warplanesflew 94 sorties against Iranan targets and positions at the warfront.    It also reported a clash between Iraqi naval units andseveral Iranian boats carrying men to attack an Iraqi oilterminal at the northen tip of the Gulf.    Two Iranian boats wer destroyed and sunk with theiroccupants and the others fled, it said. Reuter
ENERGY ANALYST PROPOSES U.S. OIL TARIFF Energy analyst Edward Krapels saidthe United States should consider an oil tariff to keep U.S.dependence on imports below 50 pct.    "On the supply side, the argument in favor of a contingent,variable import tariff is most persuasive," Krapels, presidentof Energy Security Analysis, Inc said in a statement at a HouseEnergy and Power subcommittee hearing.    "An optimal tariff would be one implemented only if theinternational price of crude oil falls below, say, 15 dlrs abarrel. On the demand side, the obvious policy is an excise taxon transportation fuels," Krapels said.    But William Johnson of the Jofree Corp disagreed with theoil tariff proposal, saying Congress should remove pricecontrols on natural gas, repeal the windfall profits tax on oilcompanies, allow exports of Alaskan oil and provide taxincentives for U.S. oil production, or, at the least, preserveexisiting tax incentives for drilling. He also urging fillingthe Strategic Petroleum Reserve at a faster rate.    Richard Adkerson of Arthur Andersen and Co told thesubcommittee oil imports were expected to increase becausefunds for exploration and development of domestic oil sourcescannot now be economically justified due to low oil prices. Reuter
IRAQ REPORTS ATTACKS ON SUPERTANKER, OIL TARGETS Iraq said its warplanes had attacked asupertanker and four Iranian oil sites and vowed to keep upsuch raids until the Gulf war ends.    The surprise escalation of attacks on oil installationsbroke more than a month-long lull in Iraqi air force action.    It also followed celebrations yesterday of what Baghdadhailed as Iran's failure to achieve victory during the Iranianyear which ended on Saturday.    A high command communique said warplanes hit the westernjetty at Iran's Kharg island oil terminal in the afternoon andstruck a supertanker nearby at the same time.    The Kharg terminal, attacked about 135 times since August1985, was last raided in January.    The communique did not identify the supertanker, but saidcolumns of smoke were seen billowing from it.    In London, Lloyds insurance said the 162,046-ton Iraniantanker Avaj was hit on Saturday, when Iraq reported an earlierGulf attack.    But there has been no independent confirmation of today'ssupertanker attack nor of other raids on shipping reported byBaghdad in the past 24 hours.    The last confirmed Iraqi attack took place on March 8, whenthe Iranian tanker Khark-5 was hit south of Kharg.    Iraqi warplanes also struck Iran's offshore oilfields atNowruz, Cyrus and Ardeshir in northern gulf, some 80 km (50miles) west of Kharg island, today's communique said. Reuter
HUGHES' U.S. RIG COUNT RISES TO 784 U.S. drilling activity rose last weekwith the number of working rotary rigs up by 23 to 784, against1,063 working rigs one year ago, Hughes Tool Co. said.    The improvement was the first increase this year in theweekly rig count, which had dropped steadily since earlyJanuary when a total of 962 rotary rigs were working.    Among individual states, Texas and Oklahoma reported thebiggest gains in drilling last week with increases of 21 and11, respectively. California and Louisiana were each up bythree and Wyoming gained two additional working rigs.    Hughes Tool said it counted a total of 692 rigs drilling onland, 74 rigs active offshore and 18 drilling in inland waters.In Canada, the rig count was up by two to 183, against 324 oneyear ago. Reuter
AUSTRALIAN MINISTER SEES TARGETED OIL TAX STRATEGY Australia's crudeoil tax strategy is probably best tackled in terms of atargeted rather than broadly-based approach, Federal Resourcesand Energy Minister Gareth Evans told a meeting here.    He told the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association(APEA) annual conference there was a prospect of developing apackage that would recognise the government's economicpriorities while also meeting some of the industry's concerns.    Evans was referring to a nearly completed government reviewof oil taxation.    Evans said there were plenty of examples where targetedapproaches to oil industry taxation had produced good resultsin recent years.    These include the reduction in the top marginal crudeexcise rate on 'old' Bass Strait oil found before September1975 to 80 pct from 87 pct, and the waiver of excise on onshoreoil announced last September, he said.    The industry, through the APEA, has been calling for theelimination of secondary taxation on oil in order to boostincentives for prospecting against a background of weak pricesand Australia's relatively low exploration levels.    "While nobody wants to add further unnecessary complexity toan already complex taxation regime, I am inclined to favourthese kinds of tailored approaches ahead of sweeping changes,which leave (government) revenue much reduced and may stillleave a lot of uncertainty as to what individual companies aregoing to do in major areas," Evans said.    He said the government did not intend to change itsresource rent taxation (RRT) legislation, now beforeparliament, in response to industry calls to allow allexploration expenditure in a given area to be deductible.    As previously reported, RRT is a tax of 40 pct limited tohighly prospective offshore areas, based on profits after acertain rate of return has been achieved for individualprojects.    APEA has said it is not a true profit-based tax becauseexploration deductibility is limited to successful projects.    Evans said the decision not to change RRT was based morethan anything on the government's desire to ensure thecertainty and stability of the new regime, adding that majorinvestments have already been planned on the existing groundrules. REUTER
SHELL AUSTRALIA REPORTS 45.79 MLN DLR 1986 PROFIT Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD.AMS> unit<Shell Australia Ltd>, said its net profit fell to 45.79 mlndlrs in 1986 from 66.76 mln in 1985.    Revenue fell to 4.55 billion dlrs from 4.91 billion, in anextremely competitive and over-regulated environment, chairmanand chief executive Kevan Gosper said in a statement. A 26.25mln dlr annual dividend would be paid to the parent after avery disappointing year.    "A return of 2.2 pct on funds employed represents a verymeagre return ... In an economy suffering from inflation ofaround 10 pct," he said.    Gosper said the results reflected heavy reliance ondownstream oil and chemicals, poor coal and metal returns andthe financial burden of the North-West Shelf gas project.    Duties, royalties and taxes rose to 1.37 billion dlrsagainst 852.72 mln in 1985 and Gosper urged the government tomove quickly to lift costly and unnecessary regulation.    "It is just as important for Australia to maintain afinancially healthy, technically advanced refining andmarketing industry as it is to sustain oil exploration andproduction," he said.    "The Australian oil industry has the experience and thecapacity to serve the nation and its shareholders well if thegovernment would stop putting roadblocks in our way," he said.    Shell invested 500 mln dlrs over the past five years toupgrade its oil refining and marketing business, but furtherinvestment required an appropriate rate of return, he said.    Exploration and evaluation spending in 1986 fell to 18.77mln dlrs from 26.35 mln, while investment in property and plantrose to 374.25 mln from 353.94 mln a year earlier.    Gosper said oil companies would be under intense pressurein 1987 because of forecast slow economic growth. REUTER
AUSTRALIAN OIL INDUSTRY TO CONTINUE TAX CAMPAIGN The council of theAustralian Petroleum Exploration Association (APEA) said itwill press on with its campaign for major improvements toAustralia's petroleum taxation structure.    The council said in a statement the industry was bitterlydisappointed by the Australian government's position ontaxation, as presented in a speech by Resources and EnergyMinister Gareth Evans to the APEA conference.    As earlier reported, Evans said he was inclined to targetany tax changes rather than take a broad-based approach tosecondary taxation of petroleum.    APEA had expected the government to make positive responsesto detailed industry submissions seeking the removal ofexisting secondary tax disincentives to exploration anddevelopment, the council said.    It said it plans to reply in detail to issues raised byEvans, but its immediate concern was the decision to proceedwith the current resource rental tax (RRT) legislation.    Evans told the conference the government did not plan toaccept industry pleas for changes in the legislation to allowdeductibility of unsuccessful exploration expenditure.    "The government's unwillingness to allow the deduction ofunsuccessful exploration expenditure within the whole offshorearea in which RRT applies negates any claim that the tax isprofit based," the APEA council said.    The government missed a major opportunity to persuade oilexploration companies that it had realistic answers to theindustry's concerns, despite its recognition of the industry'sproblems, the council said.    The industry has called for the end of all discriminatorysecondary taxation of petroleum, citing them as majordisincentives at a time of low oil prices. REUTER
SANTOS SAYS PROFITS HIT BY OIL PRICE FALL Leading Australian onshore oil and gasproducer, Santos Ltd <STOS.S>, said its 1986 results were hitby sharp reductions in prices for crude oil, condensate andliquefied petroleum gas (LPG).    The Cooper Basin producer earlier reported a fall in netprofit to 88.67 mln dlrs from 144.04 mln in 1985.    Santos chairman Sir Brian Massy-Greene said in a statementthat increased production, particularly of oil and LPG, alongwith reduced operating costs and reduced or deferred oilexploration and development outlays, were helping Santos dealwith an adverse business climate.    Santos said it remained financially strong with aninjection of 84 mln dlrs from the second instalment of a 1985rights issue, and had cash reserves of 381.3 mln dlrs at theend of 1986 against 401.9 mln a year earlier.    It said it had also made significant progress in repayingdebts and at year end the ratio of debt to shareholders' fundshad fallen to 1.01 from 1.54.    Santos yesterday announced a 4.00 dlr a share takeover bidfor the 96.93 pct it did not already hold in oil and gascompany <TMOC Resources Ltd> -- valuing the target at 248.5 mlndlrs.    Santos said 75 pct of its loans were U.S. Dollardenominated and significant currency purchases were made duringthe year to maintain that natural hedge. At year end it held145 mln U.S. Dlrs, enough to meet all 1987 repayments.    Santos said it had a successful gas exploration program,finding 172 billion cubic feet in South Australia, but oilexploration was less successful with 1.62 mln barrels added toreserves -- less than depletion during the year.    Cooper Basin producers are committed to a two-year schemeto double gas exploration while Santos said its 1987 budget foroil exploration had been boosted 20 pct.    Santos said the outlook for 1987 depended on prices andproduction volumes but with extra oil exploration andencouraging gas finds there were grounds for optimism.    But it called on the goverment to continue fosteringdomestic producers through the Import Parity Price scheme.    "It makes no sense to abandon this policy now whenexploration is at its lowest level for many years and whenAustralia's oil self-sufficency is expected to decline rapidly,"Massy-Green said. REUTER
KUWAIT SAYS OPEC 2.4 MLN BPD BELOW CEILING Kuwaiti oil minister Sheikh Alial-Khalifa al-Sabah said OPEC was producing well below its oiloutput ceiling and this would help prices move higher,according to a Kuwaiti newspaper interview.    The al-Rai al-Aam newspaper quoted him as saying OPEC waspumping 2.4 mln barrels per day (bpd) less than its 15.8 mlnbpd ceiling, while consumers were drawing down their petroleumstocks at a rate of 4.5 mln bpd.    As long as OPEC maintains its output curbs, demand for itsoil will rise in April and May, Sheikh Ali said, adding thatKuwait was strongly committed to its OPEC quota. REUTER
U.S. OFFERS TO ESCORT KUWAITI TANKERS IN GULF The U.S. Has offered warships toescort Kuwaiti tankers in the Gulf past Iranian anti-shipmissile batteries, Defence Department officials said.    The officials told Reuters yesterday the offer was madelast week by Navy Admiral William Crowe, chairman of thePentagon Joint Chiefs of Staff, during a Middle East visit.    Reagan administration officials said later that Washingtondid not seek military confrontation with Tehran, but would notlet Iran use Chinese-made "Silkworm" anti-ship missiles, capableof covering the narrow entrance to the Gulf, to choke oilshipments to the West.    Defence officials said Kuwait had asked if protection forup to a dozen vessels, most of them tankers, could be providedby three U.S. Navy destroyers and two frigates now in thesouthern Gulf and the Gulf of Oman.    In addition to a half dozen ships in the U.S. Navy's smallMideast Task Force near the Straits of Hormuz, the Pentagon hasmoved 18 warships, including the aircraft carrier Kitty Hawk,into the northern Arabian Sea in the past month.    White House and defence officials said that massing thefleet was routine and had nothing to do with the Iran-Iraq waror Iran's stationing of missiles near the mouth of the Gulf.    The State Department said on Friday that Iran has been toldabout U.S. Concern over the threat to oil shipments in theGulf. The communication was sent through Switzerland, whichrepresents U.S. Interests in Iran.    Iran denied as baseless reports that it intended tothreaten shipping in the Gulf and said any U.S. Interference inthe region would meet a strong response, Tehran Radio said onSunday.    Several hundred vessels have been confirmed hit in the Gulfby Iran and Iraq since early 1984 in the so-called tanker war,an offshoot of their 6-1/2-year-old ground conflict. REUTER
IRAN WARNS U.S. NOT TO INTERVENE IN THE GULF The speaker of the Iranian Parliament,Hojatoleslam Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, warned the U.S. Not tointervene in the Gulf, a day after Washington said its warshipswere available to escort Kuwaiti tankers through the waterway.    "If U.S. Intervention occurs, the entire world will becomeinsecure for the Americans and the events of Lebanon could berepeated for the Americans everywhere," he said.    U.S. Defence officials disclosed in Washington yesterdaythat the U.S. Navy, which has about 24 warships in or near theGulf, was prepared to escort Kuwaiti tankers, regular targetsfor Iranian attacks in an offshoot of its war with Iraq.    Rafsanjani, in an interview reported by the Iranian newsagency IRNA, also commented on earlier U.S. Disclosures thatIran had erected sites for new Chinese-made Silkwormanti-shipping missiles at the Strait of Hormuz.    The agency, received in London, quoted him as saying thatIran did not need missiles to close the strait, 24 miles wideat its narrowest, because "we can close it with artillery only."    He added "We have the longest coasts and the highestinterest here and the small southern (Gulf) states have alesser interest compared with us and therefore it is naturalfor us to protect the security of the Strait of Hormuz morethan others." REUTER
SHELL TO DECLARE NORWAY'S DRAUGEN FIELD COMMERCIAL <A/S Norske Shell>, RoyalDutch/Shell Group's <RD.AS> Norwegian subsidiary, said it hasnearly concluded a 10 billion crown development scheme forNorway's Draugen oil field and will declare the fieldcommercial in the near future.    Pending government approval of the scheme, the field couldcome on stream in 1992, making it Norway's northermost fielddevelopment and the first such project on the Haltenbankentract off central Norway.    Work on the project could begin as early as January 1988, aShell spokesman said.    Shell has not released projected output levels for thefield, where water depth is 240-270 meters.    The spokesman said the field's partners have agreed todevelop Draugen with a 300-meter, single-leg concretegravity-base platform.    The scheme also proposes using remote subsea productionwells to tap the field's reservoir, estimated to contain 375mln barrels of oil, and an offshore buoy-loading system totransport oil from the field by ship.    Partners on Draugen are Shell, the operator, with a 30 pctstake, British Petroleum Co Plc <BP.L> unit <BP PetroleumDevelopment (Norway) Ltd> (20 pct) and state-owned Den NorskeStats Oljeselskap A/S <STAT.OL> (Statoil) (50 pct). REUTER
U.S. ENERGY SECRETARY OPTIMISTIC ON INCENTIVES U.S. Department of Energy SecretaryJohn Herrington said he was "optimistic" about the chances ofproviding a more generous depletion allowance for oil and gasproducers, but added that the plan faces strong opposition fromsome members of the Reagan administration.    Herrington, speaking to Houston oil executives at abreakfast meeting, said administration debate over his plan fora 27.5 pct annual depletion allowance was "heavy and strong"largely because of some fears that the U.S. oil industry couldeventually become as dependent on federal subsidies as theagriculture industry.    Herrington's proposed tax incentives for the oil industrywere issued last week after the Department of Energy released acomprehensive report finding U.S. national security could bejeopardized by rising oil imports.    In response to a question from Mitchell Energy andDevelopment Corp <MND> chairman, George Mitchell, Herringtonsaid the report did not definitively rule out an oil importtarrif. "We intend to keep that debate open," Herrington said.    However, following his speech, Herrington told Reuters thatthe new report shows an oil import fee "is not economical."    Herrington said, for example, a 10 dlr per barrel tariff onoil imports would cause the nation's gross national product todrop by as much as 32 billion dlrs.    Herrington also said he believed President Reagan, whorequested the comprehensive national security study, wascommitted to some action to help the ailing U.S. oil industry.    "I'm quite confident he understands the problems and isprepared to do something about it," Herrington said. Reuter
U.S. SUPREME COURT ALLOWS OFFSHORE ALASKAN OIL AND GAS EXP Great Lakes Chemical Corpsaid it agreed to make an ingredient to be used by McNeilSpecialty Products Co, a subsidiary of Johnson and Johnson, inthe manufacture of sucralose, a high intensity sweetener.    Sucralose is currently under review by the Food and DrugAdministration.    Great Lakes Chemical and McNeil Specialty will build thefacilities needed for production, it said. Reuter
U.S. COURT ALLOWS OFFSHORE ALASKAN EXPLORATION A unanimous Supreme Court ruled thatoil and gas exploration can proceed on two tracts off theAlaska coast which were leased by the federal government toeight major oil companies.    The ruling was an important victory for the oil companiesand the Reagan administration's controversial off-shore leasingprogram and a setback for two small Alaskan villages thatchallenged the leases by claiming damage to the environment.    The administration said that the court-ordered halt indrilling had created uncertainty over the 4.2 billion dlrs paidfor 621 leases off the shores of Alaska since December 1980.    A federal appeals court ordered the oil companies to haltall exploration and remove all drilling rigs from two tracts inthe Bering Sea off Alaska because of possible harm to thesubsistence needs and culture of native Eskimos.    But the Supreme Court said the appeals court was wrong inissuing an injunction halting exploration.    "Here, injury to subsistence resources from exploration wasnot at all probable," Justice Byron White wrote for the court."And on the other side of the balance of harms was the factthat the oil companies had committed approximately 70 mln dlrsto exploration to be conducted during the summer of 1985 whichthey would have lost without chance of recovery had explorationbeen enjoined," he said.    The oil companies, Amoco Corp <AN>, ARCO, Exxon Corp <XON>,Mobil Corp <MOB>, Sohio, Shell, Texaco Inc <TX> and Union Oil,had said that voiding previously granted leases would result instaggering financial losses.    The first lease sale in 1983 involved 2.4 mln acres andgenerated 318 mln dlrs while the second lease sale in 1984covered 37 mln acres and produced 516 mln dlrs.    Administration officials, saying the lease sales werepreceded by an intense environmental impact study, denied thatthe oil and gas exploration would hurt subsistence resources.    The Alaskan villages of Gambell and Stebbins, along with anorganization of Eskimo natives on the Yukon Delta, argued thatthe drilling would hurt native hunting and fishing. Reuter
LOWER TAX OFFSETS LOWER SHELL U.K. UPSTREAM PROFIT <Shell U.K. Ltd's> pre-tax profit onexploration and production operations fell to 869 mln stg in1986 from 2.12 billion in 1985 due to the fall in oil priceslast year, Shell U.K. Finance director Nigel Haslam said.    But he told a press conference that due to the highmarginal tax rate on North Sea operations, the main impact ofthe drop in profit was absorbed by a fall in taxation to 330mln stg from 1.45 billion in 1985.    The bulk of tax last year was Corporation Tax, withPetroleum Revenue Tax (PRT) representing only 16 mln stg, hesaid.    As a result, post-tax profit from the exploration andproduction sector fell by only 126 mln stg to 539 mln.    Earlier, Shell U.K., a subsidiary of Royal Dutch/ShellGroup <RD.AS>, reported an overall net profit of 757 mln stg,up from 667 mln in 1985, on sales of 6.57 billion stg against8.81 mln.    Shell U.K. Chairman Bob Reid said the company's crude oiloutput from the North Sea was at a record 373,000 bpd in 1986,which would almost certainly prove to be a peak for thecompany. Shell expects a fall in output of around 10 pct in thecurrent year to around 340,000 bpd, due mainly to the declinein output from the major Brent field, he said.    Gas output of 5.9 billion cubic metres and natural gasliquids output of around one mln tonnes in 1986 are expected tobe maintained in 1987, he said.    A final decision on development of the Kittiwake and OspreyNorth Sea oil fields will be made in the next 12 to 18 months,Reid said. The Kittiwake field, originally part of the 2.5billion stg Gannet project abandoned last year when the oilprice fell, is now estimated to cost around 350 mln stg.    Economies on development costs for the Tern and Eider NorthSea fields, which were approved last year, have brought thecost down to 30 to 35 pct below the original budget.    Day to day operating costs of the exploration andproduction sector had been cut 10 pct last year, and the targetis to keep costs per barrel constant.    The company drilled 17 wells offshore, with 10 leading tothe discovery of hydrocarbons, although it is too early togauge the commercial viability of these discoveries, Reid said.    Restructuring of the downstream oil sector contributed to aprofit rise to 187 mln stg in 1986 from 91 mln stg in 1985.    Jaap Klootwijk, managing director of downstream unit <ShellU.K. Oil>, said refining margins in the first quarter of 1987were a "bit better than the very bad fourth quarter 1986."    In November and December in particular, refining operationshad shown negative margins following the fall in crude and oilproduct prices, he said. He expected margins to continuegenerally positive over the summer, although they could dip tobecome negative from time to time, depending on pricemovements.    A new catalytic cracker at Shell's Stanlow refinery willnow come on stream by the end of first quarter 1988, about fivemonths behind schedule, following a crane accident whichseverely damaged the plant last year, he said.    Profits from the chemicals sector rose to 33 mln stg from11 mln after the rationalisation of the Carrington chemicalsite.    Haslam said the Budget announcement on PRT relief, by whichcompanies will be allowed to offset up to 10 pct of qualifyingdevelopment expenditure on certain future oil fields againstPRT, was "helpful," but rather less than had been hoped for.    Reid said his estimate of crude oil prices this year was inthe range of 15 to 18 dlrs. If prices went much above that, hewould expect some over-production above OPEC"s official 15.8 mlnbpd output ceiling which would tend to bring prices back down.    He said it looked as if the December OPEC pact to restrainoutput was holding, bringing supply and demand into balance,but the test will come in summer when demand for OPEC oil willfall. Reuter
OIL TAX BREAK RIDICULED BY U.S. HOUSE TAXWRITER A House taxwriter said EnergySecretary James Herrington's "outrageous" plan to restore an oldtax break for oil companies was both bad tax and energy policy.    Rep. Pete Stark, a California Democrat and senior HouseWays and Means Committee member, said Herrington's plan for a27.5 pct depletion allowance--which in effect is a special 27.5pct tax deduction --would cost seven billion dlrs a year.    "He must have missed the last two years of federal taxreform by sleeping as soundly as Rip Van Winkle," Stark said.    He said in a statement the oil industry already pays aneffective lower rate of U.S. tax on investment, 15 pct versusaggregate corporate tax on all investment of 34 pct, accordingto a recent Congressional Research Service study. Reuter
MOSCOW SUPPORTS FREE GULF NAVIGATION, ENVOY SAYS The Soviet Union supports the freedomof navigation in the Gulf and does not support any act whichwould cause the deterioration of the situation in the region,its ambassador to Kuwait, Ernest Zverev, told the Kuwaiti newsagency KUNA.    "We support the freedom of navigation in the Arabian Gulfand the Strait of Hormuz," the agency quoted Zverev as saying.    KUNA also said the envoy had discussed the deployment ofIranian missiles near the Strait of Hormuz with Kuwaiti ForeignUndersecretary Suliman Majed al-Shaheen.    A British naval source in the Gulf said today Iran hadtest-fired its new Silkworm missiles and set up launching sitesin the area.    The tests had been successful and the missiles could beused against shipping in the strait, the source added.    But Iranian Parliamentary Speaker Hojatoleslam AkbarHashemi Rafsanjani said Iran did not need missiles to close thestrait because "we can close it with artillery only."    The U.S. Has said it will not allow Iran to use missiles tochoke off oil shipments and offered its warships to escortKuwaiti tankers past the missile batteries in the strait. REUTER
DRAWDOWN SEEN IN U.S. DISTILLATE STOCKS Tonight's American Petroleum Instituteoil inventory report is expected to show another drawdown indistillate stocks of between two and 7.5 mln barrels for theweek ending March 20, oil analysts and traders said.    They said they expect gasoline inventories to be depletedby about one to four mln barrels.    Analysts were divided on the crude stocks. Some saw stocksunchanged to as much as three mln barrels higher. Others saidstocks could be down one to five mln barrels. Crude throughputvolumes are expected to be unchanged to slightly higher orlower than the week ended March 13, traders said.    The API recorded a 7.4 mln barrel stockdraw for U.S.distillates in the week ended March 13. Analysts see another draw reflecting historic seasonal trends.    For the week ended March 13, API reported gasoline stocksdown 2.9 mln barrels.    Those expecting a draw of as much as four mln barrels saidthey are looking for fairly high consumption rates as thespring and summer driving season gets underway this year,because retail prices are still low compared to recent years.    U.S. crude oil stocks were reported down by 4.4 mln barrelsfor the week ended March 13. Analysts are divided over theoutcome for last week because there is uncertainty aboutwhether throughput levels increased or decreased last week.    Some see crude stock levels unchanged to three mln barrelshigher, while others think inventories could be as much as fivemln barrels below the previous week.    The lower estimates are supported by the belief that cruderuns increased and imports fell.    The API reported crude runs 154,000 b/d higher for the weekended March 13. Analysts are calling it unchanged to slightlyup or down for the week ended March 20.    Expectations for product stockdraws are already beingreflected in firmer prices, traders said. But if draws are atthe higher end of the estimated range, they added, the effectwill be bullish. Any stockbuild would be a negative factor,they said.    Crude runs normally increase in March, and any decrease inruns would be friendly to the market, said Peter Beutel ofElders Energy Futures Inc. Reuter
GOODYEAR <GT> UNIT TO START UP PIPELINE Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co said the AllAmerican Pipeline of its Celeron Corp subsidiary will startline fill activities on March 30 as it begins operating.    The company said about five mln barrels of oil will berequired to pack the completed segment of the line, which runs1,225 miles from near Santa Barbara, Calif., to existingpipeline connections in West Texas.  Construction has alsostaqrted this week on a 43-mile, 16-inch diameter gatheringline to deliver 75,000 to 100,000 barrels a day of oil from theSan Joaquin Valley in California.  The 30-inch main undergroundline can transport over 300,000 barrels daily. Reuter
CALUMET INDUSTRIES <CALI> SEES 2ND QTR LOSS Calumet Industries Inc said it expectsto report a loss from operations for its second quarter endingMarch 31, despite a strong unit sales increase.    In the same year-ago period the company reported net incomeof 366,953 dlrs, or 18 cts a share.    Chairman S. Mark Salvino said the expected loss isprimarily due to depressed product prices not recovering theincreasing cost of crude oil.    Salvino also said steadier crude prices and the reducedrate of refinery production should increase product prices andlead to a return to more normal profit margins.    He reported that the 23 mln dlr HydroCal II system underconstruction at the company's refinery in Princeton, La., is onschedule and production will begin early in fiscal 1988. Reuter
PDVSA INCOME ON OIL SALES FELL 45 PCT IN 1986 The state oil company Petroeleos deVenezuela ended 1986 with a decrease of 45 pct in income fromoil sales even though it surpassed its own export goal byalmost 100,000 barrels a day, Minister of Energy and MinesArturo Hernandez Grisanti said.    Speaking to a news conference following the PDVSA annualassembly, Hernandez said PDVSA's income from oil sales haddropped to 7.2 billion dlrs in 1986, down 45 pct from lastyear's 13.3 billion.    Fiscal revenue from oil sales, which was estimated at 66billion bolivares for 1986, totalled 43.5 billion, a drop of 34pct which Hernandez said "had a very serious impact onVenezuela."    PDVSA's export volume averaged 1.508 mln barrels a day, ofwhich 658,000 bpd were crude oil and 850,000 bpd refinedproducts.    The figure surpassed PDVSA's stated goal of 1.410 mln bpdand the 1985 export volume of 1.371 mln bpd. But it was notenough to cover the losses from a drop in the average pricefrom 25.88 dlrs per barrel in 1985 to 13.90 dlrs last year.    The 13.90 per barrel price for 1986 was 1.01 dlrs higherthan the figure originally announced by the Central Bank.Hernandez said the increase had come from a new accountingsystem which included the results of PDVSA's overseas refiningand marketing operations.    Consumption in Venezuela's internal market increased from323,000 bpd in 1985 to 342,000 bpd last year. However,Hernandez stressed that the government had managed to keepgasoline sales almost constant at 164,000 bpd.    Exploration by PDVSA led to an increase of 675 mln barrelsin reserves of light and medium crudes, shifting the balance ofVenezuela's reserves away from heavy crude oil. The country'sproduction capacity at year-end 1986 was 2.562 mln bpd, ofwhich 1.420 mln are light and medium crudes, Hernandez said.     Venezuela's total proven reserves as of December 31, 1986were 55.521 billion barrels, the fourth largest amount in theworld, Hernandez said. Reuter
IMPERIAL OIL <IMO.A> TO FOCUS ON HIGHER PROFIT Imperial Oil Ltd, 70 pct owned by ExxonCorp <XON>, will focus on maintaining its financial strengthand improving near-term earnings performance through operatingexpense reductions and selective capital spending, the companysaid in the annual report.    Imperial Oil said it expects to spend about 750 mln dlrs oncapital and exploration expenditures in 1987, compared to 648mln dlrs in 1986 and 1.16 billion dlrs in 1985.    Imperial previously reported 1986 operating net profit fellto 440 mln dlrs or 2.69 dlrs share from 694 mln dlrs or 4.27dlrs share in the prior year.    Imperial Oil said the attention to earnings results fromthe desire to pursue longer term growth opportunities shouldthe investment climate improve and the belief that low orvolatile crude oil prices could continue during the nextseveral years.    The company also said actions initiated during 1986 torestructure and improve efficiency should continue to showbenefits in 1987.    During 1986, the company cut operating, administrative andmarketing expenses by 91 mln dlrs and reduced the number ofworkers by 16 pct to 12,500.    Imperial chairman Arden Haynes said in the annual reportthat it is too early to determine whether the recent upwardmovement in international oil prices will be sustained.    "It is still a time for prudence and caution, and thecompany's actions will continue to be based on the fundamentalsof market supply and demand," he said.    Haynes said prospects for the company's petroleum productsdivision are more promising than before, but are stilluncertain. Imperial's 1986 petroleum earnings rose to 174 mlndlrs from 102 mln dlrs in 1985.    Haynes said more satisfactory product margins on itspetroleum products could result if demand recovers as it has inthe United States.    The company's chemicals business outlook is mixed, Haynessaid. Prospects for growth in petrochemical sales is good aslong as economic growth continues, but future large grainsurpluses could dampen fertilizer demand and maintain pressureon prices.    Imperial's chemical business earned 17 mln dlrs in 1986,compared to three mln dlrs in 1985. Reuter
CALTEX TO RAISE BAHRAIN OIL PRODUCT PRICES Caltex Petroleum Corp said it willraiseposted prices for naphtha and several grades of residual fuelin Bahrain, effective March 25.     Caltex, a joint venture of Chevron Corp <CHV> and TexacoINC <TX>, said its naphtha posting is up four cts a gallon to43 cts. It said it is raising its marine diesel oil posting by30 cts a barrel to 20.24 dlrs a barrel.    Light, medium, and heavy fuel oil postings are up 1.50 dlrsa barrel, the company said. This will bring the light fuel oilprice to 16.90 dlrs, medium to 15.50 dlrs, and heavy to 14.60dlrs, the company said. Reuter
API SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS OFF 4.07 MLN BBLS, GASOLINE OFF 2.69 MLN, CRUDE UP  Vermont Financial ServicesCorp said its board approved a regular 20 cts per share cashdividend payable April 25 to shareholders of record March 26. Reuter
VENEZUELA TO ANNOUCE PARTNER FOR COAL VENTURE Petroleos de Venezuela S.A willannounce within two weeks the name of a foreign consortium ithas chosen to help exploit the coal deposits at Guasare inwestern Zulia state, PDVSA president Juan Chacin Guzman said.    Chacin told reporters the foreign partner will providecapital as well as technical and marketing expertise to theCarbozulia project, which the state oil company will manage.    PDVSA officials said that among those who bid for thepartnership is a consortium between Agip Carbone, a subsidiaryof Italy's Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi (ENI), and AtlanticRichfield <ARC> of the United States.    Minister of Energy and Mines Arturo Hernandez Grisanti saiddiscussions are currently taking place to finalize the terms ofthe contract with the foreign partner.    PDVSA vice-president Pablo Reimpell said last week thefirst shipment of coal from the Carbozulia project should bemade during the final quarter of 1987, and would measurebetween 100-150,000 metric tons.    Plans call for production to eventually reach 500,000 mtannually. Reimpell said the original investment in the projectwill be approximately 8 billion bolivars. Reuter
MADAGASCAR EXTENDS AMOCO OIL EXPLORATION AGREEMENT Madagascar extended its oilexploration agreement with the U.S. Firm Amoco Corp <AN> for 17months to allow for further studies of the Morondava basin onthe southwest coast, a government statement said.    It said the existing five-year agreement, due to expirethis July 24, was extended until the end of 1988 to allow foradditional geological and geophysical studies.    Amoco has so far laid 7,100 km of seismic lines and sunkfive exploration wells in the Morondava basin. It may drill afurther three wells before the end of the extended explorationperiod, the statement said.    Madagascar has signed oil exploration agreements with fourforeign oil companies since 1981. But despite promisingindications of large reserves, no commercial production planshave yet been announced.    The foreign firms - Amoco, Occidental Petroleum Corp <OXY>,Mobil Corp <MOB> and a unit of <Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi> -are working in partnership with the National Military Officefor Strategic Industries (OMNIS).    Roland Ratsimandresy, the director general of OMNIS, saidat a ceremenony to sign the extension of the Amoco agreementthat his department would intensify oil exploration with itsexisting partners and would soon offer a new round ofexploration licences. REUTER
ABU DHABI TO REOPEN GULF OILFIELD HIT IN 1986 RAID Abu Dhabi's offshore Abu al-Bukhooshoilfield in the Gulf, shut since an aerial attack lastNovember, will reopen when new anti-aircraft defences areready, and this could be in the next two months, oil industrysources said.    They said the Abu Dhabi government and Compagnie Francaisedes Petroles (Total) <TPN.PA>, whose Total Abu al-Bukhooshsubsidiary owns 51 pct of the field, have agreed on thereopening, but that a date has not been definitely fixed.    Unidentified planes hit the field, 100 miles off Abu Dhabi,last November 25.    The raid killed eight workers and destroyed the main livingquarters and a bridge linking a wellhead to the main productionplatform.    Western diplomats in the region say Iran was responsiblebut Tehran has blamed its Gulf War enemy Iraq.    Abu al-Bukhoosh was producing 57,000 barrels per day (bpd)at the time of the attack, but the sources said it would resumeat a maximum of half that level because of reduced staff andthe fact only four of five wellheads were now operable.    The sources said only 80 personnel can be housed inremaining accomodations, the sources said.    Facilities being installed to protect the field includeaircraft detection equipment, anti-aircraft missiles, housingfor military personnel and helicopter landing pads, the sourcessaid.    Abu Dhabi is the largest oil producer in the United ArabEmirates, accounting for about 800,000 bpd of its total 1.15mln bpd production, the sources said.    They also said Iran was working to reopen its Sassan field,part of the same reservoir as Abu al-Bukhoosh and located onlya few miles away. Sassan was heavily damaged by an Iraqi airraid only 10 days before Abu al-Bukhoosh was attacked. REUTER
OIL ANALYST SEES PAPUA NEW GUINEA AS GOOD PROSPECT Papua New Guinea(PNG) provides the most exciting new prospect in theAsia-Pacific region for oil production, energy analyst FereidunFesharaki said here.    The recent successful find at Iagifu is likely to put PNGon the list of major oil exporters by the early 1990s, he toldthe Australian Petroleum Exploration Association annualconference.    Fesharaki, leader of the Energy Program at the East-WestCenter in Honolulu, Hawaii, was speaking on the Asia-Pacificpetroleum outlook.    With domestic demand of around 12,000 barrels per day (bpd)and prospects of production of over 100,000 bpd by late 1991,PNG would become an Ecuador-level crude exporter, Fesharakisaid.    The Iagifu wells in the Papuan Basin have recorded the bestoil flows in more than 60 years of exploration in PNG.    The PNG government's Geological Survey in a paperdistributed at the conference estimates Iagifu reserves atabout 500 mln barrels.    PNG enjoys the most liberal tax regime in the region withno secondary taxes, Fesharaki said.    "We expect a much larger oil search in Papua New Guinea, anddiscovery of much larger volumes of oil, similar in quality to(light) Bass Strait crude," Fesharaki said.    There are also large pockets of high quality condensates tobe produced, notably in the Juha field near Iagifu which iscapable of producing 30,000 to 40,000 bpd, he said.    But prices should be somewhat higher than the presentlevels to justify development of the Juha field, he said.    The PNG Geological Survey paper noted there are five largeprospective but little-explored sedimentary basins in PNG. REUTER
NORWAY OFFERS 11TH LICENCE ROUND OFFSHORE BLOCKS Norway has offered 10 new offshore blocksto foreign and domestic applicants in the first phase of thecountry's eleventh concession round, government officials said.    Company shares in each of the licences proposed by the Oiland Energy Ministry are not final. The ministry has given thecompanies 10 days to accept or decline the proposed shares.    French companies Ste Nationale Elf Aquitaine <ELFP.PA> andTotal Cie Francaise des Petroles <TPN.PA>, which were expectedto receive operatorships following France's agreement lastautumn to purchase gas from Norway's Troll field, were notoffered operatorships in this round, industry sources said.    Three eleventh round blocks were awarded in theHaltenbanken exploration tract off central Norway, includingthe Smoerbukk West field where Den Norske Stats Oljeselskap A/S<STAT.OL> (Statoil) was appointed operator.    Statoil will share the licence with subsidiaries of U.S.Oil companies Tenneco Inc <TGT.N> and Texas Eastern Corp<TET.N> and the Italian oil company <Agip SpA>'s Norwegiansubsidiary.    E.I. Du Pont de Nemours <DD.N> subsidiary Conoco Norway Incwas named operator on Haltenbanken block 6406/8 and will sharethe licence with Statoil.    Norsk Hydro A/S <NHY.OL> will operate nearby block 6407/10with partners Statoil, Norsk Agip A/S, Royal Dutch/ShellGroup's <RD.AS> A/S Norske Shell and <Deminex> unit Deminex(Norge) A/S.    Statoil has been offered the operatorship on a new block inthe relatively unexplored Moere South exploration area south ofHaltenbanken, with A/S Norske Shell, Texas Eastern and<Petroleo Brasileiro SA> (Petrobras) also offered stakes in theblock.    Norwegian companies landed operatorships on all six blocksopened in the Barents Sea area off northern Norway. The blockswere awarded in three licenses, each covering two blocks.    Statoil will head exploration on blocks 7224/7 and 7224/8,sharing the licence with Exxon Corp's <XON.N> Norwegiansubsidiary Esso Norge A/S, The British Petroleum Co PLC's<BP.L> BP Petroleum Development (Norway) Ltd, Shell, NorskHydro and Saga Petroleum A/S <SAGP.OL>.    Blocks 7219/9 and 7220/7 were awarded to Norsk Hydro, theoperator, Statoil, Mobil Corp's <MOB.N> Mobil ExplorationNorway, Petrofina SA's <PETB.BR> Norske Fina A/S and BP.    The third Barents Sea licence, covering blocks 7124/3 and7125/1, went to Saga Petroleum A/S, the operator, Statoil,Atlantic Richfield Co's <ARC.N> Arco Norge A/S, Total MarineNorge A/S and Amerada Hess Corp <AHC.N>.    The oil ministry withheld awards on four strategic blocksincluded in the eleventh round's second phase.    The ministry is accepting applications for phase two blocksuntil early April and the awards will likely be announced thissummer, officials said. REUTER
THATCHER DEFENDS UK OIL POLICY IN SAUDI INTERVIEW British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcherdenied in an interview published in Saudi Arabia today that hergovernment's oil policy contributed to weakness in world oilprices.    She said the government was determined not to intervene toinfluence production decisions by oil companies operating inthe North Sea.    "We believe these must be a matter for the commercialjudgment of the oil companies," she told the Arabic languagedaily al-Sharq al-Awsat in an interview coinciding with a visitto London by King Fahd of Saudi Arabia.    Thatcher said this policy had not contributed to the fallin oil prices as North Sea production was now about the same asin 1984 when prices were close to 30 dlrs a barrel.    British production was on a plateau and was unlikely toincrease in the future, she said.    "We naturally share the concern of Saudi Arabia and otherOPEC members about the harmful effects of oil market volatilityfor both producer and consumer countries," Thatcher said.    "On our part, we are careful to avoid any actions whichmight add to such volatility." REUTER
CANADA SETS OIL INDUSTRY AID PACKAGE Canada's federal governmentwill provide a 350 mln dlr oil industry aid package thatincludes cash incentives designed to cover one-third of acompany's oil and gas exploration and development costs, EnergyMinister Marcel Masse announced.    The aid program will inject about 350 mln dlrs a year intothe oil and gas industry and could lead to more than onebillion dlrs in new investment, Masse told a news conference.    The program will affect drilling done anywhere in Canada onor after April 1, 1987.    Masse told reporters that the government's oil industry aidpackage is aimed at small and medium sized companies.    The aid package, called the Canadian Exploration andDevelopment Incentive Program, will restrict the total paymentsthat any individual company can claim to 10 mln dlrs a year.    Masse said the program will probably generate newemployment equivalent to 20,000 people working for a year.    He said oil industry aid is needed because exploration anddevelopment spending dropped by at least 50 pct since world oilprices fell during the first half of 1986.    Energy Minister Masse said the federal government decidedto provide cash incentives so a large number of non-tax payingcompanies, mainly small Canadian firms, will receive the fullvalue of the incentive. Such companies would not immediatelybenefit from tax benefits, he said.    The federal government also wanted to deliver an aidprogram outside the tax system. Finance Minister Michael Wilsonis now reviewing Canada's tax system and plans to announce taxreform proposals later this spring.    An important feature of the aid program is a decision tolet companies issue flow-through shares, allowing investors tobenefit from the subsidy rather than restricting benefits toonly participating companies, he said.    Allowing flow-through shares under the program will make iteasier for companies to attract investors in exploration anddevelopment, Masse said.    He told reporters his department is still consideringwhether to allow partnerships and other entities to qualify forthe subsidy. Reuter
ECUADOR NEGOTIATES WITH NIGERIA FOR LENDING OIL Earthquake-stricken Ecuador isnegotiating with Nigeria to have the African country lend it10,000 barrels per day (bpd) of crude for export, Deputy EnergyMinister Fernando Santos Alvite told Reuters.    He said Ecuador was negotiating a shipments schedule andthe terms of repaying the loan. Ecuador has suspended crudeexports for about five months until it repairs a pipelineruputured by a March five tremor.    Santos Alvite added Ecuador is finalizing details for aprogram under which Venezuela would temporarily lend thecountry 50,000 bpd for export. Reuter
TEXACO <TX> RESERVES DOWN DESPITE LOWER OUTPUT Texaco Inc's oil and gas reservesdeclined in 1986 despite reduced production and upwardrevisions in the company's previous reserve estimates, itsannual report said.    The statement of the report's auditor was qualified -- aswas the previous one -- because of the unkonwn final impact ofthe judgement won by Pennzoil Co <PZL> against Texaco oncharges Texaco interfered with Pannzoil's contract to acquireGetty Oil Co.    The auditor's point out, as Texaco has in the past, thecompany's loss of any of several pending court decisions inthis case could cause it "to face prospects such as having toseek protection of its assets and business pursuant to thebankruptcy and reorganization provisions of Chapter 11" of thefederal bankruptcy code.    Commenting on a Texas Court of Appeals ruling which reducedPennzoil's judgement by two billion dlrs, to 9.1 billion dlrs,Texaco said it will file a motion for a rehearing by theappeals court no later than March 30.    Texaco said the proven crude oil reserves of the companyand its consolidated subsidiaries totaled 2.54 billion barrelsat the end of 1986, down from 2.69 billion a year earlier.    However, inclusion of Texaco's equity in the EasternHemisphere reserves of a nonsubsidiary company limited thedecline to 2.91 billion barrels from 3.00 billion at the end of1985.    Worldwide production by the consolidated subsidiariesdeclined to 341 mln barrels last year from 362 mln in 1985 andupward revisions in previous reserve estimates rose to 143 mlnbarrels from 117 mln, respectively.    Texaco said the largest drop in reserves came in the UnitedStates -- where the total dropped to 1.46 billion barrels from1.55 billion.    The company said U.S. liquids production averaged 660,000barrels per day last year, down from 714,000 in 1985, withabout 44 pct of the decline -- some 24,000 barrels per day --representing high-cost production shut-in or curtailed inresponse to the decline in crude oil prices during 1986.    Texaco said its natural gas reserves totaled 8.16 trillioncubic feet at year end, down from 8.87 trillion cubic feet atthe end of 1985. Reuter
EIA SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS OFF 3.2 MLN BBLS, GASOLINE UP 2.2 MLN, CRUDE UP The National Association of Realtorssaid sales of previously owned homes rose six pct duringFebruary from January levels to a seasonally adjusted annualrate of 3.69 mln units.    The realtors' group said the sales rise was apparent acrossthe country and reflected lower mortgage interest rates as wellas more housing demand.    Actual resales of homes during February totaled 241,000, up11.6 pct from the January total of 216,000, the associationsaid. Reuter
RECENT U.S. OIL DEMAND UP 0.1 PCT FROM YEAR AGO U.S. oil demand as measured byproducts supplied rose 0.1 pct in the four weeks ended March 20to 16.16 mln barrels per day from 16.15 mln in the same perioda year ago, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) said.    In its weekly petroleum status report, the EnergyDepartment agency said distillate demand was off 0.1 pct in theperiod to 3.258 mln bpd from 3.260 mln a year earlier.    Gasoline demand averaged 6.72 mln bpd, off 1.2 pct from6.80 mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.38 mlnbpd, off 2.1 pct from 1.41 mln, the EIA said.    Domestic crude oil production was estimated at 8.35 mlnbpd, down 7.8 pct from 9.06 mln a year ago, and gross dailycrude imports (excluding those for the SPR) averaged 3.44 mlnbpd, up 16.3 pct from 2.95 mln, the EIA said.    Refinery crude runs in the four weeks were 11.90 mln bpd,up 1.4 pct from 11.74 mln a year earlier, it said.    In the first 78 days of the year, refinery runs were up 1.8pct to an average 12.25 mln bpd from 12.04 mln in the year-agoperiod, the EIA said.    Year-to-date demand for all petroleum products averaged16.32 mln bpd, up 1.8 pct from 16.04 mln in 1986, it said.    So far this year, distillate demand rose 0.1 pct to 3.31mln bpd from 3.30 mln in 1986, gasoline demand was 6.60 mlnbpd, up 0.1 pct from 6.59 mln, and residual fuel demand fell0.4 pct to 1.42 mln bpd from 1.43 mln, the EIA said.    Year-to-date domestic crude output was estimated at 8.41mln bpd, off 7.7 pct from 9.11 mln a year ago, while grosscrude imports averaged 3.96 mln bpd, up 28.1 pct from 3.09 mln,it said. Reuter
UNOCAL <UCL> PLANS INCREASE IN CAPITAL SPENDING Unocal Corp said it intends toincrease its spending for capital projects to 929 mln dlrs in1987, eight pct more than the 862 mln spent in 1986.    The company said in its annual report that it wouldincrease spending for exploration and development of petroleumresources by about three pct to 614 mln dlrs from 1986's 595mln dlrs, assuming oil prices hold around current levels.    The planned spending for exploration and production in 1987remains well below the 1.1 billion dlrs spent in 1985, Unocalsaid.    The company's proved developed and undeveloped reserves ofcrude oil rose slightly in 1986, Unocal said. Net crude oil andcondensate reserves were 752 mln bbls as of Dec 31, 1986,compared to 751 mln bbls at the end of 1985, Unocal said.    The company said its net crude oil and condensateproduction averaged 248,200 barrels per day in 1986 compared to251,300 bpd in 1985.    Unocal said its worldwide natural gas reserves were 6.07billion cubic feet in 1986 compared to 1985's 6.19 billion. Netnatural gas output averaged 976 mln cubic feet per day in 1986,down 10 pct from 1985's 1,084 mln, the company said.    Unocal said its average sales prices for crude oil was12.67 dlrs a barrel worldwide in 1986 compared to 23.81 dlrs in1985, and its average sales price for natural gas was 2.03 dlrsper thousand cubic feet in 1986 against 2.24 dlrs in 1985.    Average production costs for crude oil and natural gasdeclined nearly 30 pct to 3.41 dlrs per bbl of oil equivalentin 1986 from 4.81 dlrs in 1985, Unocal said.    In the annual report, the company called for imposition ofan oil import fee by the U.S. government to set a floor priceof about 25 dlrs a barrel for crude oil.    "Simply stabilizing prices at about 18 dlrs per barrel    will not materialy slow the drop in U.S. production or the risein imports," Chairman Fred Hartley said in the annual report.    "Without decisive action in Washington, this nation willonce again become a hostage to OPEC's plans and policies,"Hartley said. Reuter
PENNZOIL (PZL) WILLING TO SETTLE TEXACO (TX) LAWSUIT Pennzoil Co said it had not yetreceived any "meaningful settlement offer" from Texaco Inc butadded that the company remained willing to consider proposalsto settle the 10.2 billion dlr jury judgment it won againstTexaco.    In its newly-released annual report to shareholders,Pennzoil said it expected the Texas state court judgment, whichwas upheld by a state appeals court on February 12, to beupheld if appealed again.    "To date, Pennzoil has yet to receive any meaningfulsettlement offer from Texaco, though it remains open to anyrealistic effort to settle the matter," Pennzoil chairman HughLiedtke said in the annual report.    Pennzoil also said it had budgeted 212 mln dlrs for capitalspending in 1987, a drop from the 233 mln dlrs spent last year.    Proved U.S. and foreign reserves of natural gas declined to964 billion cubic feet last year, from 1.01 trillion cubic feetin 1985, because of a virtual halt in its exploration program,Pennzoil said. Its crude oil reserves dropped to 140 mlnbarrels from 158 mln barrels in 1985.     The Houston-based company said it sold an average of 339mln cubic feet of domestic natural gas each day last year, a 17pct drop from 1985. The average sales price for gas dropped by60 cents per mcf to 2.16 dlrs per mcf, Pennzoil said.    U.S. crude oil and gas liquids production last year fell toan average of 33,290 barrels per day from 34,102 barrels perday in 1985.    The company's total revenues in 1986 declined to 482.3 mlndlrs, from 762.5 mln dlrs the previous year. Operating incomein 1986 fell more than 80 pct, to 38.0 mln dlrs.    Pennzoil said its goals for 1987 included development ofits Point Arguello oilfield off the California coast, tomaintain current production levels in its Bluebell-AltamontField in Utah and to drill for prospects in the Gulf ofMexico's Mobile Bay area.    "Production should begin late in the year from the HarvestPlatform in the Santa Maria Basin offshore California," thecompany said. "Pennzoil's share of this production initiallyshould be five thousand barrels a day, increasing to a peak of15 thousand barrels a day, net, by 1989."    In its sulphur business, Pennzoil said production totaled2.1 mln long tons last year, a decline of 18 pct from 1985. Theaverage sales price also declined, to 138.25 dlrs per long tonfrom 141.05 dlrs in 1985.    "The long term outlook for our sulphur operations remainsbright," the company said. "We expect sulphur's pricingstructure to strengthen during the current year, probably inthe third and fourth quarters."             Reuter
LATIN OIL PRODUCERS TO MEET IN CARACAS Five regional oil producing nationswill gather in Caracas tommorrow for a two-day meeting expectedto center on ways to combat proposals for a U.S. tax onimported petroleum, the Venezuela's ministry of energy andmines said.    Oil ministers from Mexico, Trinidad and Tobago, Ecuador andVenezuela will be on hand for the fifth meeting of the informalgroup of Latin American and Caribbean Petroleum Exporters,formed in 1983, it said. Colombia will also attend for thefirst time, as an observer nation, the ministry said.    Energy and Mines Minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti saidthe conference has no set agenda but one entire session Fridaywill be devoted to proposals for a tax on imported oil.    Two of the group's members, Venezuela and Mexico, aresecond and third largest foreign suppliers of oil to the UnitedStates, respectively, following Canada.    Venezuela, concerned about the effect such a tax would haveon its exports, undertook a diplomatic push to coordinatestrategy against such measures. In February, Canadian EnergyMinister Marcel Masse was invited to Caracas for talks withHernandez on proposals for an oil import tax. Reuter
GULF ESCORTS STILL UNDER DISCUSSION - WEINBERGER No action has been taken yeton the Reagan Adminstration's offer to escort Kuwaiti oiltankers through the Gulf, but the issue is being discussed,U.S. Secretary of Defence Caspar Weinberger said.    The offer was made to Kuwait in light of Iran's deploymentof Chinese-built missiles to cover the entrance to the Gulf.    Weinberger told reporters prior to a speech at TexasChristian University that he did not think Iran and the UnitedStates were moving towards a potential conflict, adding thatthe Straits of Hormuz at the mouth of the Gulf were still "freewater." REUTER
GULF ESCORTS STILL UNDER DISCUSSION - WEINBERGER No action has been taken yeton the Reagan Adminstration's offer to escort Kuwaiti oiltankers through the Gulf, but the issue is being discussed,U.S. Secretary of Defence Caspar Weinberger said.    The offer was made to Kuwait in light of Iran's deploymentof Chinese-built missiles to cover the entrance to the Gulf.    Weinberger told reporters prior to a speech at TexasChristian University that he did not think Iran and the UnitedStates were moving towards a potential conflict, adding thatthe Straits of Hormuz at the mouth of the Gulf were still "freewater." REUTER
S. KOREA MAY BUY U.S. OIL TO AID TRADE BALANCE South Korea is studying a plan to buymore coal from the United States and to start importing Alaskancrude oil to help reduce its huge trade surplus with the UnitedStates, Energy Ministry officials said today.    They said the plan would dominate discussions at two-dayenergy talks between officials of the two countries inWashington from April 1.    Huh Sun-yong, who will attend the talks with three otherSeoul government officials, told Reuters that Seoul was"positively considering buying a certain amount of Alaskan oilbeginning this year as part of our government's overall plan toreduce a widening trade gap between the two countries."    Huh said however that South Korean refineries consideredthe Alaskan oil economically uncompetitive. Reuter
WALL STREET STOCKS/U.S. OIL COMPANIES British Petroleum Co PLC'sannouncement that its U.S. subsidiary intends to tender for the45 pct of Standard Oil Co <SRD> it does not already own,catapulted U.S. oil stocks sharply higher this morning, tradersand analysts said.    "It raises the specter of additional consolidation in theindustry and that is what is boosting the other oils," analystRosario Ilacqua of L.F. Rothschild said.    Sanford Margoshes of Shearson Lehman Brothers said "thisdeal shows that British Petroleum, a conservative investor thatknows the oil business, is clearly confident in the U.S. oilindustry, and that shines well on the U.S. companies." More
WALL STREET STOCKS/U.S. OIL COMPANIES British Petroleum Co PLC'sannouncement that its U.S. subsidiary intends to tender for the45 pct of Standard Oil Co <SRD> it does not already own,catapulted U.S. oil stocks sharply higher this morning, tradersand analysts said.    "It raises the specter of additional consolidation in theindustry and that is what is boosting the other oils," analystRosario Ilacqua of L.F. Rothschild said.    Sanford Margoshes of Shearson Lehman Brothers said "thisdeal shows that British Petroleum, a conservative investor thatknows the oil business, is clearly confident in the U.S. oilindustry, and that shines well on the U.S. companies."    Philips Petroleum <P> gained 3/4 to 15-7/8, OccidentalPetroleum <OXY> one to 34-5/8, USX Corp <X>, with its MarathonOil Co unit, rose 1/2 to 28-3/8. Exxon <XON> climbed one to88-3/8, Mobil <MOB> one to 50-1/4, Atlantic Richfield <ARC>3-1/8 to 80-1/2, Amoco <AN> 1-7/8 to 84-1/8, and Amerada Hessone to 33-5/8. BP gained 2-3/8 to 59-3/4.    Both analysts said the rise in Standard's price thismorning to above the proposed tender price of 70 dlrs a share,is an indication that investors expect the bid to be sweetened.Standard gained 6-3/4 to 71-5/8.    The analysts cited Royal Dutch/Shell Group's <RD> <SC> bidfor Shell Oil Co, which was sweetened before its successfulconclusion.    Margoshes said the BP action "is an articulation of theunderlying value of oil companies in the marketplace." But heexpressed skepticism that this will necessarily lead toheightened merger or buyout activity in the oil group. Reuter
BP <BP> DOES NOT PLAN TO HIKE STANDARD <SRD> BID British Petroleum Co Plc does notintend to raise the price of its planned 70 dlr per share offerfor the publicly held 45 pct of Standard Oil Co, BP ManagingDirector David Simon said.    "We don't seen this as any progressive bidding game," hetold reporters at a news conference. BP now owns 55 pct ofStandard's stock.    Simon said BP had carefully considered the amount of itsplanned bid and he quoted an oil analyst, whom he would notidentify, as saying BP's careful evaluation means the companyis not going to raise its offer.    "I think that (an increase) would be totally wrong. I thinkthe price is very fair and it is much to early to speculateabout ligigation," he said. "Let's wait and see how the offerruns."    Another official declined to speculate under whatcircumstances BP might raise its bid.    The BP official said the 70 dlrs a share offer is 7.2 timesStandard's 1986 cash flow and 56 pct above an independentevaluation of the company's assets, including the value of itsoil, natural gas liquids and natural gas reserves.    He said the price Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD> <SC> paidfor publicly held Shell Oil Co shares in 1985 was 5.1 timescash flow.    The BP official also said the 70 dlr bid is a 40 pctpremium over Standard's stock price over the past year.    BP Group Treasurer Rodney Chase said more than half to asmuch as two-third's of the 7.4 billion dlrs BP needs for itsoffer will come from existing sources. The rest will befinanced by new debt.    BP will draw in cash from its operating companies aroundthe world and is also arranging a five billion dlr line ofcredit, he explained.    The company's debt to equity ratio will rise 11 or 12percentage points from the current 33 pct if the offer iscompleted, Chase said. But the ratio will be back below 40 pctwithin 12 months, he added.    Chase also said 50 to 60 pct of Standard Oil's publiclyheld shares are held by financial institutions.    Simon said Standard's board was informed of the offer onMarch nine and has been considering it since that time.    He said BP does not expect any regulatory problems thatwould delay completion of the acquisition. "We have informedWashington of our intentions and we've already been an integralpart of ownership of U.S. oil reserves," he pointed out.    Simon said there is a good chance that current world oilprices of about 18 dlrs a barrel could be maintained, and thatthe more stable market is due mostly to changes in policy inSaudi Arabia and other OPEC members to control oil production.    "We think there are signals that current conditions aremore favorable than they have been for sometime," Simon said.    "We have hopes for greater stability, but we do not seeprices going much higher," he added. Reuter
USX <X> SAYS TALKS ENDED WITH BRITISH PETROLEUM USX Corp chairman David Roderick saidthe company had ended talks with British Petroleum Co Plc <BP>about the possible sale of some energy assets and said USX hasno immediate restructuring plans for its oil businesses.    "We have terminated our discussions," Roderick told Reutersafter a speech to the Petroleum Equipment Suppliers Associationhere. He said USX was not conducting talks with any otherpossible buyer of its energy assets.    Earlier today, BP said it planned to offer 70 dlrs pershare for the Standard Oil Co's <SRD> publicly held stock.    USX said in December the company had held formaldiscussions with BP about the potential sale of some of itsoverseas oil assets and USX had received expressions ofinterest from a half dozen other oil companies.    Roderick, in response to a question, said USX had noimmediate plans to restructure its Marathon Oil Co, or TexasOil and Gas Corp. He said USX also did not plan to sell any ofits 49 pct interest in the giant Yates Field in west Texas.    "We want to maintain our production in the Yates Fieldduring these difficult times," Roderick added.    In response to a question, Roderick also said he did notknow whether Australian investor Robert Holmes a Court wasaccumulating USX stock. In recent days, traders have suggestedHolmes a Court was buying additional shares.    Roderick said Carl Ichan, who terminated an eight billiondlr hostile takeover plan for USX in January, continued to holda sizable interest in the company. "Mr. Ichan still apparentlyhas 11.4 pct. He hasn't bought any more stock or sold any,"Roderick said. "He's a very satisfied shareholder right now. Italk with him monthly."    In his speech, Roderick predicted the fall in the value ofthe dollar would set the stage for the U.S. to solve its tradedeficit problem which totaled 170 billion dlrs in 1986.    "I expect by the early 1990s the U.S. will be running a nettrade surplus," Roderick said. "I think the worst is over andwe can look forward to stability and upward movement ahead."    However, the USX chairman warned that European tradingpartners may resist the turn in the U.S. trade deficit. "Someeconomic discomfort must be transferred from the United Statesto our friends, trading partners and allies." Reuter
BP <BP> MAY HAVE TO RAISE BID -  ANALYSTS British Petroleum Co PLC may have toraise its planned 70 dlrs a share tender offer for the publiclytraded shares of Standard Oil Co <SRD>, analysts said.    "There's a lot of speculation here that someway or otherthey would be forced to come up with another bid," said RosarioIlaqua of L.F. Rothschild.    And despite BP managing director David Simon's denial todaythat BP would raise the offer, the analysts said that remaineda distinct possibility.    Analysts said they base their thinking on Royal Dutch/ShellGroup's <RD> <SC> bid to buy the outstanding stake of Shell OilCo in 1984 and 1985. Royal Dutch/Shell eventually raised itsinitial 55 dlrs a share offer to 60 dlrs a share, afterlawsuits by minority shareholders.    "I think they're going to have to go a little highereventually, just as Royal Dutch/Shell had to go a little higherfor the Shell Oil minority shares," Bruce Lazier of PrescottBall and Turben said. He estimated a price of 75 dlrs a share.    Royal Dutch/Shell offered 55 dlrs a share for the 30.5 pctof Shell Oil it did not already own in January of 1984. Afterobjections from minority shareholders about the price, RoyalDutch/Shell raised its bid and began a 58 dlrs a share tenderoffer in April 1984.    But shareholders sued and a court blocked completion of theoffer. After months of wrangling over the worth of Shell Oil,Royal Dutch/Shell agreed to another two dlrs increase.    It ended up paying 5.67 billion dlrs for the outstandingShell Oil stake, a significant premium to its original bid ofabout 5.2 billion dlrs.    The analysts made their comments before Simon's remarks ata BP press conference in New York this afternoon.    Sanford Margoshes of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc toldclients this morning that a sweetened offer was possible. Theanalyst said the bid could be raised by two dlrs a share.    Analysts do not expect regulatory hurdles because of theRoyal Dutch/Shell group precedent. But there may be shareholderlawsuits for the same reason, they said.    Goldman Sachs and Co, BP's investment advisor, advised theShell Oil board in 1984 and 1985. Reuter
STANDARD OIL <SRD> SEES BOOST IN 1987 CASH FLOW Standard Oil Co expects the sale ofassets and federal tax refunds resulting from last year's lossto add about one billion dlrs to its normal cash flows fromoperations in 1987, its annual report said.    Last year, the report noted, the cash flow from operationsdropped to 1.8 billion dlrs from 3.5 billion dlrs in 1985 and3.2 billion dlrs in 1984 due principally to lower oil prices.    The report, prepared before British Petroleum Co Plc <BP>disclosed plans to seek the rest of Standard's stock, put 1987capital spending at 1.6 billion dlrs, down from the 1.7 billiondlrs projected in January.    Standard's capital spending totaled 1.77 billion dlrs in1986.    The report showed a decline in proven oil reserves to 2.41billion barrels at the end of 1986 from 2.65 billion barrels ayear earlier as discoveries and other additions dropped to 11.4mln barrels last year from 23.2 mln in 1985.    But it said gas reeserves rose to 7.31 trillion cubic feetfrom 7.22 trillion at the end of 1985 despite a 30.9 mln cubicfeet downward revision in previous reserve estimates during1986. Discoveries and other additions totaled 200.5 billioncubic feet last year, up from 175.9 billion in 1985, it added.    Standard said both oil and gas production increased lastyear -- to 726,600 barrels per day from 719,700 barrels theprevious day and to 154.4 mln cubic feet daily from 10.1 mln in1985.    But the average sales price of both dropped -- to 13.83dlrs per barrel from 26.43 dlrs for oil in 1985 and to 1.49dlrs per thousand cubic feet from 2.18 dlrs a year earlier.    Standard said its refined product sales also rose lastyear, to 644,500 barrels per day from 604,200 barrels daily in1985. Reuter
NEXT FEW MONTHS CRUCIAL FOR OIL - HERNANDEZ Energy and Mines Minister ArturoHernandez Grisanti today told a meeting of regional oilexporters the next few months will be critical to efforts toachieve price recovery and stabilize the market.     Hernandez said while OPEC and non-OPEC nations havealready made some strides in their efforts to strengthen themarket, the danger of a reversal is always present.    "March and the next two or three months will be a reallycritical period," Hernandez said. He said, "We will be able todefine a movement, either towards market stability and pricerecovery or, depending on the market, a reversal."    Earlier this week, Hernandez said Venezuela's oil price hasaveraged just above 16 dlrs a barrel for the year to date. IfOPEC achieves its stated goal of an 18 dlrs a barrel averageprice, he said, Venezuela's should move up to 16.50 dlrs.    Hernandez spoke today at the opening of the fifthministerial meeting of the informal group of Latin American andCaribbean oil exporters, formed in 1983.    Ministers from member states Ecuador, Mexico,Trinidad-Tobago and Venezuela are attending the two dayconference, while Colombia is present for the first time as anobserver.    Hernandez defined the meeting as an informal exchange ofideas about the oil market. However, the members will alsodiscuss ways to combat proposals for a tax on imported oilcurrently before the U.S. Congress.    Following the opening session, the group of ministers metwith President Jaime Lusinchi at Miraflores, the presidentialpalace. The delegations to the conference are headed byHernandez of Venezuela, Energy Minister Javier Espinosa ofEcuador, Energy Minister Kelvin Ramnath of Trinidad-Tobago,Jose Luis Alcudiai, assistant energy secretary of Mexico andEnergy Minister Guilermno Perry Rubio of Colombia. Reuter
BRAZIL OIL OUTPUT FELL IN FEBRUARY, USAGE UP Brazilian crude oil andliquefied natural gas production fell to an average 583,747barrels per day in February from 596,740 in the same 1986month, the state oil company Petrobras said.    The drop was due to operating problems in the Campos Basin,the country's main producing area, where output was down to346,011 bpd from 357,420, a Petrobras statement said.    Consumption of oil derivatives totalled 1.14 mln bpd inFebruary, 16.7 pct up on February last year but down from therecord 1.22 mln bpd used in October last year. Use of alcoholfuel in February was 208,600 bpd, 42 pct above February, 1986. Reuter
OIL EXECUTIVES SEE GRADUAL RISE IN PRICES Top executives with Tenneco Corp <TGT>and Sabine Corp <SAB> said they expected world oil prices togradually increase over the next two years as U.S. reliance onimports of oil from the Middle East grows.     "I believe we have bottomed out and can look forward to atrend of gradually increasing prices," C.W. Nance, president ofTenneco Oil Exploration and Production, told a meeting of thePetroleum Equipment Suppliers Association.     Nance predicted that by 1990, the Organization ofProducing and Exporting Countries would be producing at therate of 80 pct of capacity.    The gain will come largely through increased imports to theUnited States, he said.    "They will be able to raise the price again but I do notthink they will raise it as much as they did in 1979," Nancesaid. He did not say how much of a price hike he expected.     Andrew Shoup, chairman of Dallas-based Sabine, predictedthat world oil prices would increase from a range of 15 to 20dlrs a barrel in 1987 to a range of 17 to 22 dlrs a barrel in1988. Natural gas prices, Shoup said, should similarly climbfrom a range of 1.30 to 1.70 dlrs per mcf this year to between1.50 and 1.90 dlrs per mcf in 1988.     "Fuel switching could help us as much as five pct inincreased demand," Shoup said, referring to the gas industry'soutlook for 1987. Repeal of the Fuel Use Act, a federal lawprohibiting the use of natural gas in new manufacturing plantsand utilities, could increase demand for gas by as much as 15pct, he said.     Tenneco's Nance also said that some U.S. cities mayexperience peak day shortages in natural gas supplies nextwinter because of the industry's reduced deliverability.     Tenneco's gas deliverability, for example, dropped by 20pct during 1986, he said.     "This does not mean the gas bubble is gone," Nance said."We believe gas prices have bottomed out. The real question ishow broad the valley is -- is it one year, two years or threeyears before we start to climb out?"      J.C. Walter of <Walter Oil and Gas Corp>, said the recentimprovement in oil prices was not enough for independentproducers to begin new onshore drilling projects.     "If crude oil stays below 20 dlrs a barrel and 1.50 dlrper mcf for natural gas prevails, the prospects for onshoreexploration at deeper depths in the Texas Gulf Coast byindependents in the 1990s are pretty dismal," Walter said.     He suggested that some independents may instead turn toexploration in shallow federal offshore leases. Farm-outagreements, cheap rig rates and less competition have heldfinding costs in those areas to five or six dlrs a barrel,Walter said. Reuter
INDIA STEPS UP COUNTERTRADE DEALS TO CUT TRADE GAP India is searching for non-communistcountertrade partners to help it cut its trade deficit andconserve foreign exchange.    Wheat, tobacco, tea, coffee, jute, engineering andelectronic goods, as well as minerals including iron ore, areall on offer in return for crude oil, petroleum products,chemicals, steel and machinery, trade sources told Reuters.    Most of the impetus behind countertrade, which began in1984, comes from two state trading firms -- the State TradingCorp (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corp (MMTC).    "The two state trading corporations are free to use theirbuying power in respect to bulk commodities to promote Indianexports," a commerce ministry spokeswoman said, adding thatprivate firms are excluded from countertrading.    One trade source said India has targetted countries thatdepend on an Indian domestic market recently opened to foreignimports.    However, countertrade deals still make up only a small partof India's total trading and are likely to account for lessthan eight pct of the estimated 18.53 billion dlrs in tradeduring the nine months ended December, the sources said.    Countertrade accounted for just five pct of India's 25.65billion dlrs in trade during fiscal 1985/86 ended March,against almost nothing in 1984/85, official figures show.    However, the figures exclude exchanges with the EasternBloc paid in non-convertible Indian rupees, the sources said.    Total trade with the Soviet Union, involving swaps ofagricultural produce and textiles for Soviet arms and crudeoil, is estimated at 3.04 billion dlrs in fiscal 1986/87,against three billion in 1985/86.    Indian countertrade, which is being promoted mainly to helpnarrow the country's large trade deficit, is stillinsignificant compared with agreements reached by Indonesia,Venezuela and Brazil, the trade sources said.    The trade deficit, which hit an estimated record 6.96billion dlrs in 1985/86, is expected to decline to 5.6 billionin the current fiscal year.    But the push to include non-communist countries incountertrade is also due to other factors, including the slowgrowth of foreign reserves, a tight debt repayment schedule,shrinking aid and trade protectionism, businessmen said.    One source said India is showing more dynamism in promotingcountertrade deals than in the past, when the deals were madediscreetly because they break GATT rules. As a member of theGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), India cannotofficially support bartering.    The MMTC's recent countertrade deals include iron oreexports to Yugoslavia for steel structures and rails.    "MMTC's recent global tenders now include a clause thatpreference will be given to parties who accept payment in kindfor goods and services sold to India," a trade official said,adding that the policy remains flexible.    "We also take into account other factors such as prices atwhich the goods and services are offered to India," the tradeofficial said.    Early this year the commerce ministry quietly told foreigncompanies interested in selling aircraft, ships, drilling rigsand railway equipment to India that they stood a better chanceif they bought Indian goods or services in return, the tradesources said.    Illustrating the point, the official said a South Koreanfirm recently agreed to sell a drilling platform worth 40 mlndlrs to the state-run Oil and Natural Gas Commission.    In return, the South Koreans gave a verbal assurance to buyIndian goods worth 10 pct of the contract, against the 25 pctsought by New Delhi, the trade official said.    "We selected the Korean firm because its bid was the lowest,"he added.    Countertrade is helping African countries short of foreigncurrency to import goods. India has signed a trade protocol tobuy up to 15,000 tonnes of asbestos fibre from Zimbabwe inexchange for Indian goods, including jute bags and cars.    But despite India's new drive, countertrade has someinherent problems, they added.    "It is not always easy to meet the basic requirement thatthe trade should always be balanced," one trade source said. "Theother problem is it is often difficult to supply or buycommodities which the other party wants."    Another added, "Barter is also restrictive. We look upon itas a temporary measure to get over the current balance ofpayments difficulty.    "This is why countertrade has not been made a law in India.It does not even figure in the country's foreign trade policy." REUTER
PAPANDREOU SAYS GREEKS READY FOR AGGRESSORS Greek Prime Minister Andreas Papandreousaid today that the Greek armed froces were ready to tackle anyaggressors following the sailing of a Turkish research vesseland warships towards disputed waters in the Aegean Sea.    Papandreou told an emergency cabinet meeting in Athens "themilitary readiness of our country is able now to give a veryhard lesson if our neighbours (Turkey) were to carry outmilitary actions."    He said the activities of the research vessel could beaimed at partitioning the Aegean.    "The air force, navy and army are in a state of alert,"General Guven Ergenc, Secretary General of the Turkish GeneralStaff, told a news conference.    He said the Turkish research ship Sismik 1, escorted by anunspecified number of warships, would sail into disputed watersin the Aegean Sea tomorrow morning.    Ergenc told Reuters later that all leave had been cancelledfor members of the armed forces in the Aegean coast area.    The Turkish government said yesterday it had licensed thestate-owned Turkish Petroleum Corp to explore for oil ininternational waters around three Greek islands off Turkey.     Greece and Turkey have long-standing disputes over areasof the Aegean and the presence of Turkish troops in Cyprus.    The latest row erupted when the Greek government said lastmonth that it was taking control of a Canadian-led consortiumwhich was already producing oil off the Greek island of Thassosand would drill in the same area after the takeover.    Ergenc told the news conference the alert followed agovernment decision that Turkey should protect its interests"because of measures Greece has been taking in the Aegean inviolation of international agreements."    Asked how Turkey would react if Greece attacked any of thevessels, he said "If there is an attack, it is clear what has tobe done. An attack on a warship is a cause for war." But headded "We are not in a state of war. The measures taken by themilitary are directed towards protecting our rights."    Greece said yesterday it would defend its national rightsin the Aegean and urged Turkey to accept reference of thedispute to the International Court of Justice in The Hague.    Turkish Foreign Ministry spokesman Yalim Eralp toldreporters today this was unacceptable because of preconditionsAthens had attached.    In Athens, Greek Prime Minister Papandreou said that if theTurkish vessel Sismik 1 began research operations "we willhinder it, of course not with words, as it cannot be stoppedwith words."    Greek newspapers said the armed forces were on alert andnavy ships had gone to the Aegean. But government spokesmanYannis Roubatis did not confirm the move, saying only "The Greekfleet is not at its naval base."    Papandreou said that a map issued in Turkey showed 95 pctof the areas proposed for research were on the Greekcontinental shelf.    Papandreou told the U.S. And NATO that if they had a partin orchestrating the present crisis in order to force Greece tonegotiate with Turkey, the Greek government would not acceptit.    Papandreou has maintained in the past that he will notnegotiate with Ankara until Turkey recognises Greek rights inthe Aegean and withdraws its troops from Cyprus.    He said that in the case of war with Turkey it would not bepossible for Greece to discuss the future of American militarybases here. Asked by reporters if he would close the U.S. Basesin Greece in the event of war, Papandreou replied "Obviously,and perhaps even before the war." REUTER
INDIA STEPS UP COUNTERTRADE DEALS India is searching for non-communistcountertrade partners to help it cut its trade deficit andconserve foreign exchange.    Wheat, tobacco, tea, coffee, jute, engineering andelectronic goods, as well as minerals including iron ore, areall on offer in return for crude oil, petroleum products,chemicals, steel and machinery, trade sources told Reuters.    Most of the impetus behind countertrade, which began in1984, comes from two state trading firms -- the State TradingCorp (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corp (MMTC).    "The two state trading corporations are free to use theirbuying power in respect to bulk commodities to promote Indianexports," a commerce ministry spokeswoman said, adding thatprivate firms are excluded from countertrading.    One trade source said India has targetted countries thatdepend on an Indian domestic market recently opened to foreignimports. But countertrade deals still make up only a small partof India's total trading and are likely to account for lessthan eight pct of the estimated 18.53 billion dlrs in tradeduring the nine months ended December, the sources said.    Countertrade accounted for just five pct of India's 25.65billion dlrs in trade during fiscal 1985/86 ended March,against almost nothing in 1984/85, official figures show.    However, the figures exclude exchanges with the EasternBloc paid in non-convertible Indian rupees, the sources said.    Total trade with the Soviet Union, involving swaps ofagricultural produce and textiles for Soviet arms and crudeoil, is estimated at 3.04 billion dlrs in fiscal 1986/87. Reuter
NATO HOLDS EMERGENCY MEETING ON AEGEAN CRISIS NATO ambassadors met in emergencysession today to discuss tension between members Greece andTurkey over a disputed area of the Aegean Sea on the WesternAlliance's southern flank, Greek diplomatic sources said.    They said no information had yet emerged from the meeting,called after statements from both countries that they wereprepared to back rival oil exploration teams with warships.    General Guven Ergenc, Secretary General of the TurkishGeneral Staff, said today the Turkish research ship Sismik 1,escorted by an unspecified number of warships, would sail intodisputed waters in the Aegean Sea tomorrow morning.    Greek Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou said "The militaryreadiness of our country is able now to give a very hard lessonif our neighbours (Turkey) were to carry out military actions."    The row erupted when the Greek government said last monththat it was taking control of a Canadian-led consortium whichwas already producing oil off the Greek island of Thassos andwould drill in the same area after the takeover. REUTER
NATO CALLS ON GREECE AND TURKEY TO AVOID FORCE Greece and Turkey's NATO allies todaycalled on both countries to avoid any action that couldaggravate an explosive situation in the Aegean and "avoidrecourse to force at all costs."    After an emergency meeting of NATO ambassadors, a statementwas issued saying "the present situation damages the interestsof Greece and Turkey, and of the Alliance as a whole."    Secretary-General Lord Carrington also offered himself as amediator in the dispute on the Western Alliance's southernflank.    The meeting was called after reports that warships of bothcountries were sailing towards a disputed oil exploration zoneof the Aegean.    The statement said the tensions in the area had reached aserious level and called on both countries to begin immediatediscussions. "Any intensification would make things worse," itadded.    No attempt was made at the meeting to resolve the complexdispute which was aimed at damage-limitation. Carrington said,"I am of course anxious to help in any way I can, provided thatboth Greece and Turkey, and the other allies, wish me to do so." REUTER
U.S. ENERGY COSTS ROSE IN FEBRUARY BY 1.9 PCT Consumer energy costs rose 1.9 pctin February following a sharp rise last month, the LaborDepartment said.    The February increase in the overall energy costs,including petroleum, coal and natural gas, followed a 0.2 pctdrop in December and a 3.0 pct rise in January, it said.    Energy prices were 12.2 pct below year-ago levels.    The department's Consumer Price Index showed that the costof gasoline rose in February by 4.2 pct, after a 6.6 pct risein January.    Gasoline prices were nonetheless 18.0 pct below theirlevels as of February 1986.    Also, the category including fuel oil, coal and bottled gasrose in February by 3.8 pct, putting it 14.9 pct under theyear-ago figure.    The index also showed that natural gas and electricity wereunchanged last month, but down 3.5 pct from the February 1986figure, the department said.    The index has been updated  o reflect 1982-84 consumptionpatterns; previously, the index was based on 1972-73 patterns. Reuter
TURKISH SHIP IN OIL ROW HEADS FOR AEGEAN A Turkish research ship, escorted bywarships and air force planes, left for the Aegean to pressAnkara's case in an escalating row with Greece over oil rights,the semi-official Anatolian News Agency said.    The ship set off this morning from the Dardanelles port ofCanakkale with flags flying and watched by sightseers, theagency said.    Prime Minister Turgut Ozal said last night the ship wouldnot go into international waters unless Greece did the same.    "We are waiting for the first move from them," he toldTurkish Radio in London. REUTER
PAPANDREOU SHOWS "RESTRICTED OPTIMISM" OVER CRISIS Greek Prime Minister Andreas Papandreouexpressed "restricted optimism" about a crisis with Turkey overdisputed oil rights in the Aegean Sea.    Papandreou was speaking to reporters after briefingopposition political leaders on the latest developments in therow as a Turkish research ship escorted by warships and combataircraft headed for the Aegean.    He and other political leaders spoke of qualified optimismfollowing a statement by Turkish Premier Turgut Ozal last nightthat the research vessel would not enter disputed waters aspreviously annnounced unless Greek vessels did so.    The Prime Minister declined to answer reporters' questionsabout an announcement last night that Greece had asked theUnited States to suspend operations at one of the Americanmilitary bases here due to the crisis.    But Opposition leader Constantine Mitsotakis told reportershe thought the suspension would be temporary until the crisisis resolved. A U.S. Defence Department official in Washingtonsaid the station was still functioning.    Communist Party leader Harilaos Florakis said here "theclimate is calmer today."    Greek newspapers reported that the Greek army, navy and airforce had been moved to strategic Greek islands in the Aegeanand to the land border with Turkey at the Evros River.    But there was no official word on military movements apartfrom a comment by the government spokesman that the Greek navywas no longer in port.    The United States, NATO and the United Nations all calledon Greece and Turkey to exercise restraint.    Greek U.N. Representative Mihalis Dounas said in a letterto the secretary-general that the dispute was of a legal natureand could be settled in the International Court in the Hague. REUTER
TURKISH-GREEK AEGEAN TENSION ABATES Turkey"s standoff with Greece over Aegeanoil rights appeared at an end after the government said it hadbeen assured Athens would not start prospecting in disputedwaters.    A Foreign Ministry statement last night hinted Turkey wasclaiming victory. A Greek-based international consortium, NorthAegean Petroleum Co., Had given up plans to start searching foroil in international waters east of Thasos island, it said.    "In the same way it has been understood that Greece willalso not undertake oil activities outside its territorialwaters," the statement added.    An Ankara Radio report monitored in London said ForeignMinister Vahit Halefolu had called on Greece to engage indialogue over the dispute. It was impossible to resolve thedispute by crises, he was quoted as saying.    "We call on Greece to come and engage in a dialogue with us- let us find a solution as two neighbours and allies should,"he said.    The radio said Halefoglu had briefed the leaders of anumber of the country"s political parties on the latestdevelopments.    Turkey sent the survey ship Sismik 1 into the Aegeanyesterday, flanked by warships, to press its case but havingearlier said it would go into disputed waters, declared thevessel would stay in Turkish areas.    Prime Minister Turgut Ozal, in London on his way home afterheart surgery in the United States, is expected to receive anecstatic welcome from thousands of Turks when he returns today.    He was in defiant mood last night, telling Turkish radio:"We can never accept that Greece should confine us to theAnatolian continent. If there are riches under the sea, theyare for mankind."    Despite the end of the crisis, Turkish officialsacknowledged that the underlying dispute over delimiting thecontinental shelf in the Aegean remained unsolved.    Turkey alleged that the consortium"s plans would haveinfringed the 1976 Berne agreement between the two countries,which called for a moratorium on any activities until thedelimitation was agreed. Greece earlier this month declared itconsiders the accord inoperative. REUTER
BANK SEES MODEST RECOVERY IN GULF ARAB ECONOMIES The Emirates Industrial Bank haspredicted a modest economic recovery in the Gulf Arab statesfollowing higher oil revenues.    A bank study, carried by the Emirates news agency WAM, saidtotal oil revenues of the six Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC)countries were likely to reach 39 billion dlrs this year from33.5 billion in 1986.    The GCC groups Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabiaand the United Arab Emirates (UAE).    The bank said the improvement would result from higher oilprices made possible by last December's OPEC accord to restrainoverall group production.    These curbs have pushed up oil prices from around eightdollars a barrel in mid-1986 to around 18 dlrs.    "All signs point to the possibility of a modest recovery inthe economies of these (GCC) countries, although this expectedgrowth will not be similar to that of the (1970s) boom years,"the study said.    It added, however, that GCC states would experience higherbudget deficits this year because of needs arising from pastrecession and the difficulty of making fresh spending cuts.    The study said the combined GCC bugdet deficits would riseto 23.2 billion dlrs from 17.9 billion last year.    It said lower oil exports cut the GCC states' combinedtrade surplus to 18 billion dlrs in 1986 from 21.5 billion in1985.    The UAE suffered a 19.5 pct drop in gross domestic productto 77.6 billion dirhams last year from 96.4 billion in 1985, itadded. REUTER
TURKEY LIFTS SURVEY SHIP ESCORT AS TENSION ABATES Turkey pulled warships back from closeescort of its Sismik 1 survey ship as the threat of conflictwith Greece over oil rights in the Aegean Sea abated.    The semi-official Anatolian Agency said naval vessels endedtheir close protection of the ship as it continued work inTurkish waters but were following it at a distance.    Popular newspapers headlined what they saw as Turkishresolve and international pressure forcing Greece to pull backfrom planned exploration in disputed international waters.    "Intense United States and NATO efforts bore fruit: Greecewill stay in its national waters," said the daily Gunes. Thetop-selling Hurriyet topped its front page with: "Our resolutestand made Greece see reason."    But two newspapers, Cumhuriyet and Milliyet, noted inidentical headlines -- "Crisis Frozen" -- that the basicdisagreement over exploration rights remained unsolved.    The confrontation eased after the Turkish government saidit had been assured Athens would not begin prospecting indisputed waters. REUTER
POLISH GOVERNMENT HIKES FOOD, FUEL, ENERGY PRICES Poland's communist government raisedfood, fuel and energy prices but said it had taken an economicrisk by reducing the scale of the increases under pressure fromthe country's official trade unions.    A communique broadcast on Saturday evening said food priceswould rise on average by 9.3 pct, petrol, gas and electricityby 25 pct and coal by 50 pct.    The immediate increases will be followed by a rise of 10pct in the cost of meat from April 1. Some postal charges willgo up 100 pct next month and rail and bus fares by 30 pct inOctober.    The government said its annual plan for the economy hadspecified a 13 pct increase in food prices this year.    "Economic reasoning calls for greater price rises than thosewhich have been announced ... The government has taken aneconomic risk in accepting a portion of the trades unions'demands," the communique said.    The National Trade Union Alliance (OPZZ), which claimsseven million members, warned earlier this month it would fightefforts to impose the original range of price rises. It saidthe rises would badly affect the lower paid and the old,despite government pledges to protect their purchasing power.    Solidarity leader Lech Walesa, whose banned organisationhas been replaced by the OPZZ, condemned the increases in frontof a crowd of 1,500 cheering supporters at St Brygida's RomanCatholic Church in the Baltic port of Gdansk.    "For the first time in six years (since Solidarity wasbanned), I say enough. For the first time, I am decidedlyagainst. I am against price rises as being the only sign ofreform," Walesa said.    "I am for reforms. I favour the reforms which (Soviet leaderMikhail) Gorbachev is carrying out  ... But I am not in favourof make-believe reforms," he said. REUTER
BP U.K. REFINERY DUE TO PARTLY RE-OPEN NEXT WEEK The British Petroleum Co PLC (BP.L) oilrefinery at Grangemouth, closed after an explosion and fireeight days ago, is expected to partially reopen next week, arefinery spokesman said.    He said the entire 178,500 bpd refinery has been shut sincethe accident which killed one person and damaged the site'shydrocracker. The main units will resume operation next weekbut the hydrocracker will be closed for an unspecified period.The spokesman said the refinery had been operating at abouthalf its capacity since end-January due to overhaul work onpart of the complex. The overhaul is expected to end by lateApril. REUTER
GREECE SCRAPS U.S. BASE CLOSURE REQUEST Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou haswithdrawn a request to Washington to suspend operations at anAmerican army base near Athens as a Greek-Turkish row over oilrights in the Aegean eased.    A Turkish research ship which Greece had threatened totackle if it sailed into disputed waters in the Aegean Sea keptto Turkish territorial waters yesterday, avoiding a potentialclash.    Papandreou expressed qualified optimism after briefingopposition leaders on Aegean developments early yesterday.    The Greek government later withdrew Friday's request toWashington to close down its telecommunications base at NeaMakri, north of Athens, saying that the reasons which hadprompted it to make the request were no longer valid.    Under the terms of the U.S.-Greek bases accord, Greece hasthe right to ask for suspension of operations at times when itsnational interests are threatened.    The row in the Aegean erupted after Turkey said it wouldsearch for oil round three Greek islands off its coastfollowing an announcement from Greece that it planned to drilleast of Thassos island after taking control of a Canadian-ledoil consortium operating in the northern Aegean.    Turkey accused Greece of breaching the 1976 Berne Agreementunder which both sides agreed to preserve the status quo in theAegean until their continental shelf dispute was settled.Athens says it considers the accord inactive.    The Turkish Foreign Ministry said in a statement it hadreceived an assurance from Greece that it would not carry outoil activities outside its territorial waters. Greece declinedcomment on the statement.    Papandreou repeated an invitation to Turkey to take thelong-standing continental shelf dispute to the InternationalCourt of Justice at The Hague.    Conservative opposition leader Constantine Mitsotakis saidhe had urged Papandreou to accept an offer from NATO GeneralSecretary Lord Carrington to help resolve the row. REUTER
MEXICAN FIRST QTR CRUDE EXPORTS SEEN AT 15.25 DLRS The average price of mexico's crudeoil exports in first quarter 1987 will be 15.25 dlrs perbarrel, according to preliminary figures issued in a pressrelease by the state oil company Petroleos Mexicanos (PEMEX).    It gave no direct comparison with the year-ago figure butsaid crude and products sales were expected to rise to 1.99billion dlrs this quarter, 420 mln dlrs higher than expectedand 22 pct better than the year-ago quarter.    Prospects for the second quarter were relatively favourablewith crude exports seen at 1.320 mln bpd after an expected1.324 mln this month, 1.323 in February and 1.395 mln inJanuary. REUTER
CRUDE OIL NETBACKS UP IN U.S., MEDITERRANEAN Crude oil netback values in complexrefineries rose slightly in the U.S. and the Mediterranean last Friday from the previous week but were lower elsewhere,according to calculations by Reuters Pipeline.    The soft tone to refining margins reflects large worldwidestocks of petroleum products and thin trading activity, traderssaid.    In the U.S. Gulf, sweet crudes rose in value by as much as26 cts a barrel for West Texas Intermediate, an increase of 1.4pct from the previous Friday, while sour crudes, such asAlaska North Slope, were up one pct.    In the Mediterranean, netback values were up 17 cts to 22cts a barrel, with Arab Light up 17 cts a barrel to 18.62 dlrs,a 0.9 pct increase from the previous Friday and Urals were up22 cts a barrel to 19.16 dlrs, a 1.2 pct increase.    But netbacks for crude oil refined in Northern Europe wasgenerally lower with Brent valued at 18.89 dlrs, off 30 ctsfrom the previous friday, and Bonny Light was off 17 cts to19.58 dlrs a barrel.    Refinery netbacks in Singapore were also lower, withheavier and sour crudes weakest. Arab Heavy dropped 10 cts to16.63 dlrs a barrel and Dubai was off 12 cts to 18.09 dlrs.    On the U.S. West Coast, however, netback values for ANS CIFL.A. were weaker with weak gasoline prices sending the yield atcracking plants down 68 cts to 18.42 dlrs from the previousFriday, as shown below in dlrs a barrel.TOPPING.........15.63......16.10......14.30CRACKING........18.42......19.10......16.86    The Mediterranean region also showed netback values risinglast Friday over the previous week with the largest gains shownby Es Sider and the heavier Urals crude oil, which were each up22 cts a barrel last Friday to 19.40 dlrs and 19.16 dlrs abarrel, respectively.    Netback values for the mediterranean region are shown belowin dlrs a barrel.GRADE...........MAR 27.....MAR 20.....FEB 27ES SIDER........19.40......19.18......16.44ARAB LIGHT......18.61......18.44......15.52IRAN LT.........19.25......19.08......16.16KUWAIT..........18.51......18.33......15.42URALS cif.......19.16......18.94......16.07    Netbacks in Northern Europe's refinery region were lowerlast friday from the previous week with Brent falling 1.6 pctto 18.89 dlrs a barrel.     Netbacks for other grades of oil refined in NorthernEurope are shown below in dlrs a barrel.................MAR 27.....MAR 20.....FEB 27BRENT...........18.89......19.19......16.77BONNY LIGHT.....19.58......19.75......17.15ARAB LIGHT......18.49......18.52......16.07URALS CIF.......19.02......18.98......16.54    Refinery netbacks in Singapore were also lower with heavierand sour crudes weakest.    Arab Heavy dropped 10 cts to 16.63 dlrs a barrel and Dubaiwas off 12 cts to 18.09 dlrs.     Netbacks for other grades of oil refined in Singapore  areshown below in dlrs a barrel.GRADE...........MAR 27.....MAR 20.....FEB 27ATTAKA..........19.23......19.24......16.72ARAB LIGHT......18.00......18.10......15.55OMAN............18.21......18.25......16.31DUBAI...........18.09......18.21......15.86ARAB HEAVY......16.63......16.73......14.24 Reuter
VENEZUELA WANTS TO BOOST ITS REFINING CAPACITY Venezuela's state oilcompany Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. wants to raise itsworldwide refining capacity by 150,000 barrels of per day, acompany official attending the National Petroleum RefinersAssociation meeting here said.    He declined to be identified but said PdVSA has thecapacity to refine about 650,000 bpd of crude oil from refiningcentersin Venezuela, Sweden, West Germany, Belgium, and the UnitedStates. The company recently purchased a 50 pct stake in theCorpus Christi, Texas refinery of Champlin Petroleum Co, asubsidiary of Union Pacific Corp <UNP>.    Earlier it bought a similar stake in the Lake Charles, Larefinery owned by Citgo Petroleum Corp, a unit of SouthlandCorp <SLC>.     According to the official, Venezuela is searchingworldwide for the additional refining capacity but he did notmention where the company was looking.     Refineries abroad, he said, guarantee a refining outlet forVenezuelan crude oil while ensuring stability of supply torefiners.    He said Venezuela currently  produces about 1.4 mln bpd ofcrude oil, which is in line with its 1.495 bpd OPEC ceiling. Reuter
SHELL CANADA SCHEDULES ANNUAL REFINERY SHUTDOWN Shell Canada Ltd, 72 pct ownedby Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD> <ST>, scheduled its annualmaintenance refinery shutdowns during the next two months,company spokeswoman Judy Wish said.    Wish said refineries will stockpile production before theshutdowns to maintain normal supply while maintenance iscarried out.    Production at Shell's major refinery at Strathcona Alberta,will be closed for about one month, Wish said.    There will be no layoffs associated with the refinerymaintenance, she added. Reuter
EXXON (XON) SEES SYNFUELS ROLE BY YEAR 2000 Development of costly shale oil,liquified coal and other kinds of synthetic fuels, halted inrecent years because of cheap and abundant petroleum supplies,will become economic again when world oil prices top 30 dlrs abarrel, an Exxon Co USA executive said.    Joe McMillan, a senior vice president, told Reuters afteraddressing a Houston meeting of the American Institute ofChemical Engineers, "By early in the next century, syntheticsshould play a significant role in this country's energysupply."    McMillan also told reporters at a news conference that hebelieved synthetic fuels would become economic to develop whenworld oil prices reached a 30 to 40 dlr a barrel price range.    "You're talking about a 50 pct increase in crude oilprices, but I think that time is coming and we've got to beprepared," McMillan said.    He predicted U.S. oil demand would rise by about one pctannually in the next few years while the nation fails toreplace its oil reserves through exploration. By the turn ofthe century, world oil prices will be significantly higherbecause of declining supplies, McMillan said.    Ashland Oil, Inc. chairman John Hall, who also spoke at themeeting, advocated some form of federal tax incentives to helpspur development of synthetic fuels.    The United States, Hall said, has nearly 500 billion tonsof demonstrated coal reserves, an amount more than triple thatof all the world's known oil reserves.    "We must encourage research now in order to make synfuelscompetitive later," Hall said. The average lead time fordevelopment of a shale oil or liquified coal project is betweenfive and ten years.    Until last year, the federal government had subsidizedsynfuels development through the U.S. Synthetic Fuels Corp., aresearch program created during the Carter Administration withthe goal of developing replacements for up to two mln barrelsof oil.    The corporation was shut down last April when Congressrefused to continue funding its eight billion dlr budgetbecause of uneconomic projects based on forecasts of 50 dlrs abarrel oil and 10 dlr per mcf natural gas during this decade. Reuter
U.S. SHOULD REASSESS MIDEAST POLICY - ANALYST The U.S. should reassessits Mideast policy in light of its rising dependence onimported oil, according to Charles Ebinger of the Center forStrategic and International Studies.     "The prospect of rising dependence on oil imports from theGulf, and the recent revelations of the Tower Commissionreport, mandate more than ever before the need for afundamental reassessment of U.S. interests in the Middle East,"Ebinger said.     He remarks were made in an address to the NationalPetroleum Refiners Association meeting.     "Although in the short run it is difficult to see a directlink between Arab anger and threats to oil supplies, in thecurrent environment it will be increasingly difficult formoderate Arab leaders to be seen as friendly to U.S.interests," Ebinger said.     Oil traders said threats to oil supplies has kept crudeoil prices strong recently although some believe prices will beweaker if demand falls in the spring.    But William Randol, analyst at First Boston Corp, saidcrude oil prices will hold  near current levels this spring.    There will be no spring downturn, said Randol, speaking atthe annual refiner meeting. He said there is a 40 pct chancethat crude oil prices could move higher in the second half ofthe year, following an OPEC meeting scheduled for late June.    He said he expects OPEC will extend its current agreementto restrict production.    OPEC will renew its production pricing agreement in Junebecause the value of the oil exports of the OPEC producers  hasdeclined along with the U.S. dollar, Randol said.    OPEC oil exports are priced in U.S. dollars, and the dollarhas fallen about 30 pct in the last 18 months.    Randol said U.S. crude oil imports will increase 3.5 tofour mln barrels per day by 1990 as consumption rises 1.5 totwo mln bpd, and supplies decline two mln bpd. Reuter
ANALYSTS APPLAUD CSR'S BOLD MOVE TO SELL DELHI CSR Ltd <CSRA.S> has made a bold move inselling its oil and gas interests for almost a billion dlrs andploughing 150 mln into its traditional sugar business, shareanalysts said.    "It sounds like a good deal," Stuart McKibbin of <A.C. Goodeand Co> told Reuters.    CSR said it had dropped plans to float its oil and gasinterests held in the <Delhi Australia Fund> and would insteadsell it to Exxon Corp <XON> unit <Esso Exploration andProduction Australia Inc> for 985 mln dlrs.    In a twin announcement CSR, already Australia's largestsugar refiner, made a 2.20 dlr a share bid for the 70 pct itdoes not already hold in <Pioneer Sugar Mills Ltd>.    "This will be a big shock to the market, which was under theimpression that CSR was well down the road to floating Delhi,"McKibbin said.    A float of part of Delhi would have raised between 200 and300 mln dlrs, but in opting to sell outright, CSR had givenitself the cash to practically eliminate its debt and embark onan ambitious expansion programme in its best-performingdivisions of sugar and building products, analysts said.    CSR not only gets the 985 mln dlrs but also has the rightto share equally with Esso any higher returns resulting from anoil price over 20 U.S. Dlrs a barrel in the next two years.    Delhi is one of Australia's largest onshore oil producersyielding about six mln barrels a year from the Cooper Basin.Analysts said the deal could net CSR as much as three mln dlrsfor every dollar rise in the oil price above 20 dlrs.    Neale Goldston-Morris of Sydney broker <Bain and Co Ltd>said the move out of Delhi and investment in the sugar industrywas a sensible one but added that it represented the loss ofAustralian-owned assets to a foreign company.    "The farm they bought back a few years ago is being soldback to the Americans," Goldston-Morris said.    The Pioneer Sugar investment would make CSR by far thelargest player in Australia's 850 mln dlr a year sugar industryand would give it access to some of the best sugar propertiesand mills in the country, analysts said.    They said Pioneer Sugar was expected to recommendacceptance of the bid through which CSR would benefit from thebottom out of a cyclical downturn in sugar prices.    Sugar prices are forecast to rise to 340 dlrs a tonne nextseason from an estimated 270 dlrs this year, they said.    Selling Delhi meant CSR has finally quit a damaginginvestment, made in 1981, which has dragged down the company'soverall performance, analysts said.    CSR last year wrote off more than 550 mln dlrs in losses onwhat had been a 591 mln U.S. Dlr investment financed entirelyfrom U.S. Dollar debt, they said.    "It was a bad investment for them. They financed it entirelywith debt, the currency collapsed on them and then the oilprice collapsed on them," Owen Evans of Sydney broker <Mearesand Philips Ltd> said.    Esso not only picked up Delhi's oil and gas output but alsogained as much as 300 mln dlrs in transferable tax lossesaccumulated in exploration allowances and other concessions.    Analysts said Esso also gained its first real onshore stakein Australia in its first major diversification from the 50/50Bass Strait partnership with The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd<BRKN.S>.    "Esso has been very keen to diversify from the GippslandBasin. They haven't found too much oil in Bass Strait latelyand Esso needed a large pool of ongoing production,"Goldston-Morris said. REUTER
CSR SELLS OIL/GAS INTERESTS, BIDS TO EXTEND SUGAR CSR Ltd has made a bold move in sellingits oil and gas interests for almost a billion dlrs andploughing 150 mln into its traditional sugar business, shareanalysts said.    CSR said it had dropped plans to float its oil and gasinterests held in the Delhi Australia Fund and would insteadsell them to Exxon Corp unit Esso Exploration and ProductionAustralia Inc for 985 mln dlrs.    In a twin announcement CSR, already Australia's largestsugar refiner, made a 2.20 dlr a share bid for the 70 pct itdoes not already hold in Pioneer Sugar Mills Ltd.    A float of part of Delhi would have raised between 200 and300 mln dlrs, but in opting to sell outright CSR had givenitself the cash to all but eliminate its debt and embark on anambitious expansion programme in its best-performing divisionsof sugar and building products, analysts said.    The Pioneer Sugar investment would give CSR by far thelargest stake in Australia's 850 mln dlr a year sugar industryand access to some of the best sugar properties and mills inthe country, they said. Pioneer Sugar was expected to recommendacceptance of the bid, through which CSR would benefit from thebottoming out of a cyclical downturn in sugar prices. REUTER
EXXON <XON> OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION ROSE IN 1986 Exxon Corp said in its annual reportthat it raised production in 1986 although it did not replaceall oil and gas produced.    The company said that it added about four pct to productionbringing it to 1.8 mln bpd, the highest level since 1979, basedlargely on increased production of oil overseas but additionsto its reserves from new discoveries and reserve acquisitionsdid not replace all of the oil and gas produced.    The company said that the average price for oil and gasdeclined 41 pct in 1986 from the previous year sparking a 38pct decline in its earnings from exploration and production.    Exxon's earnings from exploration and production in 1986fell to 3.1 billion dlrs from 4.9 billion dlrs in 1985.    Exxon said that its principal gains in production came fromthe Gulf of Mexico, Alaska, the North Sea, Malaysia and fromoil sands in Canada.    Exxon also said that it acquired 11.2 mln acres forexpoloration spread over 10 countries including the U.S, Europeand the Far East.    But capital expenditures for exploration and productionwere cut to 4.6 billion dlrs from 7.6 billion the previous yearand further reductions were expected in 1987.    Exxon said that its net share of crude oil and natural gasliquids produced from offshore fields in the North Sea reacheda new high of 422,000 bpd.    The light, sweet crudes produced from these North Seafields also gave the company trading gains as Exxon was able tosell much of this crude and replace it with cheaper, lowerquality crude oil for its refineries which have been upgradedover the past several years.    The trading gains and lower acquisition costs gave Exxonmore of a spread in its refinery operations and added toearnings gains from refining and marketing.    Exxon said earnings from refining and marketing operationsrose to nearly two billion dlrs in 1986, up from 872 mln dlrsin 1985.    The company said petroleum sales slipped slightly to 4.043mln barrels per day from 4.082 mln bpd in 1985 while crude runsrose to 3.0 mln bpd from 2.9 mln bpd the previous year.    Exxon's refinery operations benefited from a three year 500mln dlr upgrading program to its Baytown, Texas refinerycompleted last October and an 850 mln dlr upgrading project inRotterdam both of which emphasize utilizing lower grade crudesto extract higher proportions of light products. Reuter
EXXON <XON> GAINS DUE TO STREAMLINED OPERATIONS Exxon Corp said that 1986's 15 pctincrease in earnings per share to 7.42 dlrs a share werepartially based on its streamlined operations which compensatedfor the weakness in its exploration earnings and the lowestcrude oil prices in a decade.    Exxon said economies introduced in its operations fromreductions in personnel and other savings, such as reductionsin exploration expenses, were reflected in an 880 mln dlrreduction in consolidated operating costs from 1985.    The company said its more efficient operations would benecessary to offset more adverse oil market conditions ahead.    The company also said that its share repurchase plancontributed to the per share gains over 1985.    In a breakdown of costs, Exxon said that operating expensesslipped to 9.2 billion dlrs in 1986 from 9.7 billion dlrs theprevious year and exploration expenses, including dry holes,slipped back to 1.2 billion dlrs from 1.5 billion dlrs over thesame period as the number of wells drilled was lower.    The company was also able to use lower interest rates toreduce its interest expenses to 614 mln dlrs in 1986 from 627mln dlrs the previous year.    Exxon said that the ratio of debt to capital was cut by 1.6pct in 1986 from the previous year to 19 pct.    On December 31, 1986 Exxon's total debt of 7.87 billiondlrs was down slightly from the previous year's 7.9 billiondlrs and long term debt stood at 4.3 billion dlrs, down from4.8 billion dlrs in 1985.    Exxon's policy of repurchasing shares on the market for itstreasury also contributed to earnings results by a reduction ofshares to 722.6 mln shares from 754.1 mln shares the previousyear. Reuter
CHEVRON <CHV>, NIPPON OIL FORM JOINT VENTURE Chevron Corp said its ChevronU.S.A. Inc unit and Tokyo-based Nippon Oil Co Ltd agreed toconduct a joint-venture oil exploration and development programon selected Chevron leaseholds in the United States.    About 50 onshore and offshore exploratory wells will bedrilled under the agreement and Chevron will be the operator ofthe project and pay some costs, the company said.    It said Nippon will contribute an initial investment ofmore than 100 mln dlrs.    The Japanese government will also participate in theventure by providing financing to Nippon through the JapaneseOil Corp, Chevron said.    It said drilling will begin during the second quarter.    Properties to be evaluated are located in California,Colorado, Kansas, Oklahoma, Mississippi, Montana, North Dakota,Texas, Utah, and Wyoming, along with Federal Outer ContinentalShelf leases offshore Southern California and in the Gulf ofMexico, Chevron said. Reuter
TREASURY'S BAKER SEES REAGAN OPPOSING OIL TAX Treasury Secretary James Baker toldthe House Appropriations Committee that he believes thepresident remains opposed to an oil import fee.    He said Reagan last year rejected the idea and he added:    "In my personal view he is not likely to change his thinkingon that."    He said Reagan last year opposed the idea because theenergy industry was divided on the issue, a tax would require anew bureacracy to administer and the resulting higher energyprices would harm U.S. competitiveness. Reuter
U.S. OFFICIALS DEFEND OIL RESERVE SALE PLAN Treasury Secretary James Baker andOffice of Management and Budget chief James Miller defended anadministration plan to sell the U.S. Naval Petroleum Reserves.    In response to hostile questioning from a member of theHouse Appropriations Committee, the officials said the plan wasjustified to help bring the fiscal 1988 budget deficit and toget the government out of the oil business.    Miller acknowleged the estimated sale proceeds at 3.3billion dlrs would actually bring down the deficit by about 2.2billion dlrs because of the loss of revenues from the sale ofoil from the reserves.    Miller said the sale price may end up higher.    "We'd sell it to the highest bidder," Miller said.    "If we can get more we'll take it." Reuter
U.S. DISTILLATE, GASOLINE INVENTORIES SEEN LOWER Tonight's American Petroleum Instituteweekly inventory report is expected to show moderate drawdownsin distillates and gasoline stocks for the week ended March 27,analysts and traders said.    They said they expect gasoline stocks to fall three mlnbarrels or less and heating oil inventories to drop between 1.3and four mln barrels.    Some analysts see crude stocks falling by as much as sixmln barrels, while others think they could go up as much as 3.5mln barrels. Crude oil runs are expected to be unchanged fromthe previous week or slightly higher or lower.    For the week ended March 20, the API said gasoline stocksfell 2.7 mln barrels. Mosts analysts expect a modest draw forthe week ended March 27. They said stocks could fall between700,000 and three mln barrels. Some said there is also a chancegasoline stocks will be unchanged.    API said distillate stocks dropped four mln barrels for theweek ended March 20. Analysts and traders generally predict asimilar or smaller depletion for last week. They said stocklevels could drop 1.3 to four mln barrels.    The analysts attribute product stockdraws to seasonalfactors but they said crude direction is harder to call.    Crude inventories rose 8.5 mln barrels in the week endedMarch 20, API said. Analysts are looking for build of between3.5 mln barrels to a six mln barrel draw for the week endedMarch 27.    API reported the amount of refinery capacity utilized upthree pct for the week ended March 20. Analysts saidutilization could have remained unchanged, or rose or fell byless than one pct for the week ended March 27.    Moderate product stockdraws would strengthen the marketslightly, analysts said. But bullish expectations are alreadypartially reflected in today's gains, they added. Reuter
UNION PACIFIC <UNP>CLOSES VENEZUELAN PARTNERSHIP Union Pacific Corp said it has closedthe previously announced 50-50 partnership with Petroleos deVenezuela SA, Venezuela's national oil company, to own a160,000 barrel per day refinery in Corpus Christi, Texas.    Union Pacific said the partnership, called ChamplinRefining Co, will acquire the refining and distribution systemowned and operated by Union Pacific's Champlin Petroleum Cosubsidiary. The Venezuelan company also signed a 25-yearfeedstock agreement with the partnership to supply at least140,000 barrels a day of Venezuelan crude oil and naphtha atmarket related prices. Reuter
DEVON <DIN> REPORTS INCREASE IN RESERVES Devon Resource Investors said asof January one, its estimated proven reserves increasedby 443,000 net equivalent barrels to 32.4 billion cubic feet ofnatural gas and 660,000 barrels of oil, compared with 29.5 bcfof gas and 700,500 barrels of oil as of Jan one, 1986.    Devon said that its estimated future net revenuesattributable to reserves is about 58 mln dlrs with a presentvalue, discounted at 10 pct, of 38 mln dlrs.    It also said that it expects to have sufficient cash flowto cover its annual payout of 60 ct per unit and expand itsdrilling budget in 1987. Reuter
IMPERIAL OIL <IMO.A> IN TALKS WITH SUPPLIERS Imperial Oil Ltd, 70 pct-owned by ExxonCorp <XON>, is negotiating with it major crude oil suppliersconcerning the effects of a trial deregulation of Alberta'sshut-in crude oil production, scheduled to be implemented onJune 1, a company spokesman said.    "From our point of view, it's a question of entering intonegotiations or discussions to make appropriate changes tocontracts to reflect the changes that are going to take placeon June 1," spokesman John Cote told Reuters in reply to aquery.    Commenting on published reports that Imperial had suspendedits oil supply contracts, Cote said: "It's not a question ofcancelling or suspending any of the agreements at this point."    On June 1, Alberta's Energy Resources Conservation Boardwill lift its crude oil marketing prorationing system,regulating shut-in light and medium crude production, on atrial basis to the end of 1987.    Under the new system, producers and refiners will beallowed to negotiate volumes of shut-in oil to be deliveredunder purchase contracts.    Shut-in crude is the surplus between the total amount ofoil being produced and the amount being purchased by refiners.    "We have talked to a number of our major suppliers, andwe've discussed the upcoming change with them, but nothing hasbeen finalized," Imperial's manager of western crude supply GaryStrong said.    Under Alberta's trial system, Imperial wants to match areasonable supply of crude against the company's forecastdemand for its refineries, Strong said.    "We have to know what they have and how that relates to whatwe need in total," he said.    Strong said figures on the amount of crude productionImperial purchases from outside suppliers were not immediatelyavailable. Reuter
API SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS OFF 2.52 MLN BBLS, GASOLINE OFF 260,000, CRUDE OFF  Shr loss 1.82 dlrs vs loss 16 cts    Net loss 2,285,000 vs loss 264,000    Revs 23.0 mln vs 14.6 mln    Year    Shr loss 1.59 dlrs vs profit seven cts    Net loss 2,467,000 vs profit 112,000    Revs 77.3 mln vs 75.8 mln    NOTE: Includes loss of 1.1 mln dlrs or 70 cts/shr fromasset writedowns and cost reductions. Reuter
OIL PRICES SAID NOW BASED ON FUTURES PRICE Energy futures now set thestandard for oil pricing, said Arnold Safer, president of TheEnergy Futures Group Inc, a consulting firm.     "Petroleum futures trading at the New York MercantileExchange literally set spot market prices in the U.S.," hesaid, adding that some oil products sellers now offer contractsbased on a daily average of NYMEX prices.     He also said that petroleum futures are a major market foroil companies as well as for commodity traders. His remarkswere made at the National Petroleum Refiners Association. Reuter
STANDARD OIL RAISES ALASKA NORTH SLOPE BY 1.50 DLRS, effective A The International Monetary Fundpredicts that the industrial world will grow a sluggish 2.5 pctin 1987, a sharp drop from the more than three pct forecast sixmonths ago, monetary sources said.    The forecasts, prepared by the IMF staff, will form thebasis of a debate on economic policy coordination by officialsof top industrial nations at high-level meetings next week.    The sources said the IMF predicts an expansion of just 2.5pct in the U.S., shaving a full one point off its original 1987forecast, released last fall.    The figures will be discussed by the IMF's executive boardbefore going to the IMF's policy-making Interim Committee herenext week and may be subject to slight revision, they said.    The Reagan administration has forecast 3.2 pct U.S.economic growth this year while more pessimistic Fed officialsare predicting 2.5 to three pct.    The sources said the IMF also predicts growth of around 2.5 pct in West Germany, and 2.8 pct in Japan.    Washington has extracted promises from both West Germanyand Japan that they will take measures to bolster theirdomestic economic growth, to help reduce the massive gapbetween their huge trade surpluses and the record Americantrade deficit.    Poor economic growth figures in these two nations and theU.S. are likely to do little to reassure currency markets.    In recent days, the dollar has come under heavy sellingpressure as markets have grown cynical that Bonn and Tokyo willtake early action.    With no economic stimulus in sight, financial markets havereduced the dollar's value to levels that are more likely tobalance U.S. trade, monetary analysts say.    Monetary sources also said the IMF forecasts overall growthin developing nations of around three pct this year, withdeveloping countries in the western hemisphere -- theCaribbean, Central and South America -- expanding 3.3 pct.    In its recent annual report, the Inter-American DevelopmentBank said Latin American nations need to expand between fourand five pct this year to service their 382 billion dlrs offoreign debt.    Non-oil exporting Third World nations should achieve anexpansion of around four per cent while oil exporting nationswill average almost no growth at all, the sources said.    Also short of the mark is the level of industrial countrygrowth. Western officials maintain the industrial world needsto expand at least three per cent annually -- against thisyear's initial IMF prediction of 2.5 pct -- in order to supportthe export drive of debtor nations.    Exports provide the indebted world, which owes westerncreditors some 900 billion dlrs, with its principal source offoreign exchange for debt repayments.    In other forecasts, the IMF put overall global growth atabout 2.8 pct and output in the seven leading industrialnations at around 2.5 pct.    The seven -- the United States, Japan, West Germany,Britain, France, Italy and Canada -- have become the main forumfor coordination of medium-term economic policies in theindustrial world. The prediction for the seven is also around2.5 pct growth in 1987.    The Fund put Canadian growth at about 2.7 pct, the Frenchexpansion at 2.9 pct and Britain at 2.8 pct.    The figures will be discussed as part of an overall debateon the World Economic Outlook and the U.S. debt strategy by theInterim Committee.    Those talks are one of several meetings between topeconomic officials of industrial and developing nations duringthe semi-annual meetings of the IMF and the World Bank. Reuter
MOBIL RAISES WEST COAST CRUDE PRICES BETWEEN ONE The Energy Department issued aninvitation for site proposals from states or others for its 4.4billion dlr Super Conducting Supercollider atom smasher.    Department officials said there is expected to be toughcompetition for the planned facility, which is being considereda major scientific plum for the winning community.    The department said proposals must be in by August three,under guidelines published in the Federal Register, includingthe provision of 16,000 acres of land without charge.    Among the states already waging campaigns are California,Colorado, Illinois, Ohio, Texas, Utah and Washington.    A "preferred" site will be selected by July 1988 and thefinal site decision made in January 1989.    Congress has not yet appropriated money for the project,but if it accepts President Reagan's plan, construction wouldbegin later in 1989 at a spending rate of about 600 mln dlrs ayear.    The project is expected to be completed in seven years.    Department officials said the Supercollider would help manunderstand the fundamental nature of matter and energy. reuter
U.S. HOUSE PANEL EXTENDS EEP, URGES USSR OFFER The U.S. House Agriculture Committeeapproved proposals to extend the life of the Export EnhancementProgram, EEP, through fiscal 1990 and urged the Reaganadministration offer EEP wheat to the Soviet Union.    The proposals were approved as amendments to acomprehensive trade bill moving through Congress this year.    In addition to the amendments on EEP, the committeeapproved several proposals which could restrict imports oflamb, casein, sugar-containing products and tobacco. Thoseamendments affecting imports face an uncertain future becausethe House Ways and Means Committee, which has overalljurisdiction over trade legislation, will oppose them,Congressional sources said.    The effect of the EEP amendments would be to extend thelife of the program five years through fiscal 1990 rather thanthe current three years through fiscal 1988.    The amendments, offered by Rep. Dan Glickman, D-Kan., alsowould increase funding for the program to 2.5 billion dlrs from1.5 billion now.    Furthermore, the committee passed an amendment offered byRep. Glickman which instructs the U.S. Agriculture Departmentto value EEP bonus commodities at market value, not acquisitionvalue. Glickman said the change would make the program 30 pctless expensive to operate.    The provision on EEP wheat to the Soviet Union, offered byRep. Bob Smith, R-Ore., does not require the administrationmake an offer, but urges such action.    The committee approved an amendment, offered by Rep. GlennEnglish, D-Okla., requiring the Secretary of Agriculture tobegin discussions with other major grain producing countriesaimed at jointly reducing world grain production.    Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter yesterday opposed theamendment, saying such commodity agreements do not work.    Among the host of amendments to restrict imports approvedby the panel, the most significant would require quotas onimports of goods containing more than 25 pct of a bulk farmproduct that is subject to U.S. quotas. The amendment, offeredby Rep. Arlan Stangeland, R-Minn., is aimed primarily atcurbing imports from Canada of products containing sugar andforeign foods containing dairy products. It also may affectpeanut, cotton and tobacco imports, Committee sources said.    Another amendment would place a quota on U.S. imports ofcasein, a dairy product shipped to the U.S. primarily by NewZealand and Ireland.    The panel also voted to apply to lamb imports the samecountercyclical import quota law which is operating for U.S.beef imports.    Other miscellaneous amendments included:    -- Urging the administration consider retaliating againstJapan and South Korea if those countries do not removerestrictions on beef imports.    -- Boosting the amount of U.S. grain which must be shippedeach year under a food aid program called Section 416 to800,000 tonnes from 500,000 tonnes now.    -- Requiring the Agriculture Secretary conduct a study ofthe Canadian Wheat Board import licensing system for wheat todetermine if it is a non-tariff trade barrier.    -- Requiring the Agriculture Secretary reimburse theNational Corn Growers Association up to 500,000 dlrs for thecosts of defending the U.S. feedgrains program against aCanadian countervailing duty case this year.    -- Urging the administration oppose the Canadian decisionto apply a duty on U.S. corn imports, and a proposal by theEuropean Community to apply a vegetable oils tax.    -- USDA conduct a study of the findings of a NationalCommission on Agricultural Export Policy, which recommended areorganization of USDA's trade policy apparatus. Reuter
NP ENERGY <NPEEQ> SAYS TRUSTEE APPOINTED NP Energy Corp said the U.S.Bankruptcy Court has indicated it will appoint a trustee tooversee the company's Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings.    It said it hopes the appointment will thwart "hostile"actions being pursued by two unsecured creditors to whoseclaims the company objects.    NP further said the Nielsen 1-20 well in Duchesne County,Utah, has tested 300 barrels of oil per day.  NP owns a 61 pctworking interest. Reuter
MADRID METRO HALTED AS SPANISH STRIKES SPREAD An estimated 1.2 mln metro users inMadrid were stranded today as striking railway workers haltedthe underground transport system, industry sources said. Thestrikers joined coal miners, steel and oil refinery workers inSpain's latest wave of stoppages over wage demands.    Some 10,000 pitmen in the northern province of Leon enteredthe second day of an indefinite stoppage to demand wage risesand a five-day working week, the sources said.    Oil refinery workers picketed the state-owned EmpresaNacional de Petroleo SA (EMP) to prevent fuel lorries leavingthe company's largest plant in Puertollano, central Spain.    Paramilitary police were guarding steel mills at Reinosa,in northern Spain, from the daily protests against planned jobcuts. A local government official said the police force wouldremain in place until tempers had cooled down.    More than 60 people were injured in pitched battles betweenpolice and steel foundry workers in Reinosa last month. REUTER
BRAZIL TO EXPORT POULTRY, MEAT TO IRAQ FOR OIL Brazil will export 6,000 tonnesof poultry and 10,000 tonnes of frozen meat to Iraq in exchangefor oil, Petrobras Commercial Director Carlos Sant'Anna said.    Brazil has a barter deal with Iraq and currently imports215,000 barrels per day of oil, of which 170,000 bpd are paidfor with exports of Brazilian goods to that country. Reuter
WORLD ENERGY OFFICIAL OPPOSES U.S OIL IMPORT FEE Helga Steeg, executive director ofthe International Energy Agency, said a U.S. oil import feewould disrupt world markets and could prompt trade retaliationagainst the United States.    She told the U.S. chapter of the World Energy Conference she believed "an oil import fee would be difficult to operate,would generate unacceptable economic costs and that it wouldgravely hamper and distort international trade in energy."    Steeg also said it would violate the General Agreement onTariffs and Trade (GATT) by imposing a discriminatory tariff,permitting retaliation by oil exporting countries.    Steeg praised President Reagan's opposition to a tax, whichwould be aimed at helping the U.S. oil industry. Reuter
AMOCO <AN> SEES 1ST QTR NET TOPPING 4TH QTR Amoco Corp first quarter profits areexpected to exceed the 165 mln dlrs, or 65 cts per share,reported for 1986's fourth quarter, chairman Richard Morrowsaid.    Speaking to reporters after a security analyst meeting, hesaid the gain was expected because of higher oil and gasprices, but declined to compare his expectations with the 331mln dlrs, or 1.28 dlrs per share, the company earned in 1986'sfirst quarter.    Earlier, Morrow told the analysts that Amoco's firstquarter refining and marketing results "will look pretty poor,"because of low margins in January and February. The marginsbegan to improve last month and look pretty good now, he added.    Morrow said he expects oil product margins to remain goodfor the rest of the year, "but it remains to be seen if theywill match 1986 levels." The Amoco chairman said he expectscrude oil prices to remain in the 17 to 20 dlr barrel range forthe rest of 1988 based on his belief that OPEC's agreement willhold.    Morrow said his best estimate for 1989 crude oil prices is21 dlrs per barrel, adding he believes this price level wouldresult in a 40 pct increase in oil company explorationspending.    President H. Lawrance Fuller told the analysts Amocoreduced its estimates of worldwide oil and gas reserves by atotal of 201 mln equivalent barrels last year because of a dropin oil and gas prices.    Noting the Securities and Exchange Commission requires thatreserves be estimated on the assumption that year-end priceswill remain fixed for the life of the properties, he said thedrop in oil prices to 16 dlrs a barrel at the end of 1986 from27 dlrs a year earlier forced the company to reduce its reserveestimate by four pct.    Fuller said Amoco expects its U.S. oil and natural gasliquids production to decline about five pct this year fromlast year's 121 mln barrels because of drilling deferrals madelast year when oil prices were falling.    He said the full impact of the deferrals was off-set by thepurchase of properties which will add about 5,000 barrels perday to the company's 1987 U.S. production.    Fuller said U.S. refining capacity is expected to beincreasingly strained by the rising demand for lead-freegasoline, especially the higher octane grades.    He said expected federal regulations on gasoline vaporpressure will further tighten the industry's gasolineproduction capacity. Reuter
SUN <SUN> IN NORTH DAKOTA OIL FIND Sun Co Inc said the O.M. Steel FederalNumber One well in Williams County, N.D., flowed 660 barrels ofoil and 581,000 cubic feet of natural gas per day through a13/64 inch choke from depths of 13,188 to 13,204 feet.    Sun said it has a 50 pct interest and Comdisco ResourcesInc the remainder.  An offset well is under consideration, it said. Reuter
CLOSURE OF BP SWEDEN REFINERY FORECAST A Swedish Finance Ministry committeeforecast that British Petroleum Plc <BP.L> may have to closeits refinery in Gothenburg because of an anticipated worseningof the Swedish petroleum industry's competitiveness.    It said in a report that the future of the Swedish refiningbusiness was bleak due to the steady drop in domestic oilconsumption since the mid-1970s, a possible tightening of ruleson sulphur content and competition from Norway's Mongstadfacility of <Den Norske Stats Olieselskab> (Statoil) <STAT.OL>when its expansion is completed in the 1990s.    The committee said the BP refinery, which lacks ade-sulphurisation plant, was likely to be closed or sold unlesscostly investments were made to enhance the facility's capacityto refine a broader range of products.    But the committee noted that capacity utilisation had inrecent years been above that of the European refining industryon average. The BP plant, in which Sweden's state-owned <OKPetroleum AB> has a 22 pct, started up in 1967 and has anannual capacity of 4.7 mln tonnes.    There was nobody at British Petroleum immediately availablefor comment.
NORSK HYDRO, SAGA SEEK DRILLING RIGHTS IN GABON Norwegian oil companies Norsk Hydro A/S<NHY.OL> and Saga Petroleum A/S <SAGO.OL> said they haveapplied for offshore exploration drilling licenses in Gabon onAfrica's west coast.    Saga Petroleum said it has applied for a 35 pct share andoperatorship on one block, adding Finnish oil company Neste<NEOY.HE>(25 pct), Spain's Hispanoil (25 pct), and the WorldBank's International Finance Corporation (IFS) (15 pct) havejoined Saga to fill remaining shares in the application.    Saga spokesman Roy Halvorsen told Reuters he expectedGabonese officials would reply to the application by Easter.    Halvorsen said this is the first time Saga has applied tooperate on OPEC-member Gabon's continental shelf, adding thatItalian oil company Agip is heading a group of applicants in aseparate bid for the same license.    Norsk Hydro has also applied for an undisclosed share in asingle exploration license in which U.S. Oil company Tennecohas already been assigned operatorship, company spokesmanBjoern Tretvoll said. REUTER
BP SAYS NO PLANS TO CLOSE SWEDISH REFINERY The British Petroleum Co Plc <BP.L> saidit had no plans to close its refinery in Gothenburg, despiteforecasts by a Swedish finance ministry committee that it mightbe planning such a move.    The committee said the refinery's future looked bleakbecause the Swedish petroleum industry's competitiveness wasexpected to worsen unless it invested, and because of theeffects of a possible tightening of rules on sulphur content.    But BP said the unit, in which Sweden's <OK Petroleum AB>has a 22 pct stake, had performed well both technically andfinancially up to and including the first quarter of 1987.    Current restrictions on sulphur emissions and known futureplans for both Sweden and export markets did not cause it anyserious problems, it said in a statement.    The refinery started up in 1967 and has an annual capacityof 4.7 mln tonnes. REUTER
IRAQ SAYS ITS FORCES SINK THREE IRANIAN VESSELS Iraq said its forces sank three Iranianboats which tried to approach its disused deep water oilterminal in the northern Gulf today.    A military spokesman, quoted by the official Iraqi newsagency, said other Iranian boats fled. He did not identify thevessels.    Iraq's major oil outlets in the northern Gulf were closedshortly after the war with Iran started in late 1980. Reuter
IRAQ SAYS ITS FORCES SINK THREE IRANIAN VESSELS Iraq said its forces sank three Iranianboats that tried to approach its disused deep water oilterminal in the northern Gulf today.    A military spokesman, quoted by the official Iraqi newsagency, said other Iranian boats fled. He did not identify thevessels.    Iraq's major oil outlets in the northern Gulf were closedshortly after the war with Iran started in late 1980. Reuter
BRAZIL TO BUY 30,000 BPD OF KUWAITI OIL Brazil will import 30,000 barrelsper day of crude oil from Kuwait, a spokesman for the state oilcompany Petrobras said.    He said that, unlike Saudi Arabia, Kuwait did not imposeany conditions on Brazil.    Last month, Petrobras cancelled a 40-mln dlr oil purchasefrom Saudi Arabia after the Saudis refused to accept creditguarantees from the official Bank of Brazil.    The Saudis eventually lifted the condition and Brazildecided to reconfirm the purchase.    Brazil currently consumes 1.1 mln barrels of oil per day. Reuter
TEXAS PETROLEUM ACQUIRES OIL AND GAS PROPERTIES Texas Petroleum Corp said it issued 14.4mln shares of restricted common stock in exchange for oil andgas properties and joint ventures located in the U.S. andoverseas.    The properties were acquired from <North American Oil andGas Corp> and Texas Petroleum Corp in Canada, the company said.It added the acquisitions were the first step toward creatingan oil and gas exploration and development enterprise. Reuter
CANADA OIL INDUSTRY SET FOR RECOVERY - ANALYSTS Firmer crude oil prices, government aidpackages and corporate spending cuts will help Canada's oilindustry recover from last year sharp downturn, industryanalysts said.    They said there will be significant earnings gains in 1987compared to last year's dismal results when oil prices droppedabout 50 pct.    On Canada's stock exchanges, energy shares have soared totheir highest levels since 1983, with many issues trading atrecord highs.    "This is reflecting a tremendous amount of optimism on thepart of the investment community that the outlook for theindustry for the future is extremely attractive," Peters and CoLtd oil analyst Wilf Gobert said.    Financial statements from Canada's major oil companies,culminating with Dome Petroleum Ltd's 2.20 billion Canadian dlr1986 loss reported this week, painted a bleak picture of lastyear's results, analysts said.    "But the financial statements are a snap shot and arecording of history. The stock market is the indication of thefuture," Gobert commented.    The Toronto Stock Exchange's oil and gas index of 41companies is up to 4065.4 so far in trading today from 3053.15at the end of 1986.    Among Canada's largest oil companies, class A shares ofImperial Oil Ltd <IMO.A>, 70 pct owned by Exxon Corp <XON>, istrading at 71, up from a 52-week low of 34-3/4.    Shell Canada Ltd, 72 pct owned by Royal Dutch/Shell Group,is at 40-1/2, up from a low during the last year of 18-3/4.Texaco Canada Inc <TXC>, 78 pct owned by Texaco Inc <TX>, isat 34-7/8, up from a low of 24-1/2.    Levesque Beaubien Inc oil analyst Robert Plexman forecastsoperating profit for 10 of Canada's largest oil and gascompanies will rise 37 pct in 1987 to about 1.44 billion dlrsand operating cash flow will increase 12 pct to 3.24 billiondlrs, based on an average oil price for the year of 16.50 U.S.dlrs a barrel. "However, if prices hold about 18 U.S. dlrs abarrel...1987 net operating income could show a 69 pct increasewith cash flow 27 pct higher," analyst Plexman said.    "Although it is difficult to forecast the extent of theprofit improvement this year, the gain should be significant,"he added.    Those improvements follow a sharp downturn in 1986, whenoperating income for the ten companies dropped 47 pct to 1.05billion dlrs and operating cash flow fell 22 pct to 2.90billion dlrs.    But one industry source doesn't think oil prices will holdrecent gains and more government assistance is needed.    Canadian Petroleum Association technical director HansMaciej sees industry cash flow falling another 10 pct in 1987,after dipping about 60 pct last year. Maciej said he sees crudeoil supply outweighing demand and doesn't believe a recent OPECproduction accord will continue to support prices.    However, several companies share the optimistic industryoutlook expressed by a majority of analysts.    Shell Canada and <Norcen Energy Resources Ltd> forecastimproved 1987 earnings in their annual reports issued thisweek, assuming oil prices remain at or above 1986 levels.    "The industry's outlook for 1987 is positive, but notrobust," Texaco Canada said in its annual report.    "While oil prices have strengthened somewhat and there isgood reason to believe that the general level is sustainable,continued volatility is likely," Texaco Canada added.    In the face of short-term uncertainty, many companies havepared 1987 spending plans from last year's lower levels,deferring most frontier exploration work.    "The industry is becoming very selective in investments,very conservative and cautious, which is not unexpected,"Canadian Petroleum Association's Maciej said.    Federal and Alberta goverment aid measures helped cushionthe industry downturn in 1986 and are improving 1987 results.    The most significant help came last September when thefederal government lifted the 10 pct Petroleum Gas Revenue Tax(PGRT) 28 months earlier then planned.    Analysts estimate the tax relief will save larger oilcompanies about 1.50 billion dlrs by the end of 1988.    The PGRT cut helped brake the steep profit and cash flowdecline in 1986 for many oil companies and prevented furtherexploration spending cuts, analysts said.    "For a number of companies, the PGRT cut was absolutelynecessary to even maintain the kind of reduced investments thatwere made, otherwise the reduction would have been considerablymore," Maciej said. Reuter
PETROBRAS SEES RAISING EXPORT OF FUEL IN 1987 Brazil's state oil companyPetrobras is pledging to export 4.6 mln cubic meters of fuel,or 28.9 mln barrels in 1987, a company spokesman said.    He said that represents a total sale worth 600 mln dlrs.The volume is 27 pct higher over 1986 sales, which totalled 3.6mln cubic meters, or 22.6 mln barrels.    The United States, Africa and Latin American are Brazil'smain fuel buyers, the spokesman said. Reuter
COLOMBIA'S MAIN OIL PIPELINE ATTACKED State-run oil company Ecopetrol saidColombia's main oil pipeline was bombed again and pumping of170,000 barrels per day was suspended.    A spokeswoman for the company said that the early morningdynamite attack was the 31st in the last nine months on theCano Limon-Covenas pipeline, which links Colombia's biggestoilfied at Cravo Norte to the Caribbean.    She said about 2,000 barrels of crude were spilled andcould not indicate when pumping would resume. The attack wasnear Magangue in northeastern Bolivar province.    Ecopetrol is exploiting Cravo Norte in association withOccidental Petroleum Corp <OXY> and Shell Petroleum N.V., aunit of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD> <ST>.    Ecopetrol said in a communique that bombings since lastJuly led to a loss of more than 110,000 barrels of crude, orthe equivalent of 10 mln dlrs. Reuter
BRAZIL MAKES SECOND AMAZON OIL DISCOVERY The Brazilian state oil companyPetrobras has made a second oil discovery in the Amazon region,President Jose Sarney said.    He said the well had an initial flow of 150,000 cubicmeters of gas and 220 barrels of oil per day. It is situated 14kilometres from the first well to be discovered in the regionlast year, which is currently yielding 500,000 cubic meters ofgas and 900 barrels of oil daily.    The wells, the biggest onshore well in the country, are onthe banks of the river Uruc in the Amazon basin 3,600kilometres (2,250 miles) north of Brasilia. Reuter
UAE OIL PRODUCTION DROPS TEN PCT IN MARCH Oil output in the United Arab Emirates(UAE) dropped ten pct in March from February to an average 1.05mln barrels per day (bpd), mainly because of customerresistance to fixed prices of Abu Dhabi oil, industry sourcessaid.    The UAE quota assigned by the Organisation of PetroleumExporting Countries (OPEC) is 902,000 bpd. Traders could buyAbu Dhabi's Umm Shaif crude on the spot market for 17.50 dlrs abarrel yesterday, against the official OPEC price of 17.72dlrs.    The sources said output by Abu Dhabi, the largest UAEproducer, fell to around 700,000 bpd from a range of800,000-820,000 bpd during the preceding four months.    Dubai production slipped to an average 350,000 bpd fromaround 370,000 in February after the emirate declared amid-February output cut to help boost world oil prices, thesources added.    Most of the Abu Dhabi drop came from the offshore Umm Shaifand Upper and Lower Zakum fields as customers found fixedprices too high and cut liftings, the sources said.    The onshore Murban grade was less affected because Japaneseterm buyers saw strategic benefit in maintaining liftings, theyadded. The Japanese firms lift around 120,000 bpd, most of itMurban.    Abu Dhabi considers output from Upper Zakum, which came onstream in 1983, to be test production not included incalculations for complying with the OPEC quota.    Without Upper Zakum, the UAE would be producing roughly itsquota in March, the sources added. REUTER
IEA SEES ONE PCT GROWTH IN 1987 OECD OIL DEMAND Growth in oil consumption in the Westernindustrialised countries is likely to slow to around one pctthis year compared with 2.3 pct in 1986, the InternationalEnergy Agency (IEA) said.    Oil use in the 24 countries of the OECD increased by aroundone pct in first quarter 1987 to 35.9 mln bpd, the IEA said inits Monthly Oil Market Report.    Growth in OECD countries is expected to come primarily fromtransport fuels, as in 1986. But if average consumer prices arehigher than 1986, the rate of growth for these fuels may bebelow last year's 3.6 pct, it said.    The IEA said that assuming crude oil and product pricesstay close to current levels, some destocking by end-users canbe expected. If that happens, natural gas will also regain someof the market share it lost to heavy fuel in 1986, and theremay be slightly less growth in transport fuels.    IEA estimates on April 1 put oil stocks in the OECD area at428 mln tonnes, representing 98 days of forward consumption.This is about the same level as at the begining of the year.    The agency said this flat trend is explained by theprojected seasonal consumption decline in the second quarter ofthe year which offset a reduction in stocks.    It said initial estimates indicate that company stocks fellby 1.2 mln bpd in OECD countries in the first quarter of theyear. This followed a small rise in January of 0.4 mln bpd buta decline of 1.5 mln bpd in February and 2.5 mln bpd in March.    It is possible that final data will show a larger draw,particulary for March, it said. As crude production also fell,there is likely to have also been a decline in non-reportedstocks, particularly at sea, the IEA said.    Company stocks on land in the OECD rose to 326 mln tonneson April 1 against 316 mln on April 1 1986. Governments builtup strategic stocks to 102 mln tonnes against 97 mln in theperiod.    The year-on-year trend of government stock building iscontinuing with year-on-year company stocks also rising, moreor less in line with consumption, after declining for fiveyears, the IEA noted.    Oil stocks on land in the U.S. And Canada were put at 206.6mln tonnes on April 1, down from the 214 mln tonnes on January1 and equivalent to 94 and 98 days of consumption,respectively.    Oil stocks in Western Europe were 147.4 mln tonnes on April1, down from the 154 mln on January 1 but still equivalent to94 days of consumption.    World oil supply fell in the first quarter by about two mlnbpd to 45.2 mln bpd from 47.2 mln bpd in last quarter 1986.    This drop was mostly due to a decline in OPEC crudeproduction to around 15.5 mln bpd in February/March from 16.5mln bpd in January and to the seasonal drop in exports fromcentrally-planned Economies, the IEA said.    Total OPEC crude oil supply was 15.8 mln bpd in the firstquarter, plus 1.4 mln bpd of NGLs, compared with 17.3 mln bpdof crude in the last three months of 1986 and 17.9 mln averagefor the whole of 1986. Supply from non-OPEC countries totalled28 mln bpd, against 28.5 mln bpd in the fourth quarter 1986.    A drop in Saudi Arabian output to a tentatively forecast3.3 mln bpd in March from 3.6 mln bpd in February was thelargest factor behind the OPEC production decline, the IEAsaid.    Saudi Arabia"s Opec-assigned output quota is 4.133 mln bpd. REUTER
IEA FORECASTS SLOWER GROWTH IN OECD OIL DEMAND Growth in oil consumption in the Westernindustrialized countries is likely to slow to around one pctthis year compared with 2.3 pct in 1986, the InternationalEnergy Agency said.    Oil use in the 24 member countries of the Organization forEconomic Cooperation and Development (OECD) increased by aroundone pct in the first quarter of 1987 to 35.9 mln barrels a day,the IEA said in its latest monthly report.    Growth in OECD countries is expected to come primarily fromtransport fuels, as was the case in 1986. But if averageconsumer prices are higher than 1986, the rate of growth forthese fuels may be below last year's 3.6 pct.    The IEA said assuming crude and product prices remain narcurrent levels, some destocking by end-users can be expected.    If that takes place, natural gas will also regain some ofthe market share it lost to heavy fuel in 1986, it said.    IEA estimates on April one put oil stocks held in the OECDarea at 428 mln tonnes, or 98 days of forward consumption. Thisis about the same as at the begining of the year.    The agency said this flat trend is explained by theprojected seasonal consumption decline in the second quarter ofthe year which offset a reduction in stocks.    Company stocks on land in the OECD rose to 326 mln tonneson April one this year compared with 316 mln tonnes in calender1986 while governments also built up their strategic stocks to102 mln tonnes against 97 mln in 1986.    The year-on-year trend of government stock building iscontinuing with company stocks rising, more or less in linewith consumption, after declining for five years, IEA said.    Oil stocks on land in the United States and Canada were putat 206.6 mln tonnes down from the 214 mln tonnes on January oneand equivalent to 94 and 98 days of consumption, respectively.    Oil stocks in Western Europe were 147.4 mln tonnes, downfrom the 154 mln tonnes on January one but still equivalent to94 days of consumption.    The IEA said that initial estimates indicate that companystocks fell by 1.2 mln bpd in OECD countries in the firstquarter of the year. This followed a small rise in January of400,000 bpd but a decline of 1.5 bpd in February and 2.5 bpd inMarch.    And it is possible that final data will show a larger draw,particulary for March, it said.    As crude production also fell, there is likely to have alsobeen a decline in non-reported stocks, particularly at sea, theIEA said.    World oil supply fell through the first quarter by abouttwo bpd to 45.2 bpd from 47.5 bpd in the last quarter of 1986.    This drop was mostly due to a decline in OPEC crudeproduction to around 15.5 bpd in February/March from 16.5 bpdin January and to the seasonal drop in exports from CentrallyPlanned Economies, the IEA said.    Total OPEC oil supply totalled 17.2 bpd in the firstquarter of 1987 compare with 19.3 bpd in the last three monthsof 1986 while supply from non-OPEC countries totalled 28 bpd asagainst 28.2 bpd in the same 1986 period.    A drop in Saudi Arabian output to a tentatively forecast3.3 bpd in march from 3.6 bpd in February was the largestfactor behind the OPEC production decline, the IEA said. Reuter
OIL MARKET LIKELY TO REMAIN STABLE, SUBROTO SAYS Indonesian Energy minister Subroto saidhe was very confident of continued stability in the oil marketbecause of the determination of Opec members to maintain aprice of 18 dlrs a barrel.    "We are very confident that things will continue this way.The short-term outlook is favourable because of the resolutionof Opec to stick to the 18 dlr price," he said at a signingceremony for a new Indonesian production sharing agreement.    He said Opec output continued to remain slightly under itsagreed ceiling of 15.8 mln barrels, and he expected prices tofirm slightly in the third quarter of the year.    He said at Opec's next meeting in Vienna in June, memberswill face the choice of either maintaining present volume andseeing prices rise a bit, or raising the production ceiling sothat members could produce more in the third and fourthquarters of 1987.    He gave no figures for how much he thought volume could beraised without undermining the 18 dlr target, or any indicationof which option he preferred. REUTER
ENIM OIL SIGNS CONTRACT WITH INDONESIA'S PERTAMINA <Enim Oil Co Ltd>, a wholly ownedsubsidiary of <Southern Cross Ltd> of Colorado, signed aproduction sharing contract with Indonesia's state oil companyPertamina to explore for oil in the Lematang block of Sumatra.    It was the second production sharing contract signed byPertamina this year. Three contracts were awarded in 1986.    The agreement, signed at a public ceremony in the presenceof Energy Minister Subroto, calls for the standard oilproduction split of 85-15 pct in Pertamina's favour.    Hong Kong-based Enim Oil is contracted to spend 120 mlndlrs over the next six years, including 10 mln in the first twoyears.    The 1,137 sq km Lematang block is located between two oilproducing sectors of South Sumatra, and Enim officials saidthere is a good chance of getting a high return on investment.    A spokesman said the area, which has not been drilledbefore, was neglected because it is deeper than surroundingblocks. He said new developments in seismic techniques have nowmade seismic survey possible.    The agreement is similar to a production-sharing contractPertamina signed with Occidental Petroleum Corp in February.    Gas produced will be divided 70-30 pct in Pertamina'sfavour with operational costs deducted.    Pertamina can market at least 50 pct of Enim Oil'sproduction share, and Enim must give up 10 pct of its interestin the block to an appointed Indonesian company if it findsoil.    Enim must also set aside 28.57 pct of its crude forrefining in Indonesia if its share exceeds 150,000 barrels aday. REUTER
OIL PRICES SEEN HOLDING STEADY IN SECOND QUARTER Japanese oil traders generally expect oilprices to remain steady through June, when the nextOrganization of Petroleum Exporting Countries' (Opec) meetingis scheduled to take place.    Prices have kept to a narrow trading range for more than amonth, despite coming under considerable pressure in Februaryas Japanese oil companies holding high oil stocks stronglyresist paying official prices, trade sources said.    Despite these attempts, spot crude rose steadily tostabilize around OPEC's 18 dlr a barrel target, they said.    Spot prices fell more than two dlrs during the month,mainly on market assumptions Opec was producing more than its15.8 mln barrel a day (bpd) self-imposed ceiling and memberswould submit to pressure to discount prices, oil traders said.    However, Opec's discipline in holding its price and outputtargets eventually forced many of the buyers back, they said.    Countries such as Qatar, Iran and Iraq refused to bend todemands for lower prices in spite of threats of non-liftingfrom Japanese buyers.    The solidarity of Opec encouraged Qatar to charter vesselsto store its production rather than cut its prices, they said.    Opec's March production was 14.6 mln bpd, 1.2 mln below itsceiling, with Saudi Arabia's output just below 3.0 mln bpdcompared to its Opec quota of 4.133 mln bpd, the Middle EastEconomic Survey estimated.    "Of course there was a little cheating but not enough todestroy the market," an oil trader in Tokyo said.    Opec crudes have been appearing on the spot market atdiscounted prices through barter deals and the swapping ofMiddle East grades for North Sea cargoes, but these trades havenot generated sufficient volume to depress the market, he said.    The current spot values of Middle East grades are only 20to 25 cts below official prices, so resistance to buying crudeunder term contracts in the second quarter is likely to beweaker, traders said.    Indonesia's Minister of Energy and Mines Subroto said todayOPEC faces the choice of either maintaining present outputvolume at 15.8 mln bpd and seeing prices increase slightly, orraising the production ceiling so members can produce more inthe third and fourth quarters of 1987. REUTER
OIL MARKET LIKELY TO REMAIN STABLE, SUBROTO SAYS Indonesian Energy minister Subroto saidhe was very confident of continued stability in the oil marketbecause of the determination of Opec members to maintain aprice of 18 dlrs a barrel.    "We are very confident that things will continue this way.The short-term outlook is favourable because of the resolutionof Opec to stick to the 18 dlr price," he said at a signingceremony for a new Indonesian production sharing agreement.    He said Opec output continued to remain slightly under itsagreed ceiling of 15.8 mln barrels, and he expected prices tofirm slightly in the third quarter of the year.    He said at Opec's next meeting in Vienna in June, memberswill face the choice of either maintaining present volume andseeing prices rise a bit, or raising the production ceiling sothat members could produce more in the third and fourthquarters of 1987.    He gave no figures for how much he thought volume could beraised without undermining the 18 dlr target, or any indicationof which option he preferred. REUTER
IEA SEES ONE PCT GROWTH IN 1987 OECD OIL DEMAND Growth in oil consumption in the Westernindustrialized countries is likely to slow to around one pctthis year compared with 2.3 pct in 1986, the InternationalEnergy Agency (IEA) said.    Oil use in the 24 countries of the OECD increased by aroundone pct in first quarter 1987 to 35.9 mln barrels per day, theIEA said in its Monthly Oil Market Report.    Growth in OECD countries is expected to come primarily fromtransport fuels, as in 1986. But if average consumer prices arehigher than 1986, the rate of growth for these fuels may bebelow last year's 3.6 pct, it said. Reuter
KUWAIT MAY RE-REGISTER GULF TANKERS - NEWSPAPER Kuwait may re-register part of itstanker fleet with foreign flag jurisdictions, including theU.S. And USSR, in an attempt to protect them from Iranianmissile attacks in the Gulf war zone, U.S. Officials werequoted by the New York Times as saying.    The transfers would allow the country of registration toescort Kuwaiti-owned ships in the Gulf. Kuwait had earlierdeclined an offer of U.S. Naval escorts as too public anadmission of its need for protection, they said.    Kuwait is also looking at flagging-out to Europeanregistries, the officials said.    Soviet flag tankers transporting Kuwaiti oil through theGulf may get Soviet escorts, the officials said.    Kuwait had earlier considered having both USSR and U.S.Escorts, but the U.S. Was unwilling to give the Soviet Union anaval role in the region, the newspaper quoted the officials assaying.    Kuwait has backed Iraq in the seven-year war against Iranand its ships have increasingly been the target of Iranianattacks.    The U.S. And Kuwait have been negotiating for over a monthon methods of protecting Kuwaiti ships. REUTER
OCCIDENTAL <OXY> IN BIG PERU HEAVY OIL FIND Occidental Petroleum Corp said theShiviyacu-23 development well on Block 1-AB in the PeruvianAmazon jungle is producing 6,593 barrels of 22 degree gravityoil per day from depths of 9,543 to 9,547 and 9,556 to 9,599feet.    The company said it is drilling a new exploration well onthe block, Southeast Shiviyacu-1, 2.5 miles away. Reuter
KUWAIT ASKS TO USE FOREIGN FLAG TANKERS, U.S SAYS Kuwait has asked at least fourcountries, including the United States, Soviet Union, Britainand China, for temporary use of their flags or tankers toprotect Kuwaiti oil shipments in the troubled Persian Gulf,Reagan Administration officials said.    The officials confirmed a New York Times report that Kuwaitwants to transfer some of its oil tankers to U.S. or Sovietregistration in hopes Iran would be reluctant to launch new"Silkworm" missiles at superpower flags.    The United States has vowed to keep the gulf open tointernational oil traffic and has warned Tehran against usingthe Chinese-made missiles recently installed in Iran near themouth of the gulf.    "They (the Kuwaitis) have also asked Britain, China andpossibly some other European countries to lease tankers tocarry their oil," one of the administration officials, who askednot to be identified, told Reuters.    The United States is considering the request to temporarilytransfer Kuwaiti ships to American registration, but such amove could create insurance and other problems, the officialssaid.    U.S. defense officials told Reuters yesterday that Kuwaithad decided for at least the time being not to accept a U.S.offer to use American warships to escort its tankers in thegulf, where both Iran and Iraq have been attacking shipping. Reuter
COOPERATIVE ENERGY TESTS OIL AT TWO WELLS <Cooperative Energy DevelopmentCorp> said two exploratory oil wells in the Zama area ofAlberta tested 1,020 and 950 barrels a day, and will increasethe company's daily oil production by 30 pct.    The company did not immediately elaborate on totalproduction figures.    The wells, flowing oil from the Keg River formation, willbe constrained to combined production of about 450 barrels aday to optimize reserve recovery, the company said.    Permanent production facilities are being installed and thewells will produce to pipeline by mid-April. Reuter
SUPPLIES, MIDEAST TENSION FUEL GAINS IN OIL Petroleum futures rallied today in amarket that was expecting declines in domestic supplies andbecame further unsettled by escalated Mideast fighting.    Crude oil, gasoline and heating oil all posted gains on theNew York Mercantile Exchange, with crude oil prices matchinglife-of-contract highs. Crude for delivery in May closed 17cents higher at 18.84 dlrs a barrel.    "Crude futures could jump above 19 dlrs a barrel but willnot remain there long if products are not strong," RobertMurphy, account executive at E.F. Hutton, said.    Traders said prices were supported by anticipation that theAmerican Petroleum Institute would report a decline in domesticinventories of petroleum products in a weekly report.    Traders said prices also were supported by an escalation inthe Iran-Iraq war, with the Iranians reportedly launching a newoffensive against Iraqi positions, and Iraq attacking offshoreoil fields and an oil export depot.    Buying by speculators continued to prompt gains in gold andsilver futures on the Commodity Exchange in New York.    Gold prices retreated at midday, but rallied before theclose with support from the silver market, which wasapproaching two-year highs, traders said.    Soybean futures posted strong gains on the Chicago Board ofTrade, while corn and wheat were mostly higher.    Traders said cash sales have been slow in the country, andthe soybean harvest in Brazil has been delayed by rain, whichis limiting supplies.    In addition, the Agriculture Department last week projecteda substantial drop in soybean acreage this year.     Monday'sreport that the USDA inspected 46 mln bushels of corn forexport last week was unexpectedly high and, coupled with a lackof farm sales, provided support for the corn market, traderssaid.    Live hogs and frozen pork bellies rallied on the ChicagoMercantile Exchange, while cattle ended lower.    Live hogs pushed ahead on a lack of supplies because manyfarmers are turning their attention to spring planting ratherthan marketing livestock, traders said, noting that cash saleshave been lighter than expected this week.    The lack of marketing also has supported pork bellies, butprices drifted lower for moderate losses in nearby months asspeculators sold contracts to take profits, traders said.    Cattle prices closed lower but continued to show strengthrelated to tight supplies.    Prices pushed ahead to new contract highs, extending gainspast three-year peaks set Monday, as tight supplies forced meatpackers to bid aggressively for available animals.    However, some traders sold contracts to take profits afterthe extended rally, which has seen the April delivery contractsoar to 69.90 cents a pound from 56 cents a pound at the startof the year.    New York coffee futures closed higher on trade talk Brazilwould not be an aggressive seller near term, analysts said. Reuter
DOLLAR ENDS WITH MODEST LOSSES IN NEW YORK The dollar ended with modest net lossesagainst most major currencies as the market conducted a finalround of position-squaring ahead of tomorrow's crucial Group ofFive and Group of Seven meetings, dealers said.    "The dollar was trendless today. People are waiting to seeif anything new comes from the meetings tomorrow and will thentake it from there," said one dealer at a top European bank.    As a result, generally supportive comments by FederalReserve Chairman Paul Volcker and Japanese Finance MinisterKiichi Miyazawa went largely unheeded.    The dollar closed at 145.60/70 yen, down from 145.85/90.    However, the dollar's yen closing level was comfortablyabove its overseas low of just under 145 yen. Against the mark,the dollar finished at 1.8270/80 marks after falling to 1.8180in Europe and ending at 1.8260/70 here yesterday.    In Congressional testimony this morning, Fed Chairman PaulVolcker harped on his long-held fears about the potentiallycatastrophic fallout from a sharp dollar decline.    He also said the dollar's fall, thus far, should be "largeenough, in a context of a growing world economy and fiscalrestraint in the U.S., to support widespread expectations of anarrowing in the real trade deficit in the period ahead."    The market impact of Volcker's comments was minimal. "Itwas the same old story. Volcker was just fulfilling his role asa defender of the currency," said one trader.    The market was similarly dismissive of Japanese FinanceMinister Kiichi Miyazawa's upbeat appraisal of his hour-longconversation with U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker thisafternoon.    Miyazawa said that they both agreed on the need forcurrency stabilization and that he was satisfied with the rolethe U.S. has played in coordinated international efforts toprop up the dollar since the late February Paris agreement.    "Miyazawa can talk until he's blue in the face. The onlyperson who will make a difference is Baker," said Alan Rose ofFirst Interstate Bank in Los Angeles.    "The key question for the currency market is whether the(Reagan) administration will have a change of view to thedollar. If not, the dollar is going lower," he added.    The dollar's recent tumble to a 40-year low of 144.70 yenwas linked to the market's perception that Washington wasunhappy with the rate of adjustment of world trade imbalancesand that a continued orderly dollar decline was the leastdisruptive way of accelerating the process.    While most analysts do not expect any marked change ofattitude in Washington, they were reluctant to open any freshpositions until later in the week.    "We are reserving judgement for the time being," said DougMadison of Commerzbank Ag.    The tranquility of the dollar market spread to sterlingtrading today. The pound ended unchanged against the dollar at1.6175/85 and edged up to 2.957 marks from 2.955 yesterday.    However, underlying sentiment remains positive after a U.K.opinion poll gave the ruling Conservative party its highestpopularity rating since it was re-elected in 1983.    "Sterling still seems to be on the firm side," said onedealer.    The Canadian currency also retained a generally strongertone, rising to 1.3055/60 to its U.S. counterpart from1.3080/85 yesterday.    According to figures provided by Morgan Guaranty Trust Co,the dollar's trade-weighted value at midday was 5.7 pct belowaverage market rates in 1980-82, compared with 5.5 pctyesterday. Reuter
API SAYS DISTILLATE, GASOLINE STOCKS UP IN WEEK Distillate fuel stocks held inprimary storage rose by 628,000 barrels in the week ended Aprilthree to 106.96 mln barrels from a revised 106.33 mln theprevious week, the American Petroleum Institute said.    In its weekly statistical bulletin, the oil industry tradegroup said gasoline stocks rose 2.29 mln barrels to 247.91 mlnbarrels from a revised 245.62 mln, and crude oil stocks were up8.52 mln barrels to 337.73 mln from a revised 329.21 mln.    It said residual fuel stocks rose 28,000 barrels to 38.25mln from a revised 37.98 mln barrels.    API said refinery runs in the week rose to 12.54 mlnbarrels per day from 12.21 mln and refinery use of operatingcapacity was 80.4 pct, up from 78.3 pct.    Crude oil imports in the week fell to 3.40 mln bpd from arevised 3.60 mln, API added. Reuter
JAPAN TO REVISE LONG-TERM ENERGY DEMAND DOWNWARDS The Ministry of International Trade andIndustry (MITI) will revise its long-term energy supply/demandoutlook by August to meet a forecast downtrend in Japaneseenergy demand, ministry officials said.    MITI is expected to lower the projection for primary energysupplies in the year 2000 to 550 mln kilolitres (kl) from 600mln, they said.    The decision follows the emergence of structural changes inJapanese industry following the rise in the value of the yenand a decline in domestic electric power demand.    MITI is planning to work out a revised energy supply/demandoutlook through deliberations of committee meetings of theAgency of Natural Resources and Energy, the officials said.    They said MITI will also review the breakdown of energysupply sources, including oil, nuclear, coal and natural gas.    Nuclear energy provided the bulk of Japan's electric powerin the fiscal year ended March 31, supplying an estimated 27pct on a kilowatt/hour basis, followed by oil (23 pct) andliquefied natural gas (21 pct), they noted. REUTER
ENERGY/U.S. PETROCHEMICAL INDUSTRY Cheap oil feedstocks, the weakened U.S.dollar and a plant utilization rate approaching 90 pct willpropel the streamlined U.S. petrochemical industry to recordprofits this year, with growth expected through at least 1990,major company executives predicted.    This bullish outlook for chemical manufacturing and anindustrywide move to shed unrelated businesses has prompted GAFCorp <GAF>, privately-held Cain Chemical Inc, and other firmsto aggressively seek acquisitions of petrochemical plants.    Oil companies such as Ashland Oil Inc <ASH>, theKentucky-based oil refiner and marketer, are also shopping formoney-making petrochemical businesses to buy.    "I see us poised at the threshold of a golden period," saidPaul Oreffice, chairman of giant Dow Chemical Co <DOW>, adding,"There's no major plant capacity being added around the worldnow. The whole game is bringing out new products and improvingthe old ones."    Analysts say the chemical industry's biggest customers,automobile manufacturers and home builders that use a lot ofpaints and plastics, are expected to buy quantities this year.    U.S. petrochemical plants are currently operating at about90 pct capacity, reflecting tighter supply that could hikeproduct prices by 30 to 40 pct this year, said John Dosher,managing director of Pace Consultants Inc of Houston. Demandfor some products such as styrene could push profit margins upby as much as 300 pct, he said.    Oreffice, speaking at a meeting of chemical engineers inHouston, said Dow would easily top the 741 mln dlrs it earnedlast year and predicted it would have the best year in itshistory.    In 1985, when oil prices were still above 25 dlrs a barreland chemical exports were adversely affected by the strong U.S.dollar, Dow had profits of 58 mln dlrs. "I believe the entirechemical industry is headed for a record year or close to it,"Oreffice said.    GAF chairman Samuel Heyman estimated that the U.S. chemicalindustry would report a 20 pct gain in profits during 1987.Last year, the domestic industry earned a total of 13 billiondlrs, a 54 pct leap from 1985.    The turn in the fortunes of the once-sickly chemicalindustry has been brought about by a combination of luck andplanning, said Pace's John Dosher.    Dosher said last year's fall in oil prices made feedstocksdramatically cheaper and at the same time the American dollarwas weakening against foreign currencies. That helped boostU.S. chemical exports.    Also helping to bring supply and demand into balance hasbeen the gradual market absorption of the extra chemicalmanufacturing capacity created by Middle Eastern oil producersin the early 1980s.    Finally, virtually all major U.S. chemical manufacturershave embarked on an extensive corporate restructuring programto mothball inefficient plants, trim the payroll and eliminateunrelated businesses. The restructuring touched off a flurry offriendly and hostile takeover attempts.    GAF, which made an unsuccessful attempt in 1985 to acquireUnion Carbide Corp <UK>, recently offered three billion dlrsfor Borg Warner Corp <BOR>, a Chicago manufacturer of plasticsand chemicals. Another industry powerhouse, W.R. Grace <GRA> has divested its retailing, restaurant and fertilizerbusinesses to raise cash for chemical acquisitions.    But some experts worry that the chemical industry may beheaded for trouble if companies continue turning their back onthe manufacturing of staple petrochemical commodities, such asethylene, in favor of more profitable specialty chemicals thatare custom-designed for a small group of buyers.    "Companies like DuPont <DD> and Monsanto Co <MTC> spent thepast two or three years trying to get out of the commoditychemical business in reaction to how badly the market haddeteriorated," Dosher said. "But I think they will eventuallykill the margins on the profitable chemicals in the nichemarket." Some top chemical executives share the concern.    "The challenge for our industry is to keep from gettingcarried away and repeating past mistakes," GAF's Heymancautioned. "The shift from commodity chemicals may beill-advised. Specialty businesses do not stay special long."    Houston-based Cain Chemical, created this month by theSterling investment banking group, believes it can generate 700mln dlrs in annual sales by bucking the industry trend.    Chairman Gordon Cain, who previously led a leveraged buyoutof Dupont's Conoco Inc's chemical business, has spent 1.1billion dlrs since January to buy seven petrochemical plantsalong the Texas Gulf Coast.    The plants produce only basic commodity petrochemicals thatare the building blocks of specialty products.    "This kind of commodity chemical business will never be aglamorous, high-margin business," Cain said, adding that demandis expected to grow by about three pct annually.    Garo Armen, an analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds, saidchemical makers have also benefitted by increasing demand forplastics as prices become more competitive with aluminum, woodand steel products. Armen estimated the upturn in the chemicalbusiness could last as long as four or five years, provided theU.S. economy continues its modest rate of growth. Reuter
UNION TEXAS OIL RESERVES DROPPED IN 1986 Union Texas Petroleum said its worldwideproved reserves fell to 511 mln barrels of oil equivalent atthe end of 1986 from 555 mln barrels reported in 1985.    In its newly released annual report, Union Texas said itreplaced about 71 pct of its production of 56 mln barrels ofoil equivalent last year after taking into account the sale of27 mln barrels of U.S. reserves.    Union Texas, the nation's largest independent oil and gasproducer based on revenues, is a privately-held company ownedby Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Co and Allied-Signal Inc <ALD>.    The Houston-based company said it lost 57.5 mln dlrs on1.26 billion dlrs in sales last year, compared to profits of165 mln dlrs on 2.04 billion dlrs in sales in 1985.    Union Texas said it received an average of 13.35 dlrs perbarrel for its international oil production and 2.99 dlrs permcf for its foreign natural gas sales. The majority of thecompany's total energy production is in the United Kingdom,Indonesia and Pakistan.    In the United States, Union Texas said it completedevaluation work on its oil find in Alaska's Colville Deltaarea.    "Although significant oil reserves were confirmed,development of this discovery will not be economical withoutsubstantially higher prices," the company said.    Union Texas said it planned to spend about 42 mln dlrs overthe next two years to develop its Eugene Island Block 371 inthe Gulf of Mexico.    In 1987, the company said it budgeted 178 mln dlrs forcapital spending, less than half of the amount spent in 1985and down from 199 mln dlrs budgeted last year. Union Texas alsosaid it would seek acquisitions of oil and gas properties aswell as petrochemical-related businesses. Reuter
U.S.SENATE LIFTS SOME BANS ON NATURAL GAS The Senate unanimously approvedlegislation to lift a ban on new construction of naturalgas-fired power plants and other large industrial gas-burningplants.    The bill, sponsored by Senate Energy Committee chairmanBennett Johnston, also repeals mandatory incremental pricing ofnatural gas which was designed to protect residential consumersfrom major price increases by forcing some industrial users topay higher than market prices.    "This legislation will open up new natural gas markets," theLousiana Democrat said.    The gas restrictions were enacted in 1978 in response to ashortage of natural gas and predictions of higher prices.    "Now both oil and gas prices are severely depressed,"Johnston said.    In a compromise with coal producers, the bill requires newbaseload electric powerplants be designed to accomodatemodifications necessary to burning coal or another alternatefuel. Reuter
EIA SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS UNCHANGED, GASOLINE OFF 200,000, CRUDE UP The following proposed securitiesofferings were filed recently with the Securities and ExchangeCommission:    First Interstate Bancorp <I> - Shelf offering of up to 112mln dlrs of debt securities, including notes and debentures, onterms to be determined at the time of the sale.    Pacificorp Credit Inc, subsidiary of Pacificorp <PPW> -Shelf offering of up to 250 mln dlrs of debt securities,including notes and debentures, at prices and on terms to bedetermined at the time of the sale. Reuter
EIA SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS UNCHANGED IN WEEK Distillate fuel stocks held inprimary storage were unchanged in the week ended April three at106.9 mln barrels, the Energy Information Administration (EIA)said.    In its weekly petroleum status report, the Department ofEnergy agency said gasoline stocks were off 200,000 barrels inthe week to 248.1 mln barrels and refinery crude oil stocksrose 6.3 mln barrels to 335.8 mln.    The EIA said residual fuel stocks fell 100,000 barrels to38.1 mln barrels and crude oil stocks in the StrategicPetroleum Reserve (SPR) rose 1.1 mln barrels to 520.0 mln.    The total of all crude, refined product and SPR stocks rose9.4 mln barrels to 1,561.1, it said. Reuter
RECENT U.S. OIL DEMAND OFF 2.6 PCT FROM YEAR AGO U.S. oil demand as measured byproducts supplied fell 2.6 pct in the four weeks ended Aprilthree to 15.73 mln barrels per day (bpd) from 16.16 mln in thesame period a year ago, the Energy Information Administration(EIA) said.    In its weekly petroleum status report, the EnergyDepartment agency said distillate demand was off 7.9 pct in theperiod to 2.90 mln bpd from 3.15 mln a year earlier.    Gasoline demand averaged 6.76 mln bpd, off 3.1 pct from6.98 mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.15 mlnbpd, off 16.9 pct from 1.39 mln, the EIA said.    So far this year, distillate demand fell 2.3 pct to 3.20mln bpd from 3.28 mln in 1986, gasoline demand was 6.63 mlnbpd, off 0.3 pct from 6.65 mln, and residual fuel demand fell4.9 pct to 1.35 mln bpd from 1.42 mln, the EIA said.    Year-to-date domestic crude output was estimated at 8.40mln bpd, off 7.6 pct from 9.09 mln a year ago, while grosscrude imports averaged 3.92 mln bpd, up 27.1 pct from 3.08 mln,it said. Reuter
U.S. ENERGY FUTURES CALLED UNCHANGED TO LOWER Traders expect U.S. energy futures willopen unchanged to slightly lower this morning with support nearyesterday's lows.    Crude futures are called unchanged to five cts weakertracking unchanged domestic crudes and North Sea Brent crude,which traded at 18.01 dlrs a barrel today, about ten cts belowyesterday's New York close.    Traders said the supply squeeze in 15-day forward AprilBrent appears to have ended.    Product futures, which fell sharply yesterday, are due toopen unchanged to 0.25 cent lower, traders said.    Traders expect some followthrough selling in products butsaid gasoil futures in London will probably lend some supportsince they are trading as expected. May gasoil futures were off1.50 dlrs a tonne this morning while June was down 1.25 dlrs inthin conditions. Reuter
LA LAND <LLX>,DU PONT <DD>GET EXPLORATION TRACTS Louisiana Land and Exploration Cosaid it, Du Pont Co's Conoco Inc subsidiary and <Oranje-NassauEnergie B.V.> have been offered four exploration blocksoffshore The Netherlands.    Louisiana Land said Blocks Q4a, E12c and E15b were offeredto the group in which Conoco has a 67.5 pct interest, LouisianaLand 20 pct and Orange-Nassau 12.5 pct, while this group alongwith a consortium headed by Pennzoil Co <PZL> were offeredBlock Q5c. The offers were the result of applications submittedto the Ministry of Economic Affairs for the Netherlands SixthOffshore Licensing Round.    Louisiana Land said the Conoco group intends to provide aformal acceptance of the blocks with plans to start explorationthis year.    The company also said the two Q blocks immediately offsetother offshore blocks on which hydrocarbons have been found incommercial quantities. Reuter
NERCI <NER> UNIT CLOSES OIL/GAS ACQUISITION Nerco Inc said its oil and gasunit closed the acquisition of a 47 pct working interest in theBroussard oil and gas field from <Davis Oil Co> for about 22.5mln dlrs in cash.    Nerco said it estimates the field's total proved developedand undeveloped reserves at 24 billion cubic feet, orequivalent, of natural gas, which more than doubles thecompany's previous reserves.    The field is located in southern Louisiana. Reuter
WINTERHALTER <WNTLC> HOLDERS OKAY TAKEOVER Winterhalter Inc said itsshareholders approved the 525,000 dlr acquisition ofWinterhalter by Interface Systems Inc <INTF>.    The acquisition would be for 15 cts per Winterhalter share. Reuter
ECUADOR CRUDE OIL OUTPUT TO RESUME NEXT MONTH Ecuador is due to resume limited crude oiloutput on May 8 when a new 43 km pipeline to neighbouringColombia should be finished, an energy ministry spokesman said.    Oil output was halted on March 5 by an earthquake whichdamaged 50 km of the main pipeline linking jungle oilfields atLago Agrio to the Ecuadorean port of Balao on the Pacific.    About 13 km of the new link, capable of carrying some50,000 barrels per day (bpd), has been built, he said.    Ecuador pumped 245,000 to 250,000 bpd before theearthquake.    The new link will connect Lago Agrio to Puerto Colon inColombia, the starting point of Columbia's pipeline to thePacific ocean port of Temuco.    The government estimates it will take about four moremonths to repair the Lago Agrio to Balao pipeline and returnoutput to normal levels, the spokesman said. REUTER
SOVIET TANKERS SET TO CARRY KUWAITI OIL Kuwait has agreed to charter tankersfrom the Soviet Union in a move to protect its oil exportsthrough the Mideast Gulf, diplomatic sources said.    They said the agreement followed months of talks with theSoviet Union and the U.S. On ways to secure its oil exportsafter Iran started to attack Kuwaiti-connected vessels inretaliation for Kuwait's backing for Iran's war enemy Iraq.    Diplomats said they expect three Soviet tankers initiallyto reinforce other flags already supporting Kuwait's 22-tankerfleet.    The diplomats said they knew of no deal for Moscow toprovide a naval escort for its own vessels, but "the idea ofprotection is implicit," one said.    They said Soviet cargo ships bound for Kuwait in the pastto unload arms and materiel for road delivery to Iraq wereknown to have sailed under escort. So far, none of the Sovietships are known to have been attacked by Iran. Diplomats saidthey expected the chartered Soviet tankers to sail betweenKuwait and Khor Fakkan on the United Arab Emirates (UAE) coasta short way outside the Strait of Hormuz at the mouth of theGulf. Reuter
TRITON <OIL> SAYS PARIS BASIN RESERVES UP 39 PCT Triton Energy Corp said proven reservesof the Villespedue oil field in France's Paris Basin wereestimated at a total of 67.5 mln barrels on March one, up 39pct from 48.7 mln barrels on May 31, 1986.    Triton said its 60 pct owned <Triton Europe Plc> subsidiaryhas a 50 pct interest in the field which is located 50 mileseast of Paris. The other 50 pct is held by <Total ExplorationS.A.>, the field's operator. Reuter
STANDARD <SRD>,MOBIL <MOB>PLAN OFFSHORE PLATFORM Standard Oil Co said a contract hasbeen awarded to <CBS Engineering Inc> for a drilling andproduction platform to be installed in Ewing Bank Block 826 inthe Gulf of Mexico where Standard and Mobil Corp each own a 40pct interest.    Standard said its Standard Oil Production Co subsidiarywill operate the platform which is being designed to produce15,000 barrels of oil and 50 mln cubic feet of gas daily. Theplatform is now expected to be installed in the summer of 1988.Other owners are Kerr-McGee Corp <KMG> with 16.66 pct and<Prudential Insurance Co of America> with  3.34 pct. Reuter
BROOKLYN UNION'S <BU> UNIT TO EXPAND DRILLING Brooklyn Union Gas Co's BrooklynUnion Exploration Co Inc unit said it entered a 200 mln dlrthree-year gas and oil exploration and development venture withSmith Offshore Exploration Co.    The agreement calls for drilling of 10 to 12 offshore wellsper year, primarily in the Gulf of Mexico area off the Texasand Louisiana coasts and 30 to 40 onshore Texas and LouisianaGulf Coast wells.    Reuter
TEXACO <TX> SAYS SOME OIL FLOWS RE-ESTABLISHED Texaco Inc has re-established some keyoil supply lines following yesterday's court filing forprotection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. bankrupcty code, saidElton Yates, Texaco's coordinator of worldwide operations.    "Several companies say they are willing to start trading,"Yates told Reuters in an interview.    The company last week had stated that a number of domesticand international oil suppliers were demanding cash for oilshipments, and in some cases, had cut supplies altogether.Banks had also cut credit lines, it said in court filings.    Manufacturers Hanover Corp <MHC> and other banks toldTexaco it would cut off a one billion dlr credit line, Texacosaid in the court filing. Chase Manhattan Corp <CMB> and J.P.Morgan Co's <JPM> Morgan Guaranty Trust Co asked for depositsto cover transactions, it said.    The severe conditions with suppliers and creditors arosefrom an unfavorable ruling last Monday by the U.S. SupremeCourt in Texaco's ongoing dispute with Pennzoil Co <PZL> overthe acquisition of Getty Oil Co in 1984.    The High Court said Texas Courts must consider Texaco'splea to cut its 10.3 billion dlr bond while appealing the case.    "Most of the suppliers stayed with us as long as theycould," Elton said. But following Monday's Supreme Courtruling, Texaco's suppliers began demanding cash and haltingsupplies.    "It wasn't until last Wednesday that it turned into anavalanche," he said. "Supplies were cut to the point where wecould not run the system at anywhere near capacity."    He said less than half of Texaco's oil supplies had been injeapordy, but the cut off would have produced severe shortagesby mid-May. Now the situation appears much less severe, Eltonsaid.    It said that Sonatrach, the Algerian national oil company,canceled future deliveries of crude oil and natural gas,Occidental Petroleum Co <OXY> demanded cash for crude, andAtlantic Richfield Co <ARC> asked for special safeguards.    The company also said British Petroleum Co PLC <BP> lastweek refused to accept an order for fuel oil. But Yates todaysaid, "a big U.K. company has in fact said they would go onsupplying. They had cancelled last week."    He declined to identify the company.    <Petroleos de Venezuela S.A.>, the Venezuelan state oilcompany that supplies a large portion of Texaco's oil, alsohalted shipments two weeks ago, Yates said.    But he added that Texaco expected to meet with theVenezuelans later today in an attempt to reestablish that keysupply line. Talks were also expected to take place with theAlgerians, he added.    Bankruptcy specialists said it was likely Texaco's chapter11 filing would allow the company to secure its credit linesand oil supplies that are key to the company's business.    "It will be business as usual for Texaco," said MartinKlein, a bankruptcy attorney at the New York law firm Dreyerand Traub.    "Creditors are a nervous bunch of people," he said. "Butwhen the dust settles they will reevaluate the situation andwill likely extend credit to the chapter 11 company."    But other officials at Texaco were not immediatelyavailable to say whether discussions were being held with itsbanks, or whether credit lines had been reestablished. Reuter
KUWAITI DAILY SAYS OPEC CREDIBILITY AT STAKE OPEC's credibility faces fresh scrutinyin coming weeks amid signs of a significant rise in supplies ofoil to international oil markets, the Kuwait daily al-Qabassaid.    In an article headlined "Gulf oil sources say Middle Eastproduction up 1.4 mln bpd" and "Markets witness new surplus amidwhispers of return to cheating days," it warned OPEC's officialprices could face fresh pressure from international oilcompanies seeking cheaper supplies.    It did not say whether only OPEC or Opec and otherproducers were behind the reported rise in Mideast output. Nordid it specify if the sources were official or other contacts.   "The sources said the credibility of OPEC would come underfresh scrutiny from Monday, with activity in the European andAmerican markets," it said.    The sources were quoted as saying that after Opec had inMarch demonstrated its commitment to quota agreements, somemembers had raised output last week. It gave no details.    "Dealers in oil markets were now waiting to see if Opec wasable to control production, or whether the days of cheating andproducing over quotas has begun anew," it reported.   "The sources warned that maybe the (price of a) barrel of oilwill fall below 18, perhaps 17.80 dlrs this week or next ifthere is no control on supplies.    "The sources believed a return of oil below 18 dlrs a barrelmay open the doors for international oil companies to pressureOpec over contract prices, similar to the struggle last March,"it said, apparently referring to resistance by buyers to liftfrom Qatar unless it gave price discounts.    "More than one official has warned Opec would find itssolidarity under scrutiny by the end of April or start of May,"it said, noting demand usually fell with the onset of summer. Reuter
DOE RESOLVES ISSUES WITH ROYAL DUTCH <RD> UNIT The Energy Department said it hadapproved in final form an agreement that resolves all remainingissues with Shell Oil Co over oil pricing and allocationcontrols that ended in 1981.    Under the agreement, The Royal Dutch/Shell Group unit agreed to pay 20 mln dlrs to settle refiner pricing issues and160 mln dlrs to settle crude oil pricing issues, DOE said.    DOE said that before making the pact final, it modified itto reflect Shell's compliance with the Tertiary IncentiveProgram, a provision not in the version published last Dec 31. reuter
ABU DHABI MARKETING SAID NOT BREACHING OPEC PACT A senior Abu Dhabi oil official saidin remarks published today the emirate, largest producer in theUnited Arab Emirates (UAE), was succeeding in marketing itscrude oil without breaching OPEC accords.    Khalaf al-Oteiba, Marketing Director at the Abu DhabiNational Oil Co (ADNOC), told the company's Petroleum Communitymagazine ADNOC was also keen to keep good customer relations."The company will maintain its dialogue with and care for itscustomers in accordance with market conditions...And takenecessary steps to guarantee marketing its production," he said.   "The present oil marketing policy of ADNOC is based onadherence to OPEC decisions of December 1986 to controlproduction and establish a new pricing system in an attempt tostabilize the market," he added.    OPEC agreed last December to limit production to 15.8 mlnbpd and return to fixed prices averaging 18 dlrs a barrel.    Oteiba said stabilization of the oil market in the futuredepended on how much discipline OPEC showed.    Oteiba said last year, when world oil prices dropped, wasADNOC's most difficult ever but "a practical and flexiblepricing policy was implemented to relate to the changed marketenvironment."    He said crude oil sales last year jumped to an average609,000 bpd of which 73 pct was exported. Refined product salestotalled eight mln metric tonnes, of which 67 pct was exported.    In 1985, ADNOC marketed a total of 476,000 bpd of crude oiland 7.2 mln tonnes of refined products. Reuter
GULF CANADA <GOC> ACQUIRES SUEZ OIL STAKE Gulf Canada Corp said itacquired a 25 pct working interest in the Gulf of Suez oilconcession for undisclosed terms.    The company said its agreement with operator ConocoHurghada Inc and Hispanoil covered the 168,374-acre EastHurghada offshore concession. It said a 15.6 mln U.S. dlrfour-well program was planned for 1987.    After the acquisition, which is subject to Egyptiangovernment approval, working interests in the Hurghada blockwill be Conoco Hurghada at 45 pct, Hispanoil 30 pct and GulfCanada the balance. Reuter
TEXACO FILING ADDS UNCERTAINTY IN OIL MARKET U.S. oil traders said Texaco Inc'sfiling for protection under the Chapter 11 bankruptcy code isadding uncertainty to an already skittish oil market, butopinions are divided on the impact to the market.    "The filing is holding up wet barrel trading today," saidone trader. "Everyone is talking about it, assessing theircompany's situations in relation to Texaco," he added.     Some traders said companies that deal with Texaco areconcerned about whether they will receive payment or suppliesunder the bankruptcy filing.    However, others were less worried. "The first paid will bethe trading community and those connected with Texaco in theshipping industry," one New York trader said.    "If Texaco doesn't get crude supplies it can't run itsrefineries, so its other assets would not be worth anything,"he added.    Texaco filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S.bankruptcy code yesterday after failing to reach a settlementwith Pennzoil on an 11 billion dlrs court award for illegallyinterferring with Pennzoil's proposed purchase of Getty Oil Co.    However, others were less worried. "The first paid will bethe trading community and those connected with Texaco in theshipping industry," one New York trader said.    "If Texaco doesn't get crude supplies it can't run itsrefineries, so its other assets would not be worth anything,"he added.    Texaco filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S.bankruptcy code yesterday after failing to reach a settlementwith Pennzoil on an 11 billion dlrs court award for illegallyinterferring with Pennzoil's proposed purchase of Getty Oil Co.    "There is some reluctance to trade with Texaco but no greatchange," said another trader, adding that traders are tendingtoward prudence in their dealings with the company.    Traders are assessing whether to require cash prepayment orletters of credit, or to continue to trade as usual with Texacoon an open line basis, he said.    Another trader, however, described today's activity asbusiness as usual, adding that traders feel more secure becauseno liens can be put on Texaco's assets while it is inbankruptcy.    Traders said there was no apparent effect of the Texacofiling on crude futures trading although they said the exchangemight lower Texaco's position limit and require higher marginsfor Texaco's trades.    New York Mercantile Exchange President Rosemary McFaddendeclined to comment on Texaco's futures trading, saying that isis proprietary information. McFadden did say, however, that asa matter of procedure, it is possible the exchange can lowerallowable position limits or increase margin requirements forcompanies that are in financial trouble. Reuter
ECUADOR SAYS WILL RESUME LIMITED OIL PRODUCTION Ecuador will resume limited crude outputnext week to fill up storage tanks as a first step to pump oilto a Colombian pipeline on May one, the state EcuadoreanPetroleum Corp (CEPE) said.    CEPE manager Carlos Romoleroux told reporters that Ecuadorwould begin pumping an unspecified amount of crude innortheastern jungle oilfields at the end of next week inpreparation to send the oil through a new pipeline link-up toneighbouring Colombia.    Oil production in Ecuador was halted on March five when anearthquake damaged the country's main pipeline from Lago Agrio,at the heart of the Ecuadorean jungle oilfields, to the pacificport of Balao.    It will take at least until the end of July to repair thepipeline and return output to normal levels. The country waspumping between 245,000 bpd and 250,000 bpd before the tremor.    To resume limited output in the meantime, Ecuador isconstructing a 26 mile pipeline linkup, capable of carrying55,000 bpd, from Lago Agrio to Puerto Colon, the starting pointof Colombia's pipeline to the Pacific port of Tumaco.    The original target date to resume limited crude output wasMay eight, the scheduled date for the inauguration of the LagoAgrio to Puerto Colon pipeline, an energy ministry spokesmansaid. Reuter
SAUDI ARABIA WANTS TO INCREASE OIL SALES TO JAPAN Saudi Arabia hopes to increase the volumeof its oil exports to Japan through expanding bilateral trade,Saudi Arabian Interior Minister Naif bin Abdul-Aziz said.    He told a Tokyo reception his country hopes to raise crudeand products exports to Japan to earlier levels, but did notelaborate. To promote trade, Saudi Arabia is inviting Japaneseindustries to do business there, he said.    Japanese firms now have long-term contracts to import atotal of 150,000 barrels per day of Saudi crude. REUTER
ASIA TRYING TO FOSTER OIL EXPLORATION, SAYS U.N. Asian countries are offering better oilexploration concessions to avert damaging shortfalls due tolast year's oil price slump, the United Nations said.    The Bangkok-based U.N. Economic and Social Commission forAsia and the Pacific said in its annual report that the pricefall substantially cut exploration by foreign oil firms, whichfound it unprofitable to maintain investments in the region.    Oil production investment in Indonesia fell to about 2.8billion dlrs in 1985 from 3.2 billion in 1983 and was estimatedto have declined six pct last year. There were 11 wells drilledin Thailand in 1986 against 64 in 1985.    The report said <Thai Shell Exploration and Production CoLtd>, a unit of the <Royal Dutch/Shell Group> announced a 30pct cut in exploration and production spending last year.    To counter declining output, India and Malaysia reducedpetroleum sharing demands, while Indonesia cut taxes.    Nepal offered a guaranteed income share of up to 87.5 pctto cover exploration costs, while Thailand began decreasing its12.5 pct royalty payments. The big losers were major regionalexporters such as Indonesia, Brunei, China, Malaysia and Iran.Their aggregate oil income fell an estimated 20 billion dlrs in1986 from 40 billion the previous year.    Indonesia's export earnings fell by nearly half in 1986from 11.6 billion dlrs in 1985, the U.N. Report said.    Iran also lost about six billion dlrs, Brunei 3.8 billion,China three billion and Malaysia 0.8 billion.    However, Asian importers saved between eight and ninebillion dlrs during 1985 and 1986, which considerably easedtheir balance of payments.    South Korea, the Philippines, India, Thailand and Pakistanwere major beneficiaries, with Thailand and Pakistanrespectively saving about 875 mln and 435 mln dlrs last year. REUTER
ESSO UK PLANNING SLIGHTLY LESS OIL EXPLORATION <Esso U.K. Plc>'s 1987 explorationscheme involves less activity than last year, said a companyspokeswoman.    She confirmed that Esso UK, a member of Exxon Corp <XON>,was likely to participate in 15 to 20 wells this year, against25 wells last year. Total capital expenditure budget this year,however, will be similar to last year's budget of about 450 mlnstg, she said.    She added that exploration and production expenditure lastyear was 370 mln stg and Esso UK turned the year with 1.2billion stg of forward capital commitment.    The spokeswoman said 30 to 40 pct in cost savings had beenmade for development plans for Kittiwake - the only field inthe Shell-Esso Gannet North Sea oil and gas cluster still beingconsidered for development over the next few years.    Esso UK and <Shell U.K. Exploration and Production>, partof the Shell Transport and Trading <SC.L> group, have so farspent between 300 to 350 mln stg on Kittiwake, with recoverablereserves of some 70 mln barrels. Cost savings were also made onthe 40 to 45 mln barrel Osprey field which is expected to costat least 150 mln stg to develop. Development of both fields areexpected to go ahead this year or early next year, she said. REUTER
HODEL SAYS ODDS ON FINDING NEW ALASKA OIL 1-IN-5 U.S. Interior Secretary Donald Hodelsaid there was a one in five chance that new drilling in Alaskawould find oil.    "But if it's there, there's a very good chance that it wouldbe a giant field," Hodel said on ABC's "Good Morning America."    "So it is the best geological prospect that they(geologists) have talked to me about since I've been involvedin this process," he said.    Hodel announced yesterday that he would urge Congress toopen up 1.5 mln acres of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge inAlaska to oil exploration despite fears of environmental damagethreatening the Caribou herd in the region.    He said today the exploration was needed in an effort toprevent future U.S. oil shortages and said oil drilling in thelarge Prudhoe Bay field in Alaska proved oil could be drilledwithout severely damaging the environment.    He said the Caribou herd at Prudhoe Bay had tripled,contrary to concerns before the drilling operation that itwould endanger the herd. Reuter
DU PONT'S <DD> CONOCO FINDS OIL OFFSHORE CONGO Du Pont Co's Conoco Inc said the ViodoMarine Number one exploratory well offshore the People'sRepublic of the Congo produced up to 1,135 barrels of 26.55degree gravity oil daily in tests through a 3/4 inch choke.    The company said the well, in 202 feet of water about 10miles west of Pointe-Noire, Congo, was drilled to a depth of11,527 feet and tested between 7,204 feet and 11,300 feet.    The well is located on the Marine II block, a 260,000 acreoffshore permit acquired in May 1985, where Conoco is operatorwith a 42.5 pct interest. <Orange-Nassau Marine C.V.> owns 7.5pct and Hydro Congo, the state oil company, 50 pct. Reuter
API OIL INVENTORY REPORT TO BE ISSUED TONIGHT The American Petroleum Institute, API,said its weekly U.S. petroleum inventory report will be issuedtonight, despite many company closures on Friday of last weekfor the Easter holiday.    The API report is usually released around 1700 EDT onTuesday nights.    The Energy Information Administration said it also expectsits weekly oil statistic report to be released as usual, onWednesday night at about 1700 EDT. Reuter
API SAID STATISTICS TO BE RELEASED TONIGHT The American Petroleum Institute saidit plans to release its weekly report on U.S. oil inventoriestonight, even though last Friday was a holiday. Reuter
ECUADOR TO USE COLOMBIA OIL LINK FOR FIVE YEARS Ecuador will use a new pipeline linkwith Colombia to export crude oil for the next five years,Colombian mines and energy minister Guillermo Perry said.    The link will be inaugurated on May 8. It was built toallow Ecuador to resume exports of crude oil halted on March 5by earthquake damage to its Lago Agrio to Balao pipeline,    Once that pipeline is repaired, Ecuador will exceed itsOPEC quota in order to offset lost income and pay debtscontracted with Venezuela and Nigeria since the quake, Ecuadormines and energy minister Javier Espinosa said.    The two ministers were speaking at a news conference aftersigning an agreement for joint oil exploration and exploitationof the jungle border zone between the two nations. Drillingwill begin in September.    "The agreement to transport Ecuadorean crude oil is not onlyfor this emergency period but for the next five years, withpossibility of an extension. Between 20,000 and 50,000 barrelsper day (bpd) will be pumped along it," Perry said.    Espinosa said Ecuador planned to pump 35 mln barrelsthrough the link in the next five years, at a cost of 75 centsper barrel during the first year.    The 43-km link, with a maximum capacity of 50,000 bpd, willrun from Lago Agrio, the centre of of Ecuador's jungleoilfields, to an existing Colombian pipeline that runs to thePacific port of Tumaco.    Espinosa said the 32-km stretch of the link built on theEcuadorean side cost 10.5 mln dlrs. Perry gave no figures forColombia's 11 km segment but said it was "insignificant comparedwith what we are going to earn."    OPEC member Ecuador was pumping around 250,000 bpd beforethe quake. Lost exports of 185,000 bpd are costing it 90 mlndlrs per month, Espinosa said. REUTER
SHELL CANADA <SHC.TO> SEES BETTER YEAR Shell Canada Ltd saidperformance in all business segments in the first quartershowed improvement over last year and it expects "significantlyenhanced performance" in 1987.    Shell Canada reported first quarter earnings of 103 mlndlrs, or 90 cts per share, up from 40 mln dlrs, or 32 cts pershare.    Oil products earnings were 38 mln dlrs, up 19 mln dlrs fromlast year, when margins were impaired by lower oil prices.    Shell Canada said chemical earnings were 17 mln dlrs in thequarter, compared with a loss of five mln dlrs in 1986. Thestyrene business saw significant improvement, stemming from anincrease in international demand.    Resources earnings increased by six mln dlrs to 46 mlndlrs. Lower prices for all commodities were offset by theremoval of the Petroleum and Gas Revenue Tax, the impact oflower royalty rates and higher volumes.    Gross production of crude oil and natural gas liquidsincreased seven pct from the first quarter of last year to11,200 cubic meters a day, Shell said.    Shell Canada also said natural gas sales volumes of 19.6mln cubic meters a day was up five pct from last year.    Sulphur sales of 4,143 tonnes a day were up 70 pct.    The company also recorded benefits of 10 mln dlrs from theacquisition of Shell Explorer Ltd. Interest expense for thequarter was lower than in the previous year, due to the earlyretirement of a 200 mln U.S. dlr debenture and the impact of astronger Canadian dollar on U.S. dollar-denominated debt. Reuter
CONSOLIDATED GAS <CNG>HIGH BIDDER ON GULF TRACTS Consolidated Natural Gas Co said itsCNG Producing Co subsidiary, bidding alone or with partners,was the apparent high bidder on six of seven tracts it south atWednesday's sale of federal oil and gas leases in the Gulf ofMexico.    The company said it share of the six bids totaled 6.2 mlndlrs. Its 100 pct interest bids were on three offshore tracts-- West Cameron 209, 302 and 303. Consolidated has a 50 pctinterest in the bid for Eugene Island 375 and Ship Shoal 128and 129.       The remaining interest in 139 is held by Sun EnergyPartners <SLP>, which is 96.3 pct owned by Sun Co Inc <SUN>.<Union Texas Petroleum Corp>, which is 49.7 pct owned byAllied-Signal Inc <ALD>, is Consolidated's partner on the othertwo tracts. Reuter
EXXON <XON> NET DROPS ON LOWER OIL, GAS PRICES Exxon Corp reported a 37 pct drop infirst quarter profits to 1.07 billion dlrs citing lower oil andgas prices.    The company said profits in the lastest quarter included a26 mln drl restructuring gain from divestment of certain goldoperations overseas, while last year's first quarter profit of1.71 billion dlrs included the initial charge of 235 mln dlrsfor its 1986 corporate reorganization.    First quarter revenues were down 13 pct to 19.44 billiondlrs.       One time items aside, Exxon said, its first quarter resultswere stronger than 1986's final quarter which included severallarge asset sales and positive inventory adjustments.    It said earnings per share declined 36 pct reflecting thecompany's continued purchases of its own common for thetreasury. During the first quarter, 5,085,000 shares wereacquired at a cost of 416 mln dlrs compared with 3,132,000 in1986's fourth quarter.    Commenting on the first quarter, Exxon said crude oilprices strengthened moderately within the quarter and werehigher than a year ago at the end of the quarter.       However, average crude prices for the quarter were belowthe year ago period, leading to lower earnings for explorationand production operations, Exxon said.    Also contributing to reduced earnings were lower naturalgas prices, primarily overseas, representing contractadjustments representing contract adjustments tied to fallingproduct prices in 1986, the company said.    During the first quarter, the company said, intensecompetition in both domestic and international markets servedto depress margins for refined products.       Exxon said the lower product margins resulted insignificantly reduced earnings for refining and marketingoperations, contrasting sharply with the unusually strongmargins prevailing in the first qtr of 1986.    It said savings from efforts to control costs and improveefficiency helped soften the negative impact of lower oil andnatural gas prices.    Exxon said earnings from chemicals and power generationactivities showed consideratble improvement, remaining strongthroughout the period. Reuter
PHILLIPS <P> CITES LOWER OIL PRICES IN DECLINE Phillips Petroleum Co citedlower oil and gas prices in its first quarter loss of 32 mlndlrs or 16 cts a shares compared with net income of 96 mln dlrsor 39 cts a share in the year-ago period.    It also said there was a decline in crude oil productiondue to its recently completed asset sales program.    Phillips also said it expects crude prices will continue tobe soft in the second and third quarters, but will improvetoward the end of the year.       Phillips also said that foreign currency transaction lossesin the first quarter were 10 mln dlrs compared with a gain of46 mln dlrs in the fourth quarter of 1986 and a loss of one mlndlrs in the first quarter of 1986. Reuter
VENEZUELA RE-ESTABLISHES POSTED PRODUCT PRICES Petroleos de Venezuela, PDVSA, thestate owned oil company, has re-established posted prices forsome light products and heavy fuel oil, industry sources in NewYork said.    The return to posted prices is a sign that the market isreturning to a more stable and orderly condition after a yearof volatile price movements in which Venezuela ceased postingprices and moved to negotiating prices with companies.    "We are in more stable market now and PDVSA has probablydecided to return to postings for some products," one industrytrade source said.       But there was no talk of Venezuela posting prices for crudeoil which were also dropped in 1986.    Posted prices were dropped in the first quarter of 1986  when prices for crude oil and products tumbled in response toOPEC's market share strategy and netback arrangements.    PDVSA has set out posted prices for several groups of lightproducts including gasoline, naphtha, jet kerosene anddistillates effective April 15 as follows.    Unleaded gasoline was posted at 19.74 dlrs a barrel (47 ctsa gallon) with leaded gasoline at 20.16 dlrs a barrel (48 cts agallon).       Light naphtha was posted at 17.85 dlrs a barrel (42.5 cts agallon), full range naphtha at 19.11 dlrs a barrel (45.50 cts agallon), and heavy naphtha at 19.53 cts a gallon (46.5 cts agallon).    Jet kerosene was posted at 18.90 dlrs a barrel, alsoeffective April 15, or (45 cts a gallon) with dual purposekerosene at 18.06 dlrs a barrel (43 cts a gallon).    Distillates of 0.2 pct sulphur and 0.3 pct sulphur gradeswere posted at 18.48 dlrs a barrel (44 cts a gallon), each with0.5 pct sulphur 18.08 dlrs a barrel (43.05 cts a gallon).    LPG postings, also effective from April 15, were made as follows, propane 175 dlrs a tonne (33.33 cts a gallon), butane210 dlrs a tonne (46.26 cts a gallon) and isobutane at 240 dlrsa tonne.    Heavy fuel products were given a posted price effectiveApril 10 and ranged from 0.3 pct sulphur at 19.35 dlrs a barrelto 17.21 dlrs a barrel for 2.8 pct sulphur.    Heavy fuel postings are also referred to as minimum exportprices. Reuter
NOBLE <NBL> SUBMITS HIGH BID FOR TRACT Noble Affiliates Inc said itsubmitted the high bid for six tracts at the Central Gulf ofMexico sale on April 22.    It said its exploration and production subsidiary, SamedanOil Corp, participated in the high bid for the followingtracts, West Cameron 296, East Cameron 296, Vermilion 266, ShipShoal 350, Main Pass 90 and Main Pass 100. Reuter
PETRANOL IN TAKEOVER TALKS WITH PERRODO GROUP <Petranol Plc> said it was discussingthe takeover of an unnamed company owned by Frenchman HubertPerrodo in exchange for Perrodo taking a 51 pct stake inPetranol.    It said in a statement the assets of the company to beacquired included a "substantial interest" in an unspecified oilfield in Torrance, California, and five mln dlrs in cash.    Funding commitments for Petranol, both in respect of theCalifornian oil field and Petranol's existing U.S. Assets,would be included in the agreement. Petranol said the dealwould enhance its presence in the U.S., Increase its capitaland secure the availability of development cash. Reuter
SHELL OIL FIRST QUARTER NET DROPS 61 PCT  Shell Oil Co said first quarter netincome dropped 61 pct over the prior-year quarter on revenuesthat slipped four pct.    "Lower prices for crude oil and natural gas and reducedmargins in our oil and chemical products businesses were themajor factor for the earings decline," John F. Bookout,president, said in a statement.    For the quarter, the company, a unit of Royal Dutch/ShellGroup <RD> <SC>, earned 108 mln dlrs on sales of 4.50 billiondlrs, compared with 276 mln dlrs on sales of 4.67 billion dlrsa year ago.    Bookout said the company is cautiously optimistic oilmarkets will be less volatile in coming months than they werein 1986.    "In coming months, oil products results should benefit fromseasonally higher gasoline volumes," he said.    "However, so long as U.S. product inventories remain high,it may be difficult to fully recover from the depressed marginsof recent periods," he added.    Bookout said the company's chemical products earningsshould benefit from strong performances in chemical salesvolumes and continued high industry operating rates.    Shell said its oil and gas exploration and product segmentearned 110 mln dlrs for the quarter vs 91 mln dlrs in 1986.    It said earnings were hurt by lower selling prices forcrude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. Domestic crudeoil prices averaged 14.24 dlrs a barrel, compared with 19.28dlrs last year, while natural gas prices dropped 24 pct, Shellsaid.    Shell said earnings at its oil products segment plunged by53 mln dlrs, to eight mln dlrs. It said lower refined productselling prices were only partially offset by reduced rawmaterial costs.    The company said earnings from chemical products also fellsharply, to 40 mln dlrs from 72 mln dlrs, due mainly to lowermargins, especially in commodity chemicals, coupled with itspullout from the agricultural chemicals business in October1986.    Shell said capital and exploratory outlays totaled 500 mlndlrs for the quarter, off from 645 mln dlrs. Reuter
U.S. ENERGY COSTS ROSE IN MARCH BY 1.0 PCT Consumer energy costs rose 1.0 pctin March following a moderate rise last month, the LaborDepartment said.    The March increase in the overall energy costs, includingpetroleum, coal and natural gas, followed a 3.0 pct rise inJanuary and a 1.9 pct rise in February, it said.    However, energy prices were 5.6 pct below year-ago levels.    The department's Consumer Price Index showed that the costof gasoline rose in March by 2.3 pct, after a 4.2 pct rise inFebruary.    Gasoline prices were nonetheless 5.9 pct below their levelsas of March 1986.    Also, the category including fuel oil, coal and bottled gasrose in March by 1.4 pct, putting it 9.0 pct under the year-agofigure.    The index also showed that natural gas and electricity wereunchanged last month, but down 3.1 pct from the March 1986figure, the department said.    The index has been updated to reflect 1982-84 consumptionpatterns. Previously, the index was based on 1972-73 patterns. Reuter
ECUADOR ECONOMY SEEN CONTRACTING IN 1987 The Ecuadorean economy, struck by anearthquake last month, will contract an estimated four pct in1987 and its crude oil output will drop by 42 pct, thegovernment's national development council (Conade) said.    A Conade report, dated April 21 and obtained, said that thecountry's gross domestic product (gdp) would fall by anestimated four pct compared to 1.5 pct growth last year. Conadefunctions as the country's main planning institution.    Crude output will fall to 61.2 mln barrels in 1987 from105.6 mln in 1986, Conade said. It forecast exports of 22.9 mlnof crude and derivatives against 63.3 mln last year.    The March five earthquake killed up to 1,000 people andcaused an estimated one billion dlrs in damage. It paralyzedEcuador's crude output because it ruptured the country's mainpipeline from Lago Agrio, at the heart of jungle oilfields, tothe Pacific Ocean port of Balao.    It will take until at least end-July to repair the line andreturn output to normal levels, oil officials said. Ecuadoroutput was about 250,000 barrels per day before the tremor.    Conade forecast total 1987 exports of 1.77 billion dlrs,572 mln dlrs of which would be oil and derivatives.    Imports were forecast at 1.70 billion dlrs. Total 1986exports were 2.18 billion dlrs, of which 979 mln dlrs werecrude and derivatives, with total imports 1.66 billion dlrs.    Conade predicted that payments on Ecuador's 8.16 billiondlrs foreign debt will be limited to 947 mln dlrs this yearagainst 1.489 billion dlrs last year. Conade's projectedceiling on payments is not legally binding.    The current account balance of payments deficit was seen at934 mln dlrs in 1987. It was 696 mln dlrs in 1986. Reuter
QATAR"S BANKS SET FOR FURTHER LEAN SPELL Bank profits in the Gulf oil state ofQatar are coming under renewed pressure and foreign banks areretrenching further in one of the region"s most overbankedmarkets.    Results for 1986 show a year of declining profit forseveral foreign banks, although locally-owned operations werein some cases able to cushion the drop by increasing marketshare.    <Qatar National Bank SAQ>"s (QNB) General Manager, AbdullaKhalid al-Attiya, said: "The economy is not improving as wehoped... 1987 will be another difficult year for the banks."    Oil-dependent Qatar, with a tiny indigenous population of60,000 to 80,000 and an expatriate workforce estimated at about280,000, boasts five local banks and 10 foreign bankoperations.    Local and foreign bankers in the capital said the Gulf-widerecession, aggravated this year by Qatar"s severe difficultymarketing its crude oil at official OPEC prices, has taken aheavy toll on the economy and bank profitability.    As a result, the only U.S. Bank, <Citibank NA>, is thoughtto be negotiating to sell its operation to the fast growinglocally based <Al Ahli Bank of Qatar QSC> which only startedoperations in 1984, bankers said. Citibank would not comment.    Other foreign banks have retrenched, with <StandardChartered Bank> cutting staff and others expected to follow.<Banque Paribas> is examining a change in its status to admit51 pct Qatari ownership in a bid to improve its access to localbusiness, bankers said.    One banker added: "Weak profits are here to stay for thetime being. There is no cause for optimism at the moment."    Sentiment had picked up briefly at the end of last yearwhen OPEC reached its accord to curb oil output and return tofixed prices. However, it soon became apparent that Qatar washaving difficulty selling oil at OPEC prices.    The soft spot oil market has left official Qatari crudeprices 20 to 40 cents more expensive and sales have beenrunning in recent weeks at 100,000 and 120,000 barrels per day,well down on the nation"s OPEC quota of 285,000, oil sourcessaid.    Bankers said this serious shortfall in Qatar"s revenue hasled to a new spate of payments delays from the public sector toprivate contractors after a marginal improvement in January.    Loan loss provisions continued to eat into bank profitslast year, as did the introduction of minimum reserverequirements by the Qatar Monetary Agency. Trade financing hasalmost dried up as a traditional source of bank income.    Of the local banks, QNB conducts the bulk of thegovernment"s business and subsequently enjoys a huge advantageits rivals cannot expect to match, bankers said.    The bank reported a 2.9 pct rise in net 1986 profit to 93.1mln Qatari riyals, while its balance sheet grew by 10.8 pct to9.0 billion, making it by far the largest bank in Qatar.    But the strong assets growth partly reflected bridgingloans for the public and private sector to tide governmentdepartments and local business over the lean economic spell,Attiya said. "Generally speaking, we are overbanked in Qatar," hesaid, echoing a widespread feeling in the banking community.    Other local banks fared less strongly. The second largest,<Doha Bank Ltd QSC>, reported a 13 pct drop in net profit to27.5 mln riyals, while <Commercial Bank of Qatar Ltd QSC>,registered a decline to 18.5 mln riyals from 19.4 mln in 1985.    The newcomer Al Ahli Bank, continued to expand rapidly andreported net profit of 5.2 mln compared with 3.3 mln during thestart-up period from August 4, 1984 to end-1985.    Bankers said the local banks had clearly begun to wincommercial deposits previously held by foreign banks,increasing already strong pressure on non-Qatari banks toreexamine their staffing levels and overheads.    <Grindlays Bank PLC> recorded a net loss at its Doha branchlast year of 4.7 mln riyals after registering a nominal profitin 1985 of 12,000 riyals.    Two other long-established banks in the Gulf, the <BritishBank of the Middle East> (BBME) and Standard Chartered, alsofound last year a difficult climate to make strong profits.    BBME"s net profit fell to 3.2 mln riyals from 10.4 mln in1985, but Assistant Manager John Farquharson said 1985"s resulthad been artificially inflated by tax rebates on provisions.    "Foreign banks are seeing their assets decline, while localbanks are increasing their market share," Farquharson said.    BBME"s operating profit was steady in 1986, edging up to12.3 mln riyals from 11.5 mln in 1985. "We are expecting thesame level of operating profit in 1987," Farquharson said.    Standard Chartered"s net profit last year recovered slightlyto 1.6 mln riyals after a loss of 161,000 in 1985. Staffnumbers were cut last year to reduce overheads.    Bankers said the lack of new construction projects in Qatarmeans business is unlikely to pick up this year although hopesare rising that the start of Qatari gas exploitation couldprovide a boost. But the threat of higher U.S. Interest ratesmay erode bank deposits as savings are moved offshore. REUTER
U.S. CONSIDERING OIL INDUSTRY TAX INCENTIVES The Reagan Administration isconsidering tax incentives to boost oil output and restore100,000 jobs, U.S. Energy Secretary John Herrington said.    A tax credit for new exploration would be part of a packageto bring 1,000 idle drilling rigs back into operation and raisedomestic production by one mln barrels a day, he said.    The tax status of exploration might also be changed,Herrington told reporters at the World Petroleum Congress.    He said the oil industry was experiencing difficult timesinternationally and had been devastated in the United States.    Consumer demand and a significant decline in domesticproduction has resulted in a rise in oil imports of one mlnbarrels a day in over the last 16 months, Herrington said.    "Steps must be taken...To reverse the downturn in ourdomestic energy industry and to safeguard and increase ourenergy security," he said.    The administration is committed to improving marketplaceconditions and incentives to spur exploration and development.    "This commitment includes rejecting quick fix solutions,like an oil import fee, which are bad for the United States andbad for the world," he added. REUTER
WORLD OIL DEMAND LIKELY TO INCREASE, SUBROTO SAYS Oil prices have stabilized in worldmarkets and demand is likely to increase in the second half ofthe year, Indonesia's Mines and Energy Minister Subroto said.    He told a meeting of oil industry executives that oilprices had stabilized at 18 dlrs a barrel -- the average fixedprice OPEC put into effect in February -- and supply and demandhave been in equilibrium since March.    If OPEC does not increase overall output in the second halfof the year, prices will tend to increase, because non-OPECproducers have not been able to produce more oil at currentprices, he said.    But he declined to predict, when asked after the meeting,whether OPEC would raise its production ceiling of 15.8 mlnbarrels at its next meeting in June.    He said in his speech that world oil production over thelast two months was estimated at 45.6 mln barrels a day, or twomln barrels a day less than world oil demand.    Oil production by industrialized countries, particularlythe U.S. And Canada, is expected to decrease this year, butsome of that slack will be taken up by increased production inCameroon, India and other developing countries, he said.    This year is a battle between OPEC and non-OPEC oilproducers and consumers in the industrialized world for theupper hand in world oil markets, Subroto said in an earlierspeech to management trainees at Pertamina Oil Company.    "If OPEC emerges the winner, than it can gradually resumeits former role in world oil markets," he said.    "But don't expect oil prices to return to the level of 28-30dlrs a barrel, at least not in the next three or four years,"Subroto said. REUTER
WORLD OIL DEMAND LIKELY TO INCREASE, SUBROTO SAYS Oil prices have stabilized in worldmarkets and demand is likely to increase in the second half ofthe year, Indonesia's Mines and Energy Minister Subroto said.    He told a meeting of oil industry executives that oilprices had stabilized at 18 dlrs a barrel -- the average fixedprice OPEC put into effect in February -- and supply and demandhave been in equilibrium since March.    If OPEC does not increase overall output in the second halfof the year, prices will tend to increase, because non-OPECproducers have not been able to produce more oil at currentprices, he said.    But he declined to predict, when asked after the meeting,whether OPEC would raise its production ceiling of 15.8 mlnbarrels at its next meeting in June.    He said in his speech that world oil production over thelast two months was estimated at 45.6 mln barrels a day, or twomln barrels a day less than world oil demand.    Oil production by industrialized countries, particularlythe U.S. And Canada, is expected to decrease this year, butsome of that slack will be taken up by increased production inCameroon, India and other developing countries, he said.    This year is a battle between OPEC and non-OPEC oilproducers and consumers in the industrialized world for theupper hand in world oil markets, Subroto said in an earlierspeech to management trainees at Pertamina Oil Company.    "If OPEC emerges the winner, than it can gradually resumeits former role in world oil markets," he said.    "But don't expect oil prices to return to the level of 28-30dlrs a barrel, at least not in the next three or four years,"Subroto said. REUTER
SAUDIS NOT SEEKING OIL PRICE ABOVE 18 DLRS - MEES Saudi Arabia will not seek to push OPECoil prices above the current benchmark of 18 dlrs per barrelunless oil demand grows strongly, the Middle East EconomicSurvey (MEES) said.    The Cyprus-based weekly newsletter quoted authoritativeSaudi sources as saying the Kingdom's oil price policy wouldnot change "unless and until there is a strong revival in thegrowth of demand for oil."    MEES said this contradicted recent hints of new Saudi pricehawkishness from U.S. Congressional and oil industry sources.    The Saudi sources said their policy was firmly based on thelong-term need to restore the competitive position of oil ingeneral and OPEC oil in particular against other energysources.    "Saudi Arabia is certainly committed to cooperating with itsOPEC partners to exercise the necessary production restraint tomaintain the 18 dlr per barrel reference price level," MEESsaid.    The newsletter said Saudi output in the first three weeksof April averaged slightly above its OPEC quota of 4.133 mlnbarrels per day (bpd). Output would fall in the last week,causing the month's average to be below quota, MEES said.    MEES estimated overall OPEC production for April at around16.8-16.9 mln bpd -- two mln bpd more than both its figures forMarch and Reuter estimates for March.    It said Iranian production had risen by 500,000 bpd thismonth to 2.2-2.3 mln bpd, around its quota level. In Iraq, withan OPEC-assigned quota of 1.466 mln bpd, output rose this monthto two mln bpd, not including "war relief" supplies from Kuwaitand Saudi Arabia, the newsletter said.    Nigeria, which has had problems selling its full 1.238 mlnbpd entitlement, increased its output to 1.2 mln bpd, it added. REUTER
U.S. CONSIDERING OIL INDUSTRY TAX INCENTIVES The Reagan Administration isconsidering tax incentives to boost oil output and restore100,000 jobs, U.S. Energy Secretary John Herrington said.    A tax credit for new exploration would be part of a packageto bring 1,000 idle drilling rigs back into operation and raisedomestic production by one mln barrels a day, he said.    The tax status of exploration might also be changed,Herrington told reporters at the World Petroleum Congress.    He said the oil industry was experiencing difficult timesinternationally and had been devastated in the United States.    Consumer demand and a significant decline in domesticproduction has resulted in a rise in oil imports of one mlnbarrels a day in over the last 16 months, Herrington said.    "Steps must be taken...To reverse the downturn in ourdomestic energy industry and to safeguard and increase ourenergy security," he said.    The administration is committed to improving marketplaceconditions and incentives to spur exploration and development.    "This commitment includes rejecting quick fix solutions,like an oil import fee, which are bad for the United States andbad for the world," he added. REUTER
EXXON <XON> SEES DROP IN NEW OIL DISCOVERIES Exxon Corp chairman Lawrence Rawl saidtotal world energy consumption will continue to grow, but addednew oil discoveries worldwide are slowing down and can notoffset annual production.    In a speech at the World Petroleum Congress here, Rawl saidoil companies would increasingly be forced to turn to enhancedrecovery techniques, very heavy oil and synthetics tocompensate for substantial declines in conventional oilproduction.    "What our current outlook suggests is that total worldenergy consumption will continue to grow steadily in an evermore energy efficient world," Rawl said. But, he added, Exxonprojects that "despite today's ample supplies, the world willalso be facing up to inherent limitations on the availabilityof oil and gas, which currently supplies more than half of theworld's energy needs."    The Exxon chairman told some 1,500 oil executives fromaround the world that some synthetics projects could becomepractical when oil reaches 30 dlrs to 40 dlrs a barrel range inreal terms.    "The question is when and how this will happen," he said."I believe that synthetic projects will not only re-emerge butwill become commercial well below those we were thinking aboutthe last time oil prices moved substantially higher."    Rawl said synthetic fuel would become economic at lowerprices because companies are investigating "a new generation ofideas that promise substantially lower costs" and projectsbegun in the late 1970s, which have since been suspended.    Rawl also said companies must find new and more effectiveways of enhanced recovery from existing oil fields.    "It would be my view that new oil discoveries, even withadvanced technology, are likely to slow down - not reverse -the decline in worldwide oil discoveries," he said. "So it isessential to find a better way to recover more of thediscovered oil from producing fields using chemicals, solvents,heat, and other techniques."    Rawl emphasized that private oil companies need someassistance from government in developing synfuels technology."More importantly, they need to provide a political andeconomic environment that is stable enough to allow thedevelopmental process to function effectively, he said.    Rawl also said stable energy markets serve the bestinterest of producing and consuming nations by allowing bothgroups to plan for steady economic growth.    He did not make any oil price prediction, saying only thatthe economic goals of the U.S. and other nations can only beachieved if world oil prices "stabilize within a reasonablerange."    "Prices must be high enough to meet realistic aspirationsfor income and encourage resource development in the producingcountries, but not so high as to inhibit economic growth inconsuming nations," he said.    The Exxon chairman also criticized "the occasional attemptof consuming nations to try to control domestic oil prices,calling such protectionist measures disruptive to the world oilmarket. Reuter
UK NOT CONSIDERING RESTRICTING OIL OUTPUT Britain is not considering anyrestriction of its present oil production, UK Energy MinisterAlick Buchanan-Smith said.     Speaking to reporters at the Offshore TechnologyConference, Buchanan-Smith said, "No, we've made thatabsolutely clear, we see no reason for changing (the productionlevel)."     Earlier today, Buchanan-Smith gave the go-ahead to MobilCorp for two new North Sea developments -- the Ness oil fieldand Beryl B subsea water injection project -- totalling 96 mlndlrs (60 mln British pounds).     Unlike Norway, which has restricted its production ofNorth Sea oil by 80,000 barrels a day in an effort to stabilizeworld oil prices, Britain has consistently refused to intervenein the market place.     Buchanan-Smith also said there may be a demand-supply gapin the 1990s for natural gas in Britain, but added that itwould probably be less than had been previously estimated.     Norway is a major producer of natural gas and this morningNorway's Energy Minister Arne Oien said he was hoping Britainwill take more Norwegian gas in the 1990s.     Buchanan-Smith also said he expects to announce theresults of the 10th licensing round of North Sea tracts nextmonth.     He said there had been 75 applications for 127 tracts by84 companies, and added that he expects about 50 blocks will belicensed.     He said the results would be in line with rounds prior tobut not equal to the ninth two years ago, which was one of themost successful ever. Reuter
POGO <PPP> SEES INCREASING OIL PRODUCTION Pogo Producing Co said it should gainsome 700 to 800 barrels per day of additional oil productionwhen new onshore wells start production in June.    The company said work on offshore properties appears to beon schedule to complete the addition before year end of about10 mln cubic feet of gas and 400 barrels of liquids to Pogo'sdaily producing capabilities.    In the first quarter, liquids production averaged 8,525barrels daily, down from 11,233 barrels a day in the yearearlier quarter. Reuter
OCCIDENTAL <OXY> HAS STAKE IN NORWAY OIL FIND Occidental Petroleum Corp said agroup in which it is a participant discovered oil in theoffshore Norwegian North Sea Block 9/2-1 exploratory well.    The well tested at a maximum rate of 6,800 barrels of 39degree API gravity oil and 918 thousand cubic feet of gasthrough a 3/4 inch choke. The well, the first to be drilled onthe block, was drilled in about 320 feet of water to a totaldepth of 12,228 feet subsea.    Occidental has a 10-pct stake in the 136,067-acre blockoperated by Statoil, the Norwegian state oil company, whichholds a 50 pct interest. Reuter
DECLINE IN U.S. DOLLAR MAY BOOST OPEC OIL PRICE The sliding value of the U.S. dollarmay soon force the Organization of Petroleum ExportingCountries to raise its oil benchmark price, setting the stagefor prices as high as 22 dlrs a barrel by yearend, topexecutives with U.S. oil companies said.    The current benchmark price of 18 dlrs a barrel wasestablished by the Organization of Petroleum ExportingCountries (OPEC) at its December meeting when the cartel set a15.8 mln barrel per day production ceiling.    But the continuing weakness of the U.S. dollar, thecurrency used by OPEC for its oil sales, is making the 18 dlrprice difficult to sustain, said Fred Hartley, chairman ofUnocal Corp <UCL>.    The U.S. dollar has fallen in value by about 10 pct sinceDecember and has fallen by a total of about 40 pct during thepast two years.    Hartley told Reuters he expected significantly higher oilprices this winter and would not rule out the potential for 25dlrs a barrel by the spring of 1988.    "I think June will be the critical month to see what theydo," said Hartley, who was in Houston to attend the WorldPetroleum Congress. OPEC has scheduled a regular meeting inJune which some experts believe is likely to revive suggestionsthat oil should be priced according to a basket of worldcurrencies instead of the U.S. dollar.    E.H. Clark, chairman of <Baker Hughes Inc>, said the Saudikingdom's need to generate revenues -- rather than greaterworld demand -- would drive any price increases.    "The Saudis have made committments and have a balance oftrade based on receiving 18 dlrs a barrel for this oil. But theU.S. dollar won't buy as much as it did five or six monthsago," Clark said in an interview. "I'm betting on the Saudiking's need to sustain revenues."    Clark predicted that world oil prices would top 22 dlrs abarrel by January one.    However, the authoritative Middle East Economic Surveyreported yesterday that Saudi Arabia would not seek to increaseOPEC oil prices unless oil demand showed strong growth.    Saudi sources told the newsletter that the policy was basedon the longterm need to restore the competitive position ofOPEC oil against other energy sources.    Many oil industry experts are forecasting a modest increasein world oil demand averaging one pct annually during the nextfew years.    Michel Moreau, a director of the <Elf Aquitaine Group>,said he believed the worldwide oil industry had reached aconsensus that prices of at least 20 dlrs a barrel werenecessary to cover exploration costs, royalties and taxes onnew production.    The 20 dlr level will be reached this year only if thecash-strapped nations of Nigeria, Egypt and Gabon refrain fromdiscounting oil prices or increasing production levels, Moreausaid.    "I think if more than two (OPEC nations) defect, theproduction agreement will fall apart," he said. "But thisthreat is the Saudis' big stick to keep producers in line.Nobody wants a repeat of the collapse that occurred in 1986."    Lawrence Rawl, chairman of Exxon Corp <XON>, told Reutershe expected prices would remain at 18 dlrs through the end of1987, adding that 20 dlrs a barrel was a possibility.    Other major companies are taking a more cautious view ofprices, fearing that some OPEC members may yet upset thecartel's production agreement.    "This is a year of testing," said Alfred Munk, manager offoreign affairs at Amoco Corp. (AN). "If they fail, there maybe a price decline to about 14 dlrs a barrel."    French-owned Total CFP's vice president Pierre Vaillaudsaid, "Demand is not going up very quickly, at best maybe onepercent a year. You can't change the price with just one pct,"Vaillaud said. Reuter
GOVERNMENTS SEEN MORE INVOLVED IN OIL DRILLING The offshore oil drilling industrywill attract increasing numbers of government connected firmsin the 1990s, according to Ronald Tappmeyer, Vice Chairman ofReading and Bates Drilling Co.     Tappmeyer told the Offshore Technology Conference thatcontract drilling was reaching the same kind of situation thatoil producing companies reached when their oilfields werenationalized in nations as Venezuela, Iran and Saudi Arabia.     He said local connections to the nation whose waters arebeing drilled was an increasingly important factor in themarket.     "We have seen contractors put at competitive disadvantagesin nations in which they had worked successfully for yearsessentially moved aside to make room for locally-owned firms ora locally-built rig," he said.     Tappmeyer, who is president of the InternationalAssociation of Drilling Contractors, said how far the trendwould spread depends on the growth of trade protectionism.     He added that international contractors will increasinglyfind their role restricted to regions that require specialexpertise and experience, such as wildcat areas and severeenvironments such as in the Arctic and extremely deep waters.     Tappmeyer also said he expects producing companies toprovide the main financing for offshore drilling in the comingdecade as banks will be unwilling to repeat overexposingthemselves and drilling contractors will have difficultyproviding financing out of cash flow.     At the same time, he said he saw the financing as indirectas he does not see producers getting back in the rig-owningbusiness.     He also said projectfinancing will have to be backed upby work commitments to guarantee the payoff of constructioncosts.     For the time being, he said there was a superabundance ofrigs. But he said there will be a need for new, technologicallyadvanced rigs within a few years.     He said the floating-drilling rigs were most likely tobenefit from new developments in technology, adding that by2,000 there should not be an ocean left that is too deep, toocold, too stormy or too remote to be explored. Reuter
SOVIET SAYS DATA SHARING WILL HELP FIND OIL A Soviet geologist said scientists needto coordinate data about onshore and offshore oil deposits tohelp identify global formations that would indicate otherpotential discoveries of oil and gas reserves.    Vladmir Vladiminovich Semenovich, the head of petroleumgeology at Moscow State University, told delegates at the WorldPetroleum Congress that exploration efficiency could also beimproved through new and more sophisticated technology.    "We should emphasize that when having the data aboutpetroleum distribution onshore and offshore, it is possible toclarify the idea of global regularities in oil and gasprospects," Semenovich said. "However, much work should be doneto coordinate data concerning the structure and oil and gasprospects in adjoining onshore and offshore basins."    Sharing the information could help geologists betterpredict regional trends and underground formations thatindicate the presence of oil or gas, he said.    Semenovich also said that existing estimates of thepotential oil and natural gas resources of the world may needto be revised upward as oil companies continue to examineunexplored regions.    The world, which has already produced 476 billion barrelsof oil and gas, has a current total of about 733 billionbarrels in proved reserves. Undiscovered resources areestimated at about 1.4 trillion barrels, or about half of thetotal ultimate reserves, Semenovich said.    "There are a lot of unstudied regions all over the worldand, as far as the already known basins, one continues to findadditional reserves," he said, noting that Antarctica has beenvirtually ignored. "The existing estimate of potentialresources of the world may need to be enlarged."    To find deeper and more expensive reserves, scientists willneed to use 3-D mapping of underground formations and laserspectrometry to measure bitumen in soils and plants among othertechniques, he said.    He estimated that continental slopes contain about 10 to 13pct of all offshore reserves.    Semenovich also said that virtually all of the total oiland gas resources now estimated to exist in the world would bediscovered and placed in production during the next 50 years.    After his speech, Semenovich told Reuters that Soviet oilproduction was increasing. "The difficulties of 1985 have beenovercome and we're now back to normal production," he said.    The Soviet Union, the world's largest producer of oil, hadexperienced drilling and technical problems that cut totalliquids production from 12.45 mln barrels a day in 1984 to 12.1mln barrels a day in 1985. Last year, the Soviets produced anestimated 12.3 mln barrels.    When asked about the recent reopening and testing of a coalgasification project in Soviet Central Asia, Semenovich saidthe project was important because of the lack of oil reservesin the region.    Semenovich declined to identify at what level of world oilprices the coal gasification process would become economicagain. "It's too expensive for the time being," Semenovichsaid.    "Theoretical development is underway and tests are beingrun. For the moment, coal gasification is a very small part ofthe energy industry," he said. Reuter
ENERGY/HEAVY OILS The oil price collapse of 1986 putdevelopment of a vast petroleum resource -- heavy and extraheavy oils -- on hold. But as oil prices increase the long-termeconomic outlook is favorable, oil industry experts said.    "Estimated potential world reserves of extra heavy oilsexceed 500 billion barrels, of which more than half are locatedin Venezuela," Juan Chacin Guzman, President of Petroleos deVenezuela told the World Petroleum Congress.    "And this virtually unused resource represents a primeexample of the need to invest in technology to ensuretomorrow's energy future," he added.    Venezuela had to reduce heavy crude oil output in favor oflight oils because of economics and a very limited market. Notmany refineries have been upgraded to process the heavy oils.    "Improved technology has the potential for reducing thecapital investment and operating costs of typical heavy oildevelopment projects by 30 pct or more," Gordon Willmon, VP andgeneral manager, oil sands and coal department, Esso ResourcesCanada Ltd said at the World Petroleum Congress.    Crude oil prices fell under 10 dlrs dlrs a barrel lastsummer as OPEC members increased production to gain marketshare, but have since risen to around 18 dlrs because the  OPECproduction/pricing agreement is basically in tact.    Willmon said light and medium crude oils currently supply90 pct of world oil demand yet they account for less than 25pct of remaining petroleum resources.    "So future demand increasingly will be met from the variousforms of heavy oil," Willmon said. Heavy crude oil resourcesinclude extra-heavy oil/tar sand, natural bituminous sands andoil shales (in sedimentary rock).     Willmon cited major factors that will make heavy oildevelopment economical, including real and stable growth incrude oil prices, favorable fiscal terms, and improvedtechnology.    He said he expects "all pieces of the puzzle to fittogether." But he cautioned that the short-term outlook is verysensitive to crude oil prices. And he said the most importantfactor in development of heavy oils is the recovery of theprice of crude.    Willmon said the price of light crude must be about eightdlrs higher than heavy crude before there is an incentive foran oil company to upgrade its refinery to process heavy oil.    He said the current price differential is only about fivedlrs a barrel.    Willmon indicated that a benchmark crude oil price above 20dlrs would be ideal. But he said currently under study are abroad range of high potential cost-effective technologies forresources recovery, transportation and upgrading of heavy oils,which would permit commercial development despite a lower crudeoil price outlook.    Willmon said these technologies included enhanced recoveryby steam injection and oil-and-water emulsion to reduce theviscocity of the heavy oils so they can flow easily through apipeline. He said such technologies may substantially reducecurrent captial investment and operating costs.    But he emphasized that innovative technology alone may notencourage new investment, that oil prices need to show ameaningful and sustained recovery.   Most of the expenses associated with heavy oils productionis fixed operating costs as in an oil sands project, ratherthan in exploration, according to Robert Smith, Senior VPOperations <Syncrude Canada Ltd>.    While exploration costs for conventional crude oil rangefrom four to nine dlrs a barrel, discovery costs for syntheticcrude from oil sands are nearly zero because the location andnature of the deposit are known, according to Smith.    But the remote location of oil sands deposits mean thateverything required to build and operate the plant must comefrom outside the area.    Willmon also said, "Public policy could best help byproviding financial support to offset the high cost oftechnology developmemt which would help generate projects thatcould survive even at low oil prices for extended periods oftime."    U.S. Energy Secretary John Herrington said, "The ReaganAdministration is firmly committed, without equivocation, tocontinuing our efforts to improve conditions and incentives inthe marketplace that will spur oil and gas exploration anddevelopment." Reuter
OIL IMPORT FEE BILL INTRODUCED IN U.S. HOUSE A bill that would impose an oilimport fee to support a world floor price for oil of 25 dlrs abarrel was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives by12 Congressmen from oil-producing states.    The variable import fee would be dropped if oil prices riseabove 25 dlrs a barrel, sponsors of the bill said.    Revenues from the fee would be used to buy domestic oilfrom stripper wells - those that produce 10 barrels a day orless - at a fixed price of 25 dlrs a barrel. Purchases wouldstop when prices rose above that level.    "Time is running out on the domestic oil and gas industry,"Rep. Joe Barton, R-Texas, said in a statement. "An oil importfee is really just the premium for a national insurancepolicy."    President Reagan opposes an oil import fee, but supportersof the bill said they hoped for action on it before the end ofthe year. Reuter
OFFSHORE OIL DRILLING MOVING INTO DEEPER WATERS Offshore drilling for oil and gas willbe moving into deeper and deeper waters, according to Ronald L.Geer, a consultant with Shell Oil Co. and president of theMarine Technology Society.     Geer told a press conference at the Offshore TechnologyConference that the technology existed to drill exploratorywells in up to 10,000 feet of water.     But he added that as the industry moves more and more tofloating systems as opposed to fixed bottom supportedstructures, the financial risks involved were greater.     He said such projects involved six to nine year timeframes, and there was a "reluctance for people to stick theirnecks too far out."     Shell holds the world record for the deepest exploratorywell, at 6,900 feet, in the Wilmington Canyon in the Atlanticoffshore New Jersey in 1984.     The company is currently drilling a 6,700 foot well in theAtwater Valley in the Gulf of Mexico offshore Louisiana.     Meanwhile, Brazil's Petrobras set a world record forunderwater production when they brought a well in 1,350 feet ofwater offshore Rio de Janeiro state into production in January.     Geer said the industry was particularly interested in theGreen Canyon field offshore Louisiana where a number ofcompanies, including Shell, a unit of Royal Dutch/Shell <RD>,Dupont Co's <DD> Conoco Inc, USX Corp's <X> Marathon Oil Co,Standard Oil Co <SRD> and <Placid Oil Co>, are working, many ofthem testing new deep-water technologies.     Of particular interest is the controversial Penrod-72system being operated by the Dallas-based Hunt brothers wholast year placed Placid Oil under bankruptcy court protectionin order to avoid foreclosures on its valuable oil properties.     They have been seeking the right to use assets to drilloil wells in the Green Canyon through Penrod, arguing thatcontinued development of the project is essential to theirability to get out of their financial crisis.     Earlier this month, the Hunts were granted permission by abankruptcy court to pursue the Green Canyon project.     The Penrod system involves a controversial floatingproduction platform with well heads sitting 1,350 feet down onthe ocean floor. Some 24 wells will be attached to thewellhead, with one satellite well sitting in a record 1,700feet of water.     Geer said he could not comment on the Penrod project,other than to note that it involves so many new technologies,it might have a problem fitting all the pieces together withina specific time frame.     He also said he believed the potential production from theproject could be in line with what the Hunt Brothers haveprojected.     The Hunts' creditor banks have contended the Hunts haveexaggerated the potential of the project.     "They're in the ballpark," he said, of the numbers, addingthat he did not have enough information to comment further. Reuter
NIPPON MINING PLANS MORE U.S. JOINT VENTURES Nippon Mining Co Ltd president YukioKasahara said the state-owned Japanese firm hoped to findadditional joint venture partners to explore for U.S. oilreserves.    "We have to secure the stability of oil for Japan,"Kasahara told reporters at the World Petroleum Congress. "Inthe exploration area I think Japanese companies are interestedin joint ventures."    Nippon Mining, for example, last September signed anagreement with Dupont Co's <DD> Conoco Inc to participate in a135 mln dlr exploration venture that includes six wells on landand 14 offshore Louisiana. The first joint well drilled is inthe Gulf of Mexico's Green Canyon Block 182, a deepwater leasethat Conoco was almost forced to return to the federalgovernment undrilled because of low oil prices.    "At this moment we have no success but we will proceed withConoco. Maybe by the end of the year we will find oil there,"Kasahara said. He said that similar kinds of joint ventures"would be best" for Nippon Mining's oil exploration efforts inthe future.    Kasahara also said Nippon Mining was not planning toacquire any U.S. refining or marketing outlets. "Retail salesin general do not interest the Japanese oil companies," hesaid.    When asked whether he believed world oil prices mightstrengthen later this year, Kasahara said he expected prices tohold steady at today's level.    "Within this year I think the 18 dlrs a barrel willcontinue. But next year I don't know," he said. "For therefining business, stability is important. Whether the price is18 dlrs or 20 dlrs, we don't care."    But encouraging additional upstream efforts may requiremodestly higher oil prices, Kasahara added. "For exploration Ithink 20 dlrs a barrel or 22 dlrs a barrel would bereasonable," he said.    The key factor in determining whether the Organization ofPetroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) would raise its 18 dlr abarrel benchmark price is the ongoing war between Iran andIraq, Kasahara said. Saudi Arabia, he added, was an uncertainelement in the OPEC equation because of its need to maintainrevenues at the same time the weakened U.S. dollar has reducedoil profits.    Nippon Mining, which like all Japanese crude buyers isbenefitting from the drop in the value of the dollar, favorscontinuing to price OPEC crude oil according to U.S. currencyregardless of the dollar-yen relationship, Kasahara said.    "I hope the dollar would strengthen eventually and continueto improve. I would prefer to see the (OPEC) pricing remain indollars," he said. Reuter
RECENT U.S. OIL DEMAND UP 0.6 PCT FROM YEAR AGO U.S. oil demand as measured byproducts supplied rose 0.6 pct in the four weeks ended April 17to 15.91 mln barrels per day (bpd) from 15.82 mln in the sameperiod a year ago, the Energy Information Administration (EIA)said.    In its weekly petroleum status report, the EnergyDepartment agency said distillate demand was off 10.2 pct inthe period to 2.67 mln bpd from 2.98 mln a year earlier.    Gasoline demand averaged 6.94 mln bpd, off 1.8 pct from7.06 mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.17 mlnbpd, off 12.9 pct from 1.34 mln, the EIA said.    Domestic crude oil production was estimated at 8.36 mlnbpd, down 5.9 pct from 8.88 mln a year ago, and gross dailycrude imports (excluding those for the SPR) averaged 3.70 mlnbpd, up 5.2 pct from 3.52 mln, the EIA said.    Refinery crude runs in the four weeks were 12.58 mln bpd,up 2.0 pct from 12.33 mln a year earlier, it said.    In the first 113 days of the year, refinery runs were up2.3 pct to an average 12.36 mln bpd from 12.09 mln in theyear-ago period, the EIA said.    Year-to-date demand for all petroleum products averaged16.26 mln bpd, up 1.6 pct from 15.99 mln in 1986, it said.    So far this year, distillate demand fell 3.1 pct to 3.11mln bpd from 3.21 mln in 1986, gasoline demand was 6.71 mlnbpd, off 0.3 pct from 6.73 mln, and residual fuel demand fell6.2 pct to 1.32 mln bpd from 1.40 mln, the EIA said.    Year-to-date domestic crude output was estimated at 8.38mln bpd, off 7.4 pct from 9.05 mln a year ago, while grosscrude imports averaged 3.86 mln bpd, up 21.1 pct from 3.19 mln,it said. Reuter
CHINESE OFFICIALS SAY DRILLING OUTLOOK BRIGHT China's oil drilling industry is one ofthe few bright spots in the international oilpatch with about1,000 rigs currently working and annual increases of 80-100expected through the end of the century, a Chinese petroleumofficial said.    "In China, production concentrates on the domestic market,and does not depend on the international price of oil," ZhaiGuang Ming, a director of the Chinese Ministry of Petroleum,told Reuters.    Chinese oil sold within the nation's borders is priced atabout one-third the 18 dlr a barrel benchmark price establishedby the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Zhai saidin an interview at the World Petroleum Congress.    The optimism in China is in sharp contrast to the UnitedStates where weak oil prices have prompted a steep fall in thenumber of active rigs from a 1981 peak of 4,500 to only 765last week according to the latest Baker Hughes Co rig count.    At this time, China actually has more rigs in operationthan any other country in the world, said Xianglin Hou, anothermember of the 20-man Chinese delegation at the Houston meeting.    But this does not mean good news for the sagging oilfieldequipment industry in the rest of the world, said Bryan Walman,international sales manager for Reed Tool Co in Houston.    Walman said more than 90 pct of China's drilling activityis on land and under the control of the Chinese governmentwhich requires local manufacture of drilling equipment.    But U.S. and other western nations do provide equipment forChina's fledgling offshore projects as well as participate inthe actual drilling, he said.    Amoco Corp <AN>, for example, has reported a discovery in1,000 feet of water in the South China Sea.    "We're encouraged," said Alfred Munk, manager of Amoco'sforeign affairs, "but we need substantial reserves before wecan do commercial production in a remote area like that."     Zhai estimated that current Chinese oil production of 130mln tonnes a year should rise to total 200 mln tonnes annuallyby the year 2,000.    Chinese crude reserves total 23.6 billion barrels, withultimate resources estimated at 69.3 billion barrels. Reuter
U.S. INTERIOR SECRETARY OPPOSES OIL IMPORT FEE U.S. Interior Secretary DonaldHodel said he does not support an oil import fee as a means tostimulate domestic oil and gas production.    "I am an advocate for incentives for exploration," Hodelsaid, but added, "I do not favor an oil import fee."    "It would inject the federal government so deeply back into the process, we would never get the government out again,and I think that would be in the long term disinterest of thenation," Hodel said in an address to a group of local businessexecutives.    Earlier today, Congressmen from oil producing statesintroduced a bill that would impose a fee on oil imports.    Hodel said he supports drilling incentives, such as repealof the Windfall Profits Tax and Fuel Use Act and deregulationof natural gas.    The secretary also said oil and gas exploration offshoreCalifornia and in the Artic National Wildlife Refuge isnecessary to prevent the U.S. from becoming too dependent onforeign supplies of oil for its energy needs.    Failure to approve such exploration, Hodel said, would leadto greater U.S. dependence on foreign sources of oil.    "In the next two to five years, no matter what we do today,we are very likely to find the U.S becoming 50 pct or moredependent on imports for its oil requirements," Hodel said.    If OPEC were to raise oil prices sharply, Congress wouldlikely act to have the federal government fix gasoline pricesand allocate supplies, Hodel said.    "If they allocate supplies you and I, in the sametwo-to-five year time frame, could well find ourselves sittingback in gas lines," Hodel said.    Exploration for oil and gas in offshore areas and in theArctic National Wildlife Refuge would not jeopardizeenvironmentally sensitive areas, Hodel said.    "We are convinced we can meet and resolve everyenvironmental concern that is raised," Hodel said. Reuter
FTC FINDS 17 BILLION DLR COST IN OIL IMPORT FEE An oil import fee could costconsumers nearly 17 billion dlrs a year and undermine long-termU.S. energy security by leading to a quicker depletion of domestic reserves, a Federal Trade Commission study said.    The study by the FTC's bureau of economics found that afive dlr a barrel tariff on crude oil and gasoline oil importswould increase costs to consumers by 14 to 16.7 billion dlrs ayear.    After weighing the benefits of such a tariff against thecosts, the study found a five dlr a barrel import fee wouldhave a net cost to the economy of 3.6 billion dlrs a year.    Several oil import fee proposals ranging from two to 10dlrs a barrel have been made in Congress in an effort to cutthe federal budget deficit and maintain the momentum for energyconservation programs, which have been hurt by cheaper oil.    But by making foreign oil more expensive, the tariffs wouldreduce oil imports and force greater consumption of domesticoil, which would deplete U.S. reserves faster, the study found.    "Any attempt to increase our energy security by limitingimports will actually reduce our long-run energy security byspeeding the depletion of domestic reserves," the study said.    The five dlr a barrel tariff would also cut domesticpetroleum refiners' profits by 7.5 to 10 billion dlrs a year,increase domestic crude oil producers' profits by about 13billion dlrs a year and raise government revenues by 6.7 to 8.2 billion dlrs a year, the FTC said.    Under the Reagan administration, the FTC has consistentlyopposed government regulation of the oil industry at the stateand federal levels.    "This study backs up my belief that government regulationand interference with competition hurt both the market andconsumers," FTC Chairman Daniel Oliver said in a statement. Reuter
OFFSHORE OIL INDUSTRY WAITING FOR TURNAROUND The depressed offshore oil industry isstill waiting for a turnaround despite increasing optimisimthat world oil prices have stabilized around 18 dlrs a barrel.     "The perception of a turnaround comes from the change inprices," Charles Siess Jr, vice chairman of MarathonManufacturing Co, a subsidiary of USX Corp <X>, and chairman ofthe National Ocean Industries Association, said in a pressbriefing at the Offshore Technology Conference.     "From the level of industry activity, there is noturnaround," he added.     John Huff, president of Oceaneering International Inc<OCER>, was slightly more optimistic. "We are through the lowpart of the cycle -- there's an increase in interest forprojects," he said, adding, "whether it comes to orders, whoknows?"     The oil industry is recovering from last year's dramaticfall in oil prices, from 30 dlrs a barrel in late 1985 to under10 dlrs in mid-1986. Particularly hard hit were the servicecompanies that provide the oil rigs with keys products, such aspipe and tools.     Earlier in the week, Secretary the Interior Donald Hodelannounced -- at the Conference -- the government's newfive-year offshore oil and gas leasing program, proposing 38sales, including tracts in the Gulf Coast, offshore Californiaand in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska.     For the most part, the industry was disappointed with theplan, with most arguing that additional areas should have beenincluded. At the same time, most were supportive of Hodel.     Environmental concerns, particularly in California, hadlobbied strenuously against offshore oil development.     "The (Outer Continental Shelf) leasing program fails totake into account the environmental performance of the oilindustry," said Bill Bradford, executive vice president ofDresser Industries <DI> and president of the PetroleumEquipment Suppliers Association.     Huff quoted National Academy of Science figures showingoffshore rigs contributed only two pct of petroleum pollutionin the oceans, while tankers were responsible for 47 pct andmuniciple dumping 31 pct.     "The OCS is the keystone of the domestic reservedevelopment program," said Siess, adding that with oil importsrising to 50 pct of U.S. oil consumption, the issue was one ofnational security.     Looking ahead, Constantine S. Nicandros, president ofDupont's <DD> Conoco Inc subsidiary, said, "We are more likelyto see a five pct increase in spending this year than thewidely-forecast five pct decrease."     Other optimistic signs include the recent sale in NewOrleans of offshore tracts in the Gulf of Mexico which raised290 mln dlrs against an expected 90 mln.     However, Ronald Tappmeyer, vice chairman of Reading andBates Drilling Co <RB>, said the oversupply of rigs wouldcontinue for the near-term, but added demand fortechnologically advanced rigs would increase in the 1990s.     Much of that demand is seen coming from the move intoicreasingly deeper waters, with the projects becoming ever moreexpensive and needing five to ten years to develop.     Over 50 pct of the sales in New Orleans were for deepwater tracts.     Ronald L. Geer, a consultant with Shell Oil Co, asubsidiary of Royal Dutch/Shell <RD>, and president of theMarine Technology Society, said the technology existed to drillexploratory wells in up to 10,000 feet of water.     Geer said the industry was particularly interested in theGreen Canyon field offshore Louisiana where a number ofcompanies, including Shell, Conoco, USX Corp's Marathon Oil Co,Standard Oil Co <SRD> and Placid Oil Co, are working, many ofthem testing new deep-water technologies involving floatingplatforms. Reuter
PEMEX OFFICIAL SAYS OPEC OUTPUT CRITICAL TO PRICE Crude oil prices could remain around 18dlrs a barrel until the end of the year, but OPEC's decision onoutput at its next meeting would be the critical factor, anofficial of Mexico's state oil company, Petroleos Mexicanos(Pemex), told a group of Japanese businessmen.    Adrian Lajous, Pemex' executive vice president ofinternational trade, said current OPEC output already appearedto be very near the 16.6 mln barrel per day level it set itselffor the third quarter. "Production is surging ahead of what wasoriginally planned, while demand is growing more slowly thanenvisaged a few months ago," he said.    He said OPEC had to look very carefully at what level ofproduction in the third quarter would effectively sustain the18 dlrs price, and that an increase to what had originally beenenvisaged might soften price levels.    The 13-member cartel is scheduled to meet on June 25 inVienna to review its December accord on prices and output.    "I hope OPEC will follow a very conservative attitude interms of volume decisions," Lajous said.    A repetition of what happened last year, when OPEC boostedoutput and sent oil prices tumbling down below 10 dlrs, isalways there as a possibility, he said.    "I hope never again to go through the trauma of 1986. Iexpect other oil exporters have learned their lessons anddiscipline will be maintained," he said.    Lajous said there was still excess supply and as long asthis remains there will be a tendency to instability in oilmarkets, but prices should remain around 18 to 19 dlrs during1987 if output remains under control.    He said Saudi King Fahd's remarks last month, thatincreased production was not so important as long as incomeswould not be affected by the output, were "very relevant andwelcome from such a powerful producer." REUTER
INDIA PLANS MORE BOMBAY OFFSHORE OIL WELLS India's state-owned Oil and Natural GasCommission (ONGC) plans to drill more wells in the Bombayoffshore area, where a well spudded in February this year gaveboth oil and gas, an ONGC spokesman said.    The exploratory well, spudded at a depth of 2,140 metres,yielded 2,000 barrels of oil and 180,000 cubic metres of gasper day, he said.    "The well, one of the four structures drilled in the area 80km north-west of Bombay, indicates good prospects of both oiland gas. We've decided to drill at least three more wells inthere before starting production on a commercial scale."    Production of Bombay High, part of the Bombay offshorefield, has stabilised at around 500,000 barrels per day for thelast two years.    ONGC produced 27.85 mln tonnes of crude in 1986/87 endingMarch, up from 27.51 the previous year. Bombay High accountedfor 20.61 mln tonnes, marginally up from 20.10 the year before.India's total oil output is around 30 mln tonnes.    ONGC has been exploring the Bombay offshore area, developedsince the late 1970s, for more oil as production from BombayHigh has reached a plateau. REUTER
SAUDI RENEGOTIATION OF ARAMCO DEAL MOVING ALONG Saudi Arabia's renegotiation of itscollective agreement with Aramco to purchase oil for thelatter's ex-partners is moving along and should lead to afundamental structural change in the contract, oil industrysources said.    Petroleum Intelligence Weekly, in this Monday's edition,said negotiations are moving along for adjustment of the 1.34mln bpd joint long term agreement at official prices andvolumes and other terms may be rearranged.    The agreement signed in January for the months fromFebruary to June is up for renegotiation.    Under the January contract Aramco was to purchase 1.34 mlnbpd for the four partners allocated among them as Exxon Corp<XON> 440,000 bpd, Texaco Inc <TX> 350,000 bpd, Mobil Corp<MOB> and Chevron Corp <CHV> 550,000 bpd between them.    But an overlifting by Texaco Inc in the first quarterallowed other companies like Exxon Corp to underlift itsobligations under the contract    PIW said that that one alternative under consideration isto revert to four individual contracts rather than a collectiveagrement.    John Lichtblau, director of the Petroleum Industry ResearchFoundation Inc said that renegotiation of the pact was more ofa formality as the Saudis have each company on a separateschedule although separate agreements with the companies wouldfavor one on one negotiations and ensure that contractedliftings occur .    "The companies will probably follow the Saudi wants withinlimits as they do not want to antagonize them for the longhaul," he said.    Lichtblau said that the renegotiations would most likelyconcentrate on volume rather than price.    Saudi displeasure with the agreement has long been notedand in April industry publications said that renegotiation werebeing sought, a fact later confirmed by Reuters with Aramco.    Aramco Corp was formerly owned by Chevron Corp <CHV>, ExxonCorp <XON>, Mobil Corp <MOB> and Texaco Inc <TX> but is nowowned by Saudi Arabia which bought its assets although theex-partners have various agreements with Saudi Arabia. Reuter
BORDEN <BN> TO ACQUIRE MAJOR PASTA MAKER Borden Inc said it is acquiring <PrinceCo Inc> and three companies producing grocery products for 180mln dlrs.    Borden said the four companies are expected to have 1987sales totaling 230 mln dlrs.    It said Prince, a Lowell, Mass., producer of pasta andItalian food sauces, is expected to account for 210 mln dlrs ofthis total. This year's sales of Borden pasta -- by the 13regional brands and the premium Creamette brand distributed ona nearly national basis -- are expected to toal 285 mln dlrs,it said.    Borden said the other three companies being acquired areSteero Bouillon of Jersey City, N.J., Blue Channel Inc, aBeaufort, S.C., producer of canned crabmeat, and the cannedshrimp products line of DeJean Packing Inc of Biloxi, Miss.    Borden also said the divestment of three operations withabout 50 mln dlrs a year in sales is expected to produce nearly45 mln dlrs in cash for use toward the purchase of newbusinesses.    It said the sale of Polyco of Cincinnati, Ohio, which makespolyvinyl acetate emulsions, to Rohm and Haas Co <ROH> wasannounced by the buyer last month.       Borden said the divestment of two producers of toy modelsand hobby items -- Heller in France and Humbrol in England --is in process. Reuter
COMPROMISE SEEN LIKELY OVER CONOCO-STATOIL DISPUTE Norway is expected to seek a compromisesolution to defuse a row between Den Norske Stats OljeselskapA/S <STAT.OL> (Statoil) and Conoco Norge A/S over which firmwill operate the Heidrun oil field, government sources said.    The sources, who asked not to be named, said the governmentwill likely recommend that Conoco be allowed to continue as thefield's operator through the development phase, with Statoiltaking over only after production starts in the early 1990s.    Oil Minister Arne Oeien told Reuters the government hadtoday discused the Heidrun matter but that no final decisionhad been taken and several questions remained unresolved.    It was unlikely the government would announce its decisionon Heidrun operatorship until after Thursday's cabinet meetingand after discussing a proposed solution with both companies,the sources added.    This spring Norway's state-owned oil company Statoilexercised an option in the Heidrun field exploration licensethat, if approved by the government, would allow it to relieveConoco as Heidrun operator, a move sharply criticised byConoco.    Heidrun is often cited by the government and industry asthe most likely candidate for the first field developmentproject on the Haltenbanken exploration tract off centralNorway. Reuter
U.S. GULF OF MEXICO RIG COUNT CLIMBS TO 38.9 PCT Utilization of offshore mobile rigs inthe Gulf of Mexico climbed by 2.1 pct last week to 38.9 pct,reflecting a total of 91 working rigs, Offshore Data Servicessaid.    One year ago, the Gulf of Mexico utilization rate was 32.5pct. Offshore Data Services said some drilling contractors hadreported recent increases of about 1,000 dlrs a day on largejackup rigs, which now command rates of 11,000 to 12,000 dlrs aday.    In the European/Mediterranean area the rig utilization raterose 0.6 pct to 53.6 pct, against 67.3 pct one year ago.    Worldwide rig utilization rose by 1.2 pct to 57.7 pct,reflecting a net increase of eight working rigs. Offshore DataServices said a total of 419 rigs were in use worldwide and 307were idled last week. Reuter
BAKER HUGHES' <BHI> U.S. RIG COUNT FALLS TO 758 The U.S. drilling rig count fell by fourlast week to a total of 758, against 723 working rigs at thistime last year, Baker Hughes Inc said.    In Canada, the weekly rig count rose 19 to 100, compared to46 working rigs last year.    Among individual states, the steepest declines were inOklahoma and Louisiana which lost eight and seven,respectively. Drilling increases were reported by Michigan, upby five rigs, and Ohio and Pennsylvania which each rose bythree. Baker Hughes said the total of 758 working rigs in theUnited States included 84 rigs working in offshore waters. Reuter
REAGAN HINTS U.S. WANTS HELP IN PATROLLING GULF President Reagan said he would discussthe Mideast Gulf situation with allied leaders at next week'sVenice economic summit and hinted he would seek their help inpreserving free navigation.    In a speech prepared for delivery as the United States madeplans to protect 11 Kuwaiti oil tankers from Iranian attack,Reagan said the American people were aware that "it is not ourinterests alone that are being protected."    Saying that allied dependence on gulf oil was no secret,Reagan declared, "During the upcoming summit in Venice, we willbe discussing the common security interests shared by thewestern democracies in the MIDEAST Gulf.    "The future belongs to the brave. Free men should not cowerbefore such challenges, and they should not expect to standalone."    Reagan will meet the leaders of Britain, France, WestGermany, Italy, Canada and Japan at the economic summit, whichwill take place in Venice June 8-10.       The 13th annual top-level meeting of the major industrialdemocracies will take place against a backdrop of risingcongressional concern over Reagan's plan to protect gulfshipping and demands that the allies do more.     These concerns were heightened by the May 17 Iraqi missileattack on the U.S. frigate Stark which killed 37 seamen.    "They died while guarding a chokepoint of freedom, deterringaggression and reaffirming America's willingness to protect itsvital interests," Reagan said.       In a pre-summit speech celebrating the 40th anniversary ofthe Marshall Plan, Reagan, who spoke to an audience of foreignaffairs experts, also pledged to push for economic expansion byWest Germany and Japan to bolster the world trading system.    "While the vibrancy of the U.S. economy has contributedenormously to the world expansion, preserving a growing worldeconomy is the business of every member of the world tradingcommunity," he said.       "It will be made clear, especially to our friends in Japanand the Federal Republic of Germany, that growth-orienteddomestic policies are needed to bolster the world tradingsystem on which they depend."    Reagan coupled this appeal with a call for compliance withallied accords on exchange rate stability.    "Economic policy decisions made last year in Tokyo and atthis year's meetings of Group of Seven finance ministers inParis and in Washington cannot be ignored or forgotten," hesaid. "The commitments made at these meetings need to betranslated into action." Reuter
BASIN PIPELINE TEXAS/OKLA BORDER WASHED OUT BY FLOODS SOME 300,000 BPD CRUDE A Interest rates on commodity loansdisbursed by the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) this monthwill carry a 6-7/8 pct interest rate, the U.S. AgricultureDepartment said.    That is up from the May rate of 6-1/4 pct and reflects theinterest rate charged the CCC by the U.S. Treasury in June,USDA noted. Reuter
MAJOR U.S. OIL PIPELINE SHUT DOWN BY FLOODS Flooding in the Red River on theTexas/Oklahoma border has shut down the Basin Pipeline, a24-inch pipeline that transports as much as 300,000 barrels perday of sweet and sour crudes from Texas to Cushing, Okla, aTexaco Pipeline Co spokesman confirmed.    "The water is rushing by so fast that we can't get anydivers down to assess the damage but there is some possibilitythat the pipeline could be up by the end of the week," a companysource said.    The pipeline transmits roughly two-thirds sour crude andone-third sweet crude oil from the Midland, Texas region.    Texaco sources said that if the pipeline service isrestored by Friday there would be little problem in restoringoil which has been lost to the flood.    "But if the pipeline is down more than 10 days it will bedifficult to make up without prorationing and we would not liketo proration this pipeline, if we don't have to."    The Basin Pipeline is jointly owned by Atlantic RichfieldCorp <ARC>, Shell Oil Co, a subsidiary of the Royal Dutch/ShellGroup <RD> and Texaco Inc <TX>, which is the pipeline'soperator.     Peter Beutel, analyst at Elders Futures Inc, said crudeoil futures contracts on New York Mercantile Exchange rose tonew highs this afternoon following news of the pipeline break.    July crude futures of West Texas Intermediate traded up to19.60 dlrs a barrel, a rise of more than 20 cts.    Cash market prices also firmed on the news with sellers ofWTI raising offers to 19.60 dlrs a barrel.    Sour crudes, which would be most affected by the pipelineshutdown, however, were slow to react to the news with WestTexas Sour and Alaska North Slope holding 50 cts to one dlr abarrel below WTI, respectively.    Dan Stevens, manager of public and government affairs atTexaco, said the company hopes to fix the pipeline in five daysbut that will depend on when the water level of the Red Riverrecedes. There is already evidence that the water level isdropping and it appears the rain has stopped in the areaaffecting the pipeline, Stevens said.    He said the segment of the pipeline that was damaged wasunderground and at a distance from the Red River that flooded.The pipeline runs over the Red River and under the subsoilnearby, according to Stevens. He said some of this subsoil wasapparently washed away.       The potential for environmental damage is being downplayedat this time despite the volume of oil that runs through thisline.    Texaco's Stevens said that aerial surveillance has notfound any crude on the water in the river or in Lake Texoma,which is nearby. Reuter
CONGRESSMAN SAYS U.S. UNPREPARED FOR OIL CUTOFF Rep. Mike Synar said today that whilePresident Reagan is ready to use military force to protectKuwait tankers in the Gulf, the United States is ill-preparedat home to deal with a new energy crisis.    Synar, Democrat of Oklahoma, made his remarks in commentson a study by the General Accounting Office (GAO) on the U.S.participation in the 1985 test of the emergency oil sharingprogram of the International Energy Agency.    The IEA, an alliance of 21 oil consuming countries, wasformed after the 1973-74 Arab oil embargo to find ways to dealwith any future oil cutoff.    Synar said, "the president is prepared to take militaryaction to protect Kuwaiti oil tankers but has been unwilling totake less dangerous, equally-important action to prepare ournation for the next energy crisis."    Reagan said the U.S. military would protect Kuwaiti oilersto assure the West of a continuing supply of Middle East oil,increasingly being threatened by the Iranian-Iraqi war. Synar,who asked for the GAO report after criticism of U.S. action ina previous IEA test, said the United States successfullyadvocated a test limited to training participants in oilsharing procedures and the system's mechanical aspects. Reuter
TOTAL PETROLEUM <TPN> SHUTS TEXAS PIPELINES Total Petroleum NA <TPN> shut downseveral small crude oil pipelines operating near theTexas/Oklahoma border last Friday as a precaution againstdamage from local flooding, according to Gary Zollinger,manager of operations.    Total shut a 12-inch line that runs across the OuachitaRiver from Wynnewood to Ardmore with a capacity of 62,000 bpdas well as several smaller pipelines a few inches wide withcapacities of several thousand bpd or less, Zollinger said.    The Basin Pipeline, a major pipeline running 300,000 bpd,run by a consortium of other oil companies, was closed today.    One other small pipeline that Total also closed has acapacity of 3,000 to 4,000 bpd and crosses the Red River inFargo, Texas, Zollinger said.    He said the closed pipelines run under river water andcould be damaged as the flooded rivers erode the river banksand expose the piping.    Zollinger said Total is waiting for the river waters torecede before they reactivate the pipelines. Reuter
SOUTH KOREA INCREASES DUTY ON CRUDE IMPORTS South Korea has increased its duty on crudeoil imports to 4.29 dlrs a barrel from 3.29 dlrs, effectivetoday, the energy ministry said.    The duty, to raise funds for special energy projects, wasadjusted after average crude import prices rose to 16.85 dlrs abarrel in April, from 16.65 dlrs in March and 13.08 dlrs inApril 1986, ministry officials said.    A separate 24.5 pct import tax on crude oil is unchanged. REUTER
JAPAN READY TO USE DIPLOMACY FOR GULF SECURITY Japan was ready to use diplomacy to helpmaintain the security of the Gulf, Prime Minister YasuhiroNakasone said.    But he told reporters Japan should not cut its lines ofcommunication with Iran and Iraq because its policy was to takea broad political stance. Officials of the foreign ministrysaid Japan had maintained good relations with both Iran andIraq, which have been at war since September 1980.    Last week Nakasone ruled out Japanese military or financialhelp to patrol the waters of the Gulf. About 60 pct of Japan'scrude oil passes through the waterway.    President Reagan said yesterday the threat to oil routes inthe Gulf from attacks by Iran and Iraq was high on the agendafor next week's G-7 summit in Venice.    Reagan has approved plans for the United States to step upits naval presence in the Gulf despite congressionalexpressions of concern and he has called on U.S. Allies to helpmaintain freedom of navigation.    Japan's constitution prevents its armed forces from beingdeployed overseas. Nakasone has said that Washingtonunderstands this problem. REUTER
MEES NEWSLETTER SAYS OMAN OFFERS OIL DISCOUNTS Oman has granted term crude oilcustomers retroactive discounts from official prices of 30 to38 cents per barrel on liftings made during February, March andApril, the weekly newsletter Middle East Economic Survey (MEES)said.     MEES said the price adjustments, arrived at throughnegotiations between the Omani oil ministry and companiesconcerned, are designed to compensate for the differencebetween market-related prices and the official price of 17.63dlrs per barrel adopted by non-OPEC Oman since February. REUTER
SANTOS TO ACQUIRE TOTAL EXPLORATION AUSTRALIA Santos Ltd <STOS.S> said it would buy<Total Exploration Australia Pty Ltd> from <Total Holdings(Australia) Pty Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Total-CieFrancaise des Petroles <TPN.PA>.    Total Exploration had interests ranging from 18.75 to 25pct in four blocks in permit ATP259P in south-west Queensland,Santos said in a statement.    The Santos group stakes will rise to between 52.5 and 70pct of the four ATP259P blocks as a result of the purchase. Theprice was not disclosed.    Santos said a number of oil and gas fields have beendiscovered in the Total Exploration areas and that it regardsthem as having very good prospects for further discoveries.    Total's reserves amount to 75 billion cubic feet of gas and5.5 mln barrels of oil and condensate, it said.    It said it will promote a vigorous exploration program inthe areas for the rest of 1987 and in the future.    The acquisition is the latest in a series by Santos as partof a program to expand from its origins in the South AustralianCooper Basin. REUTER
SAUDI ARABIA WILL NOT AGREE "MAD" OIL PRICE RISE Saudi Arabia's Oil Minister Hisham Nazersaid Riyadh would not agree to a cut in oil prices and wouldnot accept a "mad" increase that would drive consumers away.    He told al-Riyadh newspaper, "Saudi Arabia follows abalanced petroleum policy. It does not approve of a decrease inprices from current levels and it also does not accept a madincrease that would drive consumers away and make them try andfind alternative sources (for energy)."    OPEC agreed last December to cut production after worldprices hit new lows in 1986. They agreed on a pricing systemaimed to stabilise the market around 18 dlrs a barrel.    OPEC is scheduled to meet in Vienna on June 25, where itwill review its current oil price and production policy.    Saudi Arabia's King Fahd said last month that he wanted oilprices to remain stable for the next two years.    Saudi Arabia is the architect of the current pricing andproduction pact, which is backed by Kuwait and the UAE. Thecurrent pact set a production ceiling for first half 1987 of15.8 mln bpd, and implemented fixed prices based on an 18 dlrsa barrel average. REUTER
SAUDI ARABIA OPPOSES DRASTIC CHANGE IN OIL PRICE Saudi Arabia's Oil Minister Hisham Nazersaid Riyadh would not agree to a cut in oil prices and wouldnot accept a "mad" increase that would drive consumers away.    He told al-Riyadh newspaper, "Saudi Arabia follows abalanced petroleum policy. It does not approve of a decrease inprices from current levels and it also does not accept a madincrease that would drive consumers away and make them try andfind alternative sources (for energy)."    OPEC agreed last December to cut production after worldprices hit new lows in 1986. They agreed on a pricing systemaimed to stabilize the market around 18 dlrs a barrel.    OPEC is scheduled to meet in Vienna on June 25, where itwill review its current oil price and production policy.    Saudi Arabia's King Fahd said last month that he wanted oilprices to remain stable for the next two years.    Saudi Arabia is the architect of the current pricing andproduction pact, which is backed by Kuwait and the UAE. Thecurrent pact set a production ceiling for first half 1987 of15.8 mln bpd, and implemented fixed prices based on an 18 dlrsa barrel average. REUTER
U.S. ENERGY SECRETARY SEES HIGHER OIL PRICES Energy Secretary Donald Hodel said heexpects oil prices to rise significantly by the year 2000,probably to around 33 dlrs a barrel in current dollars.    "I do anticipate a significant increase (by 2000).Thirty-three dlrs a barrel is not unreasonable," Hodel told theSenate Energy Committee.    Hodel said the loss of some domestic oil production throughthe shutdown of stripper (10 barrels a day or less) wellsbecause of low prices was probably permanent. He said he wasalso concerned by the decline in domestic oil exploration.    Hodel urged Congress to approve oil exploration in section1002 of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska. He saidgeologic condtions in the area were favorable for the discoveryof oil fields equal to those in nearby Prudhoe Bay. Reuter
LUKMAN SEES STABLE OIL PRICE FOR NEXT COUPLE YEARS The current crude oil price of between18 and 20 dlrs a barrel will remain stable over the next coupleof years, rising only one to two dlrs a barrel per annum tokeep up with inflation, OPEC President Rilwanu Lukman said.    Lukman, who was speaking during talks with Swedish tradeofficials, said the stable price depended upon output restraintby both OPEC and non-OPEC oil producers, Swedish governmentofficials said.    They said Lukman, who is also Nigerian oil minister, madethe remarks whilst talking about the connection between ThirdWorld debt and industrialised nations.    Crude oil output controls did not necessarily mean higherenergy bills for the world's industrial nations, Lukman said.    Although very low oil prices, such as those seen around thebeginning of the year, may appear beneficial for the industrialcountries that depend on imported energy, they would only leadto wastage and overdependence on the fuel in the long term, hesaid.    This in turn would bring a swing back to extremely highprices, he added.    Sweden, heavily dependent on imported oil, suffered a majorcrisis in the mid-1970s, when oil prices spiralled. REUTER
ENERGY SECRETARY SEES HIGHER OIL PRICES Energy Secretary Donald Hodel said heexpects oil prices to rise significantly by the year 2000,probably to around 33 dlrs a barrel in current dollars.    "I do anticipate a significant increase (by 2000).Thirty-three dlrs a barrel is not unreasonable," Hodel told theSenate Energy Committee.    Hodel said the loss of some domestic oil production throughthe shutdown of stripper (10 barrels a day or less) wellsbecause of low prices was probably permanent. He said he wasalso concerned by the decline in domestic oil exploration.    Hodel urged Congress to approve oil exploration in section1002 of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska. He saidgeologic condtions in the area were favorable for the discoveryof oil fields equal to those in nearby Prudhoe Bay.    "The area could contain potentially recoverable oilresources of more than 9.2 billion barrels, an amount nearlyequal to the Prudhoe Bay oil field, which currently providesalmost one-fifth of U.S. domestic production," Hodel said.    He said production from the new section could begin aboutthe time Prudhoe Bay production begins to decline in 2000without endangering caribou or other wildlife in the area. Reuter
SMALL RISE SEEN IN U.S. GASOLINE INVENTORIES U.S. analysts expect the AmericanPetroleum Institute's weekly report on oil inventories to showa slight build in U.S. stocks of gasoline for the week endedMay 29, oil traders and analysts said.    While the consensus is for an increase, a few would notrule out the possibility of an decline. Traders said thatbarring any surprises in tonight's report, they expect thereport to be neutral to bearish for oil prices.    Heating oil stocks are also likely to build and runs to besteady to slightly higher, which could add pressure on oilprices, the analysts said.    Crude oil was seen likely to build assuming importscontinue at relatively high levels.    Analysts expect gasoline stocks to rise 500,000 to two mlnbarrels above the 234 mln reported for May 22.    Peter Beutel, oil analyst with Elders Futures inc, wholooks for a build said, "We have had five weeks of gasolinedemand at 7.3 mln bpd or more and it is likely to taper off tobetween 6.7-7.0 mln bpd, which should make stocks build. Demandwould have to stay above 7.0 mln bpd to have a draw," he added.    Rising demand is why oil traders and analysts expect a drawin stocks of about of about one mln barrels.       The U.S. Energy Information Administration in its latestreport for the four weeks ending may 22 said that gasolinedemand was up 4.4 pct to 7.3 mln bpd from the previous year.    But analysts said hopes of reduced stocks is likely tofounder on increased runs in refineries, which could be up 0.3pct above May 22's 81.2 pct capacity operated.    Such an increase would raise runs about 100,000 bpd and addto U.S. stocks.    But some analysts said that refiners may have held refineryruns.    Heating oil stocks were also expected to build between700,000 barrels and one mln from the 96 mln barrel levelreported last week, but a rise in distillate stocks wasdiscounted as having a market impact at this time.    "A build is seasonal now and not out of line with last year,"one futures analyst said.    Analysts said they also expect crude oil stocks to buildbetween 1.5 mln barrels and three mln from the 325 mln barrelsreported by API for the week of may 22.    The consensus appears for about two mln barrels to be addedto the nation's inventory. Reuter
MAJOR U.S. PIPELINE MAY BE CLOSED SEVERAL DAYS The operator of a major U.S. crude oilpipeline, shutdown because of flood damage, said it may beseveral days before repairs are made and the system isfunctioning again.    Dan Stevens, manager of public and government affairs atTexaco Inc <TX>, operator of the pipeline through itssubsidiary Texaco Pipeline Co, said the company hopes repairswill begin in about five days and expects it to take severalmore days to complete.    "At this point we are lining up what we know we need, to getthe job done," Stevens said, adding that the timing for repairswill depend on the damage to the pipeline which is difficult toassess because of flooding on the Red River.    The pipeline was shipping roughly 225,000 barrels of crudeoil per day, or about 55 pct of its capacity during the 30 dayspreceding its shutdown on Saturday, Stevens said.    The pipeline was shut down from Cushing, Okla, to WitchitaFalls, Kan, on Saturday due to an undetermined leak at the RedRiver crossing, near the Oklahoma/Texas border, because ofsevere rains, a spokesman for Texaco said.    Stevens said it was reasonable to suggest the pipelinecould operate at full capacity when it reopens in order to makeup for the shortfull but cautioned they will talk withcustomers to determine their requirements.    Oil analysts and traders said they were not sure if the shutdown will continue to raise U.S. oil prices.    Monday, after Texaco confirmed that the pipeline had beenclosed, West Texas Intermediate crude in the spot market and onNew York Mercantile Exchange's energy futures complex rose 20cts a barrel.    Stevens said it was reasonable to suggest the pipelinecould operate at full capacity when it reopens in order to makeup for the shortfull but cautioned they will talk withcustomers to determine their requirements.    Oil analysts and traders said they were not sure if the shutdown will continue to raise U.S. oil prices.    Monday, after Texaco confirmed that the pipeline had beenclosed, West Texas Intermediate crude in the spot market and onNew York Mercantile Exchange's energy futures complex rose 20cts a barrel. Reuter
OVERSEAS <OSG> SEES OPEC QUOTAS KEY TO RATES Overseas Shipholding Group Inc presidentMorton Hyman said if oil production by OPEC rises during thesecond half of 1987, freight rates for tankers should riseaccordingly.    Hyman, delivering a speech at the annual shareholdersmeeting, said international tanker markets were generally weakthroughout the first quarter, but since the end of March OPECoil production has picked up. The result has been a modestimprovement in tanker rates.    Overseas said 73 pct of its fleet handles liquid cargo.       He said tanker requirements decreased in September 1986 asOPEC production quotas dropped and levels of oil stocks rose.    For the first quarter 1987, the company reported net incomeof 10.3 mln dlrs, or 40 cts per share, compared to 9.3 mlndlrs, or 36 cts per share, for the comparable quarter a yearago.    The company reported net income for 1986 of 37.3 mln dlrs,or 1.45 dlrs per share.       "The improvement in the company's 1986 results, after fouryears of declining earnings, reflects a sharp, albeittemporary, rise in freight rates in the international tankermarkets last summer," Hyman said.    He said the Alaskan oil trade continues to be the principalsource of employment for its U.S. flag tanker fleet, whichrepresents approximately 15 pct of the company's tonnage.    Overseas owns and operates 67 vessels. Reuter
ASAMERA <ASM> COMPLETES REFINERY SALE Asamera Inc said wholly ownedAsamera Oil (U.S.) Inc concluded the 25.25 mln U.S. dlr sale ofits Denver refinery to Total Petroleum North America Ltd.    In addition, Total is purchasing crude oil and refinedproduct inventories at market value, Asamera said. Reuter
API SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS UP 2.85 MLN BBLS, GASOLINE OFF 2.37 MLN, CRUDE OFF 1 President Reagan is to nominateKenneth Rogers, president of the Stevens Institute ofTechnology, to be a member of the Nuclear RegulatoryCommission, the White House said.    Rogers, 58, would succeed James Asseltine for a five-yearterm expiring June 30, 1992. He has has been president of theStevens Institute, in Hoboken, N.J., since 1972. He waspreviously acting provost and dean of faculty. Reuter
AMOCO <AN> SAYS DOME <DMP> BUY GOOD FOR CANADA Amoco Corp's wholly owned AmocoCanada Petroleum Co Ltd said its proposed 5.22-billion-Canadian-dlr acquisition of Dome Petroleum Ltd will benefitCanada just like the foreign investment that made possiblecommercial development of Alberta's oilsands.    Amoco Canada president T. Don Stacy told an oilsandsconference that "Amoco Canada has presented the solution to theDome problem, and we're investing our confidence, dollars anddetermination to make that solution work."    The Amoco buyout of debt-burdened Dome has angered Canadiannationalists, who want a Canadian buyer for Dome.    Stacy described Amoco Canada's previously reported shareoffer proposal as a chance to increase Canadian ownership ofthe country's oil and gas industry, now at about 50 pct.    He reiterated that Amoco planned virtually no layoffs ofDome employees. He also reaffirmed that Amoco would reinvest inAmoco Canada-Dome properties all available cash flow for fiveyears after the acquisition. Reuter
U.S. SENATE TEAM WANTS MULTINATIONAL GULF FORCE The leaders of a U.S. Senate team probingAmerican defense strategy in the MidEast Gulf said they favoreda multinational force to keep oil flowing through the waterway.    Sen. John Glenn and John Warner, in Kuwait as part of aGulf Arab tour, said at a news conference that top officials inthe area appeared ready to discuss extra facilities needed ifthe U.S. upgraded its defense role.    The Senate team next heads for the United Arab Emirates,their last stop on a fact-finding mission prompted by Reaganadministration plans to let half of Kuwait's 22-tanker fleetfly the U.S. flag.    Glenn and Warner said the U.S., Britain and France, shouldexplore the possibility of a unified Gulf force.    "The American ships, the British ships, the French ships nowtalk to each other and all we've got to do is formalize thisarrangement," Warner said.    Glenn said a multinational force could be effectivelydeployed within 24 hours of a decision.    Glenn voiced a preference for a United Nationsmultinational force, or failing that, an American, British,French force with cooperation from the Gulf Arab states.    Warner voiced concern that the Soviet Union might use thesituation in the Gulf to raise its presence. "And,unequivocally, all GCC states we have talked with, have saidthat would not be in the interests of the Arabian peninsula." Reuter
COLOMBIAN GROUP SUSPENDS BOMBINGS OF PIPELINES A Colombian group announced the suspensionof its bombings of oil pipelines pending the government's levyof a social tax on foreign petroleum companies and an 800 mlndlrs fine on the Occidental Petroleum Corp <OXY>.    There was no indication the government would meet theconditions demanded by the leftist National Liberation Army(ELN).    According to the state oil firm, ECOPETROL, the ELN carriedout 72 attacks on petroleum pipelines between 1984 and 1986.    The assaults, the most recent launched two months ago, havecaused an estimated total of 50 mln dlrs in damage.    In a communique, the ELN said it would demand a tax of onedollar per barrel of crude oil pumped by foreign firms as acondition for maintaining its suspension of the assaults.    Foreign oil firms pump an average of 225,083 barrels perday in Colombia. Colombian tax authorities are investigatingOccidental, a U.S.-owned firm, for alleged tax evasion.    If the charges are proven, the firm could face a fine of upto 800 mln dlrs. The ELN demands the government charge thepenalty. Reuter
EC WATCHING GULF WAR DEVELOPMENTS The European Community (EC) shouldwatch very carefully for any developments in the Gulf War andtheir consequences on the oil market, EC Energy CommissionerNicolas Mosar said today.    Speaking two weeks after a U.S. warship was attacked in theGulf, Mosar warned, "An escalation in the Gulf would increasetensions in the oil market."    "But I do not want to be alarmist," he told a news conferenceafter an EC energy ministers meeting in Luxembourg.    He said the volume of EC oil imports from the Gulf haddeclined to around 31 pct of total oil imports in the firstthree months of 1987 against 35 pct in the same period lastyear. "There are also other potential sources of supplies in theworld," he added.    The issue of Gulf oil imports was not discussed at theministers' meeting, he added.    A EC committee of national experts in the so-called oilsupply group would discuss Gulf oil supplies at their bi-annualmeeting on June 19, he said.    But any major decisions would have to be reserved for ECforeign ministers, diplomats said.    West European nations have so far shown little enthusiasmfor backing a U.S. plan to give military protection to merchantships in the Gulf which could help insure the safety of oilsupplies. Reuter
BASIN PIPELINE REOPENS IN U.S. SOUTHWEST The Basin Pipeline in the SouthwesternU.S. reopened yesterday with the expectation that all crude oilshipments for June will arrive on schedule, according to aspokesman for Texaco Inc. <TX>, operator of the pipelinethrough its Texaco Pipeline Co subsidiary.    "We project the pipeline will make all June crude shipmentsscheduled," said Dan Stevens, the spokesman.     The pipeline reopened Sunday evening around 1900 EDT,carrying an equivalent 280,000 barrels of crude oil per daycompared with an average 225,000 bpd shipped during the 30 daysbefore its shutdown on May 30, according to Stevens.    Stevens said the increased shipments will make up for allcrude oil scheduled to arrive in Cushing, Oklahoma via thepipeline by the end of June.    The pipeline was shut May 30 because of an apparent rupturecaused by flooding of the Red River, near the Texas/Oklahomaborder. It was expected to resume service Saturday but risingwaters of the river, which had recently receded, delayed thereopening, Stevens said. Approximately 1100 feet of new 24-inchsteel piping was installed under the river to replace damagedpiping, according to Stevens. Reuter
PREMIERS, GOVERNORS PUSH EAST COAST DEVELOPMENT The premiers of Canada'seastern provinces and the governors of America's New Englandstates urged development of Canada's offshore oil and gasfields and construction of a pipeline from Nova Scotia to NewEngland.    Newfoundland premier Brian Peckford, speaking to the annualconference of New England and eastern Canadian leaders, saiddevelopment would prevent a repetition of the energy crisis ofthe early 1970s.    The group also agreed to discuss energy and security ofsupply next spring.    Drilling off Canada's Atlantic coast has stalled sinceworld oil prices began tumbling two years ago. The resolutionsupporting a natural gas pipeline from Nova Scotia to NewEngland has been on the agenda for six years, and this is thesixth year it has been approved.    The two-day conference ends tomorrow. Reuter
HEDGERS INCREASE SHARE OF U.S. CRUDE OIL FUTURES Commercial hedgers increased theirstake in sales of U.S. crude oil and heating oil futures duringMay, according to a U.S. federal agency report.    Trade hedgers accounted for 64.7 pct of open shortpositions in May, compared with 58.2 pct in April, and added5,700 new sales in May, while liquidating almost 11,000purchases, the report said.    Speculators, in contrast, saw a decline in share of crudeoil shorts in May. May spec shorts totaled 13.6 pct versus 25.6pct in April. The report was prepared by the Commodity FuturesTrading Commission.                                        In heating oil futures, commercial users accounted for68.7 pct of short postions in May versus 58.2 pct in April andadded 311 new short positions.    Gasoline futures saw little change in the percentage ofshort or long positions held by commercial users, speculators,or small traders, according to the CFTC report. Trade users accounted for 72.5 pct of short gasoline futures positions inMay, compared with a revised 75.7 pct in April. New York Mercantile Exchange Commitments of traders, May 29, 1987             SPECULATOR   SPREADERS HEDGERS   TOTAL           LONG SHRT LONG SHRT LONG SHRT LONG SHRT HEATING   16.1  5.7 2.5  2.5  49.7 68.7 68.2 76.8  OIL      SMALL TRADERS - long 31.8 short 23.2 UNLEADED  10.8  4.0 7.0  7.0  64.4 72.5 82.3 83.6  GAS      SMALL TRADERS - long 17.7 short 16.4 CRUDE     15.1 13.6 5.5  5.5  61.2 64.7 81.8 83.8  OIL      SMALL TRADERS - long 18.2 short 16.2 Reuter
ECUADOR ACCEPTS EXPLORATION BIDS Ecuador is accepting bids from companieswishing to explore for crude oil in a 1.2-million-hectare areain the southeast of the country, a spokesman for the EcuadorianState Oil Company (CEPE) said.    The spokesman said companies have until October 15 topresent their bids and until the middle of next year to signcontracts.    Competitors may bid for six alternative 200,000-hectareareas, in the southeast forest bordering Peru and in thewestern coastal plain around the Pacific.     Petrocanada will start by drilling two exploratory wellsin a 200,000 hectare area. Reuter
SOUTH KOREAN 1986 ENERGY USE RISES NINE PCT South Korea's energy consumption rose ninepct to 61.07 mln tonnes of oil equivalent (toe) in 1986 from56.0 mln in 1985, energy ministry officials told Reuters.    They said oil accounted for 46.7 pct of energy consumptionin 1986 against 48.5 pct in 1985. Anthracite accounted for 21.0pct against 21.5 pct, bituminous coal 16.5 pct against 17.3 pctand nuclear power 11.6 pct against 7.5 pct.    The amount spent on energy imports in 1986 was 4.53 billiondlrs against 6.54 billion dlrs in 1985, they said, with much ofthe difference between the two years due to changes in theprice of oil. REUTER
OPEC OFFICIAL SAYS CARTEL HAS REGAINED LEADERSHIP OPEC has regained its former role asprice-setter in the oil market following last year's price war,acting OPEC Secretary General Fadhil al-Chalabi said.    But he said he expects no short-term rise in demand forOPEC oil, adding that market stability will mean a continuedsacrifice for the 13 OPEC member countries.    Al-Chalabi, speaking at a university here yesterday, saidthe December 1986 conference at which OPEC set an 18 dlr perbarrel reference price gave the market a signal that theproducers' group was serious.    "It (OPEC) has no choice but to defend the price and thishas restored its credibility," said al-Chalabi, who is inCaracas for a meeting of the OPEC Fund Board of Governors.    Al-Chalabi said OPEC members have not exceeded theproduction quotas which took effect on February 1 and spotmarket prices are now near or above official OPEC prices.    Before the December conference OPEC faced a major and basicdilemma which led to the loss of its leadership role, he said."The question was, what should OPEC do? Defend the price andrisk losing its market share? Or defend its market share andlet the price drop?" he asked.    "OPEC has chosen to stabilise the price. But the question ishow long will it be willing to keep up this painful exercise?" he said.    Al-Chalabi said that despite OPEC's success in shoring upprices and achieving discipline regarding quotas, he saw noquick end to restraint in production.    He also said he foresaw no increase in demand for OPEC oilbecause increased non-OPEC production, combined withconservation and the use of alternative energy sources, hascaused changes in the market which will not easily be reversed. REUTER
ARAB HEAVY TERM CRUDE SUPPLIES TO JAPAN UP IN JULY <Aramco Corp> has accepted Japanesenominations to lift a higher proportion of Arab Heavy crude oilunder term contracts in July, oil industry sources said.    Japanese companies requested a ratio of 80 pct Arab Heavyto 20 pct Arab Light under a term contract agreement withAramco for 100,000 barrels per day, the sources said. Thecontractual ratio is 30 pct heavy crude to 70 pct light.    Japanese demand for heavy crude oil has increasedsubstantially since the All Japan Seaman's Union ceased sailinginto the northern Mideast gulf last month, causing problemswith liftings of heavy Kuwait and Khafji crudes. REUTER
INDONESIA CUTS JULY CRUDE SUPPLIES TO JAPAN Indonesia's state oil company, Pertamina,has informed its affiliated Japanese companies that crude oilsupplies will be 40 pct less than contractual volumes in July,a spokesman for an affiliated company said.    He said the allocations were in line with Indonesia'sproduction ceiling under its current OPEC quota, so they mightbe increased if OPEC ratifies a production rise next week.    Allocations of Indonesia's main traded crude, Minas, hadbeen cut by 50 pct and Duri by 38 pct, he said.    Last month contractual volumes were cut by 30 pct.    Contractual volumes assume no production ceiling.    Oil traders said Indonesian grades were already tradingabove their official selling prices (osp) on the spot marketdue to strong demand from Japan and the U.S. And tightsupplies.    A cargo of Duri loading in July was reportedly tradedyesterday at 70 cents over its osp of 15.60 dlrs per barrel andMinas is trading about 20 cents higher, they said. REUTER
OPEC DIFFERENTIALS NOT SEEN POSING MAJOR PROBLEMS Some OPEC states are unhappy about theprices assigned to their crude oil but this should not posegreat problems when the group reviews its six-month-old priceand output pact in Vienna next week, oil analysts say.    They said Nigeria, which holds the OPEC conferencepresidency, and Qatar probably have the biggest grievancesabout price differentials making some of their crudesuncompetitive.    There has also been speculation by Japanese traders thatOPEC might want to mark up prices of high-sulphur heavy crudes,to correspond with greater demand and higher fuel oil prices.    But most experts agree that a major overhaul of pricedifferentials is unlikely, so as to avoid giving the marketsignals of a dent in OPEC's new unity.    "All OPEC members can make a good case for changingdifferentials," said one analyst with a major oil company. "Butat the end of the day, the attitude is going to be "leave wellalone' and little or nothing is likely to be altered."    Iran, Libya and Saudi Arabia are among those who also sawsales problems earlier this year, traders say. But diminishedcustomer resistance to fixed prices and, in some cases,marketing incentives have helped their sales.    Some producers can sell uncompetitively priced crudes bymeans of discounts, processing deals or selling them alongsidebetter priced grades in a "package."    Many OPEC crudes are seen to be reasonably priced, at leastfor some part of the year. But many experts say OPEC shouldchange prices quarterly or monthly to match seasonal demand forfuel oil-rich heavy crudes and gasoline-rich lighter grades. Atits last meeting in December, OPEC agreed to reintroduce fixedprices from February 1 around an 18 dlr per barrel referencepoint. Official prices had been effectively dropped in 1985when members offered discounts to attract customers.    OPEC also decided to limit first-half 1987 output to 15.8mln bpd and proposed ceilings of 16.6 mln for the third quarterand 18.3 mln for the fourth. Analysts expect it will now extendor raise slightly the current ceiling for the coming months.    Spot market and netback values for some crudes do notmirror official prices, but OPEC will probably keep the 18 dlrtarget and at most make minimal changes to differentials,analysts say.    The 18 dlr figure is based on a basket of six OPEC and onenon-OPEC crudes. OPEC assigned prices to its other key exportcrudes, with a 2.65 dlr gap between the heaviest and lightest.Extra heavy crudes were among those left out.    Industry estimates vary on the proportion of OPEC oilexports actually sold at official prices. Several experts sayonly one-quarter to one-third of the total in fact sells atofficial prices, with some of the rest included in processingor barter deals or sold in the form of refined products.    Problems with the new structure appeared earlier this year,when some producers' output fell due to customer reluctance topay the new prices.   Nigeria especially found its gasoline-rich Bonny Light crude-- now OPEC's highest priced grade at 18.92 dlrs a barrel --was uncompetitive on the spot market against Britain's Brent.    In February and March, Nigeria's production shrank belowits 1.238 mln bpd OPEC quota. Spot prices have since revived,due partly to seasonal demand for gasoline, and its output hasrisen.    Some experts feel Bonny Light is still overvalued and sayits price should be cut by between 50 cts to one dlr a barrel.    But Mehdi Varzi, chief oil analyst with London's KleinwortGrieveson Securities, doubts Nigeria will actively push thedifferentials question in Vienna.    "It would not look good for OPEC unity if Nigeria, whichholds the presidency, raised the issue," he said. REUTER
WESTCOAST <WTC> TO ACQUIRE AGIP PROPERTIES WestcoastTransmission Co Ltd said it agreed to acquire the WesternCanada oil and gas reserves and properties of AGIP Canada Ltd,a subsidiary of AGIP SpA, part of Italy's ENI group, for 54 mlnCanadian dlrs.    At the end of 1986, AGIP Canada reported proven andprobable reserves of 4.2 mln barrels of crude oil and naturalgas liquids and 22.7 billion cubic feet of natural gas. AGIPCanada also holds 176,000 net exploratory acres in WesternCanada. Its properties produce about 1,100 barrels of oil aday.    The deal is subject to approval by both companies'directors.    Westcoast said the acquisition would enable it to applymore than 150 mln dlrs of accumulated tax pools of AGIP CanadaLtd to enhance after-tax cash flow from the acquiredproperties.    AGIP Canada said it would retain offshore explorationblocks in Labrador, a gold mine in Yukon Territory and uraniuminterests in Saskatchewan. Reuter
SHELL CANADA RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTING 32 CANADIAN French operators did not request anyexport licences at today's European Community weekly cerealtender, trade sources said. Reuter
IMPERIAL OIL RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 32  Bell and Howell Co, in remarks preparedfor delivery to the New York Society of Security Analysts, saidit expects per-share earnings to grow in the 12-to-15 pct rangein the next three to four years.    President Gerald Schultz said the growth is without stockbuybacks and tax law changes. He said the gain is expected off1986 per-share earnings of 1.89 dlrs, calculated to excludeDeVry Inc <DVRY.O> operations and non-recurring gains totaling45 cts a share.    The company said its decision to sell the DeVry business toKeller Graduate School of Management Inc will provide Bell andHowell with a non-recurring gain of more than 4.00 dlrs a sharein the third quarter and about 80 mln dlrs in additional cash.    "We will use proceeds of the transaction to repurchasestock (probably at least 10 pct) and for other purposes, suchas reducing debt" Chairman Donald Frey told analysts.    Bell and Howell said it will invest 16 mln dlrs this yearin electronic product development and introduction.    It said a stepped-up investment in its IDB2000 electronicstorage system, which uses optical disks, will result in a 5.0mln dlr loss for the product line, similar to last year. But itsaid "the swing to profitability in 1988 for this product willbe significant."    Currently, Bell and Howell is marketing the IDB2000 only toGeneral Motors Corp <GM> dealers. Reuter
PHILLIPS RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTED PRICES 50 Aid donors to Indonesia pledged atotal of 3.15 billion dlrs in fresh funds to Jakarta, astatement issued after a two day meeting of the InterGovernmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) said.    This compares with 2.6 billion dlrs allocated at lastyear's meeting, the statement said. It is also well above theWorld Bank's recommendation of 2.5 billion guilders in aid forthe coming year.    "The Group commended Indonesia for having taken effectivesteps to adjust to the changed economic environment," thestatement said.    The statement said Indonesia must take further steps to setthe stage for resumed economic growth that could createemployment for the country's rapidly growing labour force.    "These measures include additional significant trade andindustrial deregulation," the statement said.    It also called for policies supporting efficient anddiversified growth of agriculture, and said Jakarta should givemore room to the private sector. It called on Indonesia tomobilise more domestic resources to finance developmentprograms. REUTER
SHELL CANADA <SHC> RAISES CRUDE 32 CTS CANADIAN Shell Canada <SHC>, whose majorityinterest is owned by the Royal Dutch/Shell Group of companies,raised the postings of light sweet and sour crude oil fromEdmonton/Swann Hills 32 Canadian cts a barrel, effective today.    The new price for light sweet crude oil is 25.60 Canadiandlrs a barrel while the new price for light sweet sour crude is24.08 Canadian dlrs a barrel.    The Royal Dtuch/Shell Group owns 72 pct of Shell Canada andpublic shareholders, primarily Canadian, own the remaining 28pct of the company, a Shell Canada spokesman said. Reuter
UNION PACIFIC RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTING Qtly div 21-1/2 cts vs 21-1/2 cts prior    Pay Aug Three    Reord July Seven Reuter
IMPERIAL OIL <IMO.A> RAISES CRUDE 32 CANADIAN CTS Canadian Imperial Oil, 70 pct Exxonowned, said it raised its posting for light sweet crude oil atEdmonton by 32 canadian cts a barrel, effective today.    The company said its new posting for light sweet crude oilat Edmonton is 25.60 canadian dlrs a barrel. Reuter
DIAMOND SHAMROCK RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTED PRICE Nabisco Brands Ltd, 80 pct-owned by RJRNabisco Inc <RJR>, said it named president R. Edward Glover aschief executive, replacing J.R. MacDonald, who remains asvice-chairman and chairman of the executive committee,effective immediately.    Glover has been president and chief operating officer sinceApril, 1986, Nabisco said. Reuter
COASTAL RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 50 CTS/BBL YE Qtr ends march 28    Shr loss 1.46 dlrs vs loss 49 cts    Net loss 2,919,000 dlrs vs loss 892,000 dlrs    Revs 10.3 mln vs 11.5 mln    Avg shrs 2,000,000 vs 1,836,000    NOTE: full name of company is robert bruce industries Inc. Reuter
SOUTHLAND <SLC> UNIT RAISES CRUDE 50 CTS/BBL Southland Corp's subsidiary CitgoPetroleum said it raised its posted prices for crude oil acrossthe board by 50 cts a barrel, effective June 17.    Citgo said its new posting for West Texas Intermediate andWest Texas Sour is 19 dlrs a barrel. Light Louisiana Sweet isnow posted at 19.35, the company said. Reuter
MURPHY OIL <MUR> RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS Murphy Oil said it increased its crudeoil posted prices by 50 cts a barrel, effective June 17.The company said its new posting for West Texas Intermediateand West Texas Sour is 19 dlrs a barrel.    Light Louisiana Sweet crude is now 19.35 dollars a barrel,the company said. Increases follow a general trend in theindustry started yesterday by Sun Co. Reuter
PETRO-CANADA RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS 32 CTS CANAD A spokesman for the EuropeanCommunity Commission defended the controversial plan for a levyon oils and fats, saying that consumers would have to helpalleviate the surplus problem by paying the proposed tax.    Norbert Tanghe, head of division of the Commission'sDirectorate General for Agriculture, told the 8th Antwerp Oilsand Fats Contact Days "the Commission firmly believes that thesacrifices which would be undergone by Community producers inthe oils and fats sector ... Would justify asking consumers tomake an appropriate contribution to solving the serious problemwithin that sector by paying a levy."    The proposed tax is necessary because the level ofbudgetary costs resulting from olive oil and oilseedsproduction has become unacceptable, Tanghe said.    Recent estimates put these costs at 4.0 billion EuropeanCurrency Units and by 1990 they would rise by another 2.0billion Ecus, he said. In 1990 the Community's "standstill"agreements with Spain and Portugal end and the EC would thenfeel the full impact of its enlargement.    The Commission has proposed several cost and productioncutting measures which include the introduction of a maximumguaranteed quantity system, he added.    Under the Commission's system for stabilising consumerprices in the oils and fats sector, a reference price of 700Ecus per tonne for refined soy oil would be introduced, Tanghesaid.    Consumer prices could be raised or lowered by a regulatoryamount when market prices are below or above this level.    He said the revenue generated by charging a regulatoryamount would be used to finance the Common AgriculturalPolicy's oils and fats regime.    "The Commission believes that hostile reactions (to theproposed tax) have for the most part been based on incompleteor an insufficiently thorough analysis of the proposal," he said.    Tanghe said the proposed system conforms with GeneralAgreement on Tariffs and Trade, GATT, rules.    It would not be discriminatory because it would be appliedto domestic and imported products, and past experience showedit would not cause any decline in consumption of oils and fats.    EC-produced oilseeds would not benefit more than they dounder present aid arrangements, he said.    The competitiveness between different oils, whether ECproduced or imported, would remain unchanged and quantitiesimported from third countries would not be affected by the tax,Tanghe said.    The proposed system would not alter the EC nations'requirements as far as imports are concerned since the overalleffect would stabilise Community production levels withoutaffecting demand, he said.    It is one of the proposal's objectives to maintain currentimport levels, he said.    Imports of soybeans would be unaffected because they areimported primarily to satisfy the EC's cakes and mealsrequirements, which are not covered by the stabilising system.Furthermore, more than half the oil produced from importedbeans is re-exported to third countries, Tanghe added. Reuter
UNION PACIFIC <UNP> RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES Union Pacific Resources, formerlyChamplin Petroleum, said it raised posted prices for crude oilby 50 cts a barrel, effective yesterday.    The price increase brings West Texas Intermediate, the U.S.benchmark grade, to 19.00 dlrs a barrel.    The posted price increase follows a similar move by severalother oil companies.    Sun Co was the first to raise crude oil postings yesterdayafternoon and today many other companies are following.    The last price increase made by oil companies was aroundMay 22.    Reuter
MARATHON RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 50 CTS/BBL, Italy's overall balance of payments showeda deficit of 3,211 billion lire in May compared with a surplusof 2,040 billion in April, provisional Bank of Italy figuresshow.    The May deficit compares with a surplus of 1,555 billionlire in the corresponding month of 1986.    For the first five months of 1987, the overall balance ofpayments showed a surplus of 299 billion lire against a deficitof 2,854 billion in the corresponding 1986 period. REUTER
COASTAL <CGP> CRUDE POSTING UP 50 CTS/BBL Coastal Corp <CGP> said it raised thepostings of crude oil 50 cts a barrel across the board,effective yesterday, June 17.    The new price for West Texas Intermediate is 19.00 dlrs abarrel. For West Texas Sour the new price is 18.10 dlrs abarrel. Reuter
NATIONAL INTERGROUP <NII> UNIT RAISES CRUDE PRICES Permian Corp, a subsidiary of NationalIntergroup, said it raised its crude oil postings by 50 cts abarrel, effective June 17.    the company said its new posted price for West TexasIntermediate and West Texas Sour is 19 dlrs a barrel, whileLight Louisiana Sweet is now 19.35. The price hike followsother increases industrywide. Reuter
U.K. COURT RULES AGAINST RTZ ON OIL FIELD COSTS The U.K. High Court dismissed an appealby Rio Tinto-Zinc Corp Plc's <RTZL.L> RTZ Oil and Gas Ltd unitand ruled that the financial provisions a company makes for thefuture cost of abandoning an oil field are not tax deductible,the Press Association reported.    The company was appealing against a decision of the TaxCommissioners that any such provision was a capitalexpenditure, not a revenue expenditure, and was not deductible.The court was told that since 1976 the company had made anannual provision of around 750,000 stg for the eventual cost ofabandoning a rig.    An RTZ spokesman said the ruling was not worrying as thesubsidiary had assumed that the provisions were not deductiblefrom corporation tax payable.    It would have been a bonus if the company had won but allbudgeting had been on the assumption that it would not, hesaid.    Oil analysts said that RTZ's assumption of liability wasshared by the industry as a whole.    The ruling appeared to mean that tax relief on theexpensive process of abandoning rigs would apply when theexpense occurred, not when provisions for future expenses werebuilt into the accounts, one analyst added. Reuter
UNOCAL RAISED CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 50 CTS/BBL, WT Virtusonics Corp said it has cut theexercise price of its warrants to 1.5 cts per share from 2.5cts from June 22 until July 22. Reuter
UNOCAL <UCL> RAISED CRUDE OIL POSTINGS BY 50 CTS/BBL Unocal said it raised its postings forcrude oil by 50 cts a barrel, effective June 17. The companysaid it is now posting West Texas Intermediate and West TexasSour at 19 dlrs a barrel.    Unocal said its new Light Louisiana Sweet posted price is19.35 dlrs a barrel. the price move follows a wave of increasesinitiated by Sun Co yesterday. Reuter
DIAMOND SHAMROCK <DRM> RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS Diamond Shamrock R and M said it raisedits crude oil contract prices by 50 cts a barrel, effectiveJune 17.    The company said its new posting for West TexasIntermediate crude is 19 dlrs a barrel. The price increasefollows similar moves by several other companies. Reuter
DUPONT UNIT RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 50  General Automation Inc said ithas signed a definitive agreement to pay 4.5 mln dlrs to theInternal Revenue Service in taxes, interest and penalties forthe years 1972 through 1981.    It will make an initial payment on June 30 of 500,000 dlrs,with ongoing quarterly payments over about two years.    General Automation said in conjunction with the IRSagreement, it has placed about one mln dlrs in five-year, eightpct unsecured notes with a group of private investors.    The notes are accompanied by five-year warrants to buyabout 110,000 shares of common stock at 6.38 dlrs per share. Reuter
DUPONT UNIT RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS Conoco Inc, a subsidiary of duPontdeNemours <DD>, said it raised the contract price it will payfor all grades of crude oil 50 cts a barrel, effectiveyesterday.    The increase brings Conoco's posted price for West TexasIntermediate to 19.00 dlrs a barrel. The West Texas Sour grade,at 34 API, now stands at 18.10 dlrs a barrel. Light Louisianawas also raised 50 cts to 19.35 dlrs barrel.    Conoco last changed its crude postings on May 21. Reuter
CHEYENNE <CHYN.O> BUYS INTERESTS IN PROPERTIES Cheyenne Resources Inc said itpurchased interests in four producing oil and gas propertiesfor 2,240,000 shares of the company's restricted stock.    The largest interest was 25 pct of an oil and gas well inWeld County, Colo, the company said. Cheyenne said it had fivepct or less interest in the three other properties.    Cheyenne said it should realized 10,000 dlrs net incomemonthly at the properties' current production levels. Reuter
SRI LANKA PLANS TO RENEW ABU DHABI OIL CONTRACT Ceylon Petroleum Corp (CPC) has decidedto renew its one-year contract with Abu Dhabi for 480,000tonnes of Upper Zakum crude oil, CPC officials told Reuters.    They said CPC made the recommendation to the cabinet and isnow awaiting its approval.    CPC's one-year contract with Abu Dhabi expired on May 31this year and it wants the renewed contract to begin on June 1at the government selling price. Delivery will be determined inthe course of the year. Last year, shipments were in threeparcels of 120,000 tonnes each and four of 30,000 tonnes each.    CPC officials also said the company agreed with theEgyptian government for the supply of 240,000 tonnes of Gulf ofSuez crude for delivery in two shipments this year at thegovernment selling price.    Last year, CPC bought 120,000 tonnes Gulf of Suez throughC.Itoh.    Officials said plans to buy 240,000 tonnes of Basra Lightfrom Iraq have not been finalised yet because of severalconstraints. CPC said it could not accept 120,000 tonne parcelsand proposed to lift 30,000 tonnes in eight shipments.    Iraq National Oil Co (INOC) told CPC a Red Sea port wherelifting was to take place could not accept small ships. INOCthen proposed to deliver eight shipments of 30,000 tonnes each.    CPC said INOC planned to ship the oil to an Indian port fordelivery of Indian requirements, later going to Colombo tooffload CPC's needs, but CPC considered this unsuitable.    CPC said it had not received a reply from INOC sinceDecember. Sri Lanka imports all its annual needs of 1.7 mlntonnes. This year it plans to buy 400,000 tonnes on the spotmarket compared with about 1.3 mln tonnes last year. REUTER
SAUDI OIL RESERVES RISE DESPITE HIGHER OUTPUT Proven oil and gas deposits in SaudiArabia increased in 1986 despite higher oil output, accordingto the kingdom's main producing company, Aramco.    Recoverable oil reserves in Aramco fields rose to 167billion barrels by the end the year from 166.5 billion in 1985,while gas reserves jumped by 7.7 pct to 135.8 trillion cu ftfrom 126.1 trillion, the company's annual report said.    Aramco, responsible for all Saudi production except about200,000 barrels per day (bpd) in the Neutral Zone between SaudiArabia and Kuwait, increased production to 4.69 mln barrels perday in 1986 from 3.04 mln barrels a year earlier.    Most of 1986 was a virtual free-for-all in production, asOPEC members abandoned restraint in an effort to recapturetheir share of the market. In the process, prices collapsedfrom about 28 dlrs a barrel to below nine dlrs, until theorganisation decided to cut production again from lastSeptember onwards.    Saudi output in 1985 had been the lowest since the 1960s.    Production of natural gas liquids in 1986 declined slightlyto 304,178 bpd from 316,310, said the report, carried on theofficial Saudi Press Agency.    The increase in reserves came despite a sharp cut in thenumber of wells Aramco drilled to 33 in 1986 from 103 in 1985.    Aramco's only refinery, at Ras Tannurah, processed 142.44mln barrels (390,246 bpd) of crude last year. The plant wasupgraded to a capacity of 530,000 bpd during the year, enablingit to supply 50 pct of local demand for oil products, thereport said.    The country's other five, smaller refineries -- owned byanother state-owned oil organisation, Petromin -- producedaround 750,000 bpd last year.    Sulphur production rose to 1.23 mln tonnes in 1986 from998,707 tonnes in 1985. During the year the company beganoperating a sulphur granule plant with capacity of 4,000 tonnesper day, the report said.    Aramco said it awarded 1,303 contracts last year worth 1.4billion riyals -- about 370 mln dlrs. REUTER
OPEC PRESIDENT LUKMAN EXPECTS SHORT, CALM MEETING OPEC conference president Rilwanu Lukmansaid he expects next week's ministerial meeting in Vienna to bebrief and calm and that OPEC's current price and productionagreement may only need a slight review.    "I expect the meeting in Vienna to be short and calm,"Lukman, who is also Nigerian oil minister, told reporters hereahead of his departure on Sunday for the conference, whichstarts June 25.    "We already have an agreement which may need only a slightreview," Lukman said.    The agreement reached at a long session of OPEC ministersin December last year pegged the group's crude oil output at15.8 mln bpd for first half 1987 at fixed prices of around 18dlrs a barrel.    Since then prices have risen from 15 dlrs in December tojust above the official OPEC levels, with oil industry analystsfirmly convinced the organisation will maintain the agreementto keep the market stable.    "I myself believe that OPEC will tend to take a position tostrengthen the gains we have made so far," Lukman said.    He declined to say if the current ceiling should bemaintained or raised to 16.6 mln bpd for the third quarter and18.3 mln for the fourth as provisionally agreed last December.    "Whatever decision we arrive at will be guided by ourcollective will to keep the market strong," he said.    He said non-OPEC member Norway, which he visited two weeksago, had pledged further cooperation with the group and thiswas significant for its members.    Lukman said heavy destocking by consumers early this yearwhen OPEC's fixed price regime came into effect and arestocking now for the winter was responsible for currentmarket strength. Reuter
TEXACO CANADA RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 24  Armco said its NorthernAutomatic Electric Foundry Co unit formed a joint venturecompany with Stelco Inc <STE.TO> unit Stelco Erie Corp.    The companies said the new firm, which will be called M.E.International, will represent an investment of 15 mln dlrs forthe companies involved.    They said the venture will produce cast grinding media andmill liners for the mining industry.    The companies said the venture will also include the assetsof the Evans Duluth Steel Castings Co which have been boughtfrom the Evans Asset Holding Co for an undisclosed sum. Reuter
TEXACO <TXC> CANADA TO RAISE CRUDE OIL POSTINGS Texaco Inc's Texaco Canada said itwill raise  postings for its Edmonton/Swann Hills crude by 24canadian cts a barrel, effective June 20.    The company said the new posting for Edmonton/Swann Hillswill be 25.60 dlrs a barrel. The price hike follows a round ofcrude oil price increases started late June 17 by Sun Co. Theother major canadian crude suppliers raised prices June 18. Reuter
UNOCAL<UCL> SCRAPS FLUIDIZED BED BOILER PROJECT Unocal Corp said it told the U.S.Treasury Department that it will not include fluidized bedcombustion technology, a method for the more efficient burningof solids, at its Parachute Creek oil shale project in Coloradodue to high costs.    Under a 1985 agreement with the now-defunct U.S. SyntheticFuels Corp, Unocal said it would study using the technology atthe oil shale plant. In return the company would have beeneligible for 500 mln dlrs in loan gaurantees and price supportsfrom the U.S. Treasury Department, which took over the contractfrom the Synthetic Fuels Corp, Unocal said.    Unocal said its studies showed the cost for the fluidizedbed combustion facility would have exceeded 352 mln dlrs,compared with an original estimate of 260 mln dlrs.    The fluidized bed facility would have provided heat andelectricity for the oil shale project, Unocal said.    Last year's fall in oil prices and the loss of investmenttax credit under the Tax Reform Act made the projectuneconomical even with government price supports and loanguarantees, Unocal said.    The Parachute Creek oil shale plant produces about 4,000 to5,000 barrels per day of crude shale oil, Unocal said. Reuter
INTERNATIONAL LPG PRICES STEADY IN QUIET MARKET International LPG prices were littlechanged in the past week, barely affected by the excitement onthe advent of OPEC's mid-year meeting, traders and industrysources said.    "If the OPEC decides to increase crude oil production," atraders said, "LPG supplies will be up without correspondingrise in demand."    Petrochemical buyers were sidelined, after their foray inthe market early in june, they said.    An industry meeting in Dublin this week also drew manymarket participants away from the trading desk, they added.    Algeria has moved at least two cargoes of propane to theU.S. Gulf, keeping Mediterranean prices steady, traders said.    In the Mideast Gulf, propane appeared easing slightly,after a major U.S. oil company bought propane on formula whichnetted back about 123 dlrs, cif Mideast Gulf, which was twodlrs below Saudi Arabia's government selling price (gsp),industry sources said.    Delivered propane to Japan was quoted at gsp plus 19 dlrsand butane at gsp plus 25 dlrs, the traders said. Reuter
KUWAIT SEEN WANTING TO LEASE SOME U.S. TANKERS The United States said Kuwait wasdiscussing plans to lease privately-owned U.S. tankers totransport oil through the Gulf in addition to putting some ofits own vessels under American flags.    State Department spokeswoman Phyllis Oakley, who made thedisclosure about the tankers, also told reporters the UnitedStates expects to conclude very soon a favorable arrangementwith Saudi Arabia concerning expanded security cooperation inthe Gulf. The two developments occur as the Reaganadministration continued to come under fire in Congress for itsplans to bring 11 Kuwaiti tankers under American flags.    The move is designed to protect the tankers from Iranianattacks and ensure freedom of navigation in the strategicwaterway but has raised fears on Capitol Hill that it will drawthe United States into the seven-year-old Iran-Iraq War.    "The Kuwaitis have discussed the possibility of charteringU.S. flag vessels with the Maritime Administration," Oakleysaid. She emphasized, however, that "if some charter arrangementcould be worked out, it would not supplant the reflaggingarrangement that we worked out with the Kuwaitis."    In both cases, the ships would be eligible for U.S. Navyescort in the Gulf, she said.   The Washington Post today quoted John Gaughan, administratorof the Martime Administration, as saying Kuwait has approachedan American shipping company about the possibility of acharter.    Gaughan said that earlier this week he told representativesof the company, whose identify he did not know, that charteredvessels flying the U.S. flag "would be protected," the newspaperreported.    Concerning Saudi Arabia, Oakley said "we are moving forwardin our talks ... on how we can tailor our efforts and securitycooperation to facilitate our Gulf operations." Reuter
SANTOS SAYS IT HAS SIGNIFICANT OIL FIND Santos Ltd <STOS.S> said it had made asignificant oil discovery at its Mawson One well in the Moombablock of the Cooper Basin, South Australia.    It said the well flowed oil from sands at an average rateof 1,440 barrels per day from 2,131 to 2,135 metres through a6mm choke.    Santos said the well was cased and suspended pendingfurther evaluation. But it said the proximity of the discoveryto existing production facilities at the Gidgealpa South fieldwould allow Mawson One to be brought into production rapidly.    Santos has a 60 pct stake in the block, <Delhi PetroleumPty Ltd> has 30 pct and <South Australian Oil and Gas Corp PtyLtd> has 10 pct. REUTER
OIL MARKETS SHOW RESPECT FOR NEW OPEC ACCORD OPEC has shown itself to be in controlof the world oil situation with its speed in hammering out apact to limit crude oil output to 16.6 mln barrels per day(bpd) for the rest of 1987, oil traders said.    They said market respect for the cartel has increased sinceit announced Saturday that it would cut fourth quarter outputto 16.6 mln bpd from the 18.3 mln agreed in December.    "There are light oversupplies now, but OPEC ... Has ensuredthere will be no oversupplies in the fourth quarter, and is ineffect putting pressure on end-users," a European crude oiltrader said.    In Tokyo, one oil analyst said, "There's no reason to expecta weak market from now on."    A Japanese oil trader, also based in Tokyo, said, "Wethought OPEC would have difficulty agreeing on fourth quarterproduction so the market will react very bullishly."    Traders in Singapore said that while there has been only aslight increase so far in spot quotes for Dubai, a benchmarkcrude, they expect price increases over the next few days.    August Dubai was discussed in cautious early activity ataround 17.35 dlrs, above Friday's 17.15-20 range, but stillbelow the government selling price (GSP) of 17.42.    Even prices of light Mideast grades, such as Qatar and AbuDhabi crudes, are expected to improve from recent weakpositions, 15 to 20 cents below their GSP's. Singapore traderssaid sellers might now aim for GSP's at least.    They said that after initial jumps, they expect prices tostabilise and hover around GSPs for the next few months.    They said the Japanese oil market would be most affectedand Japanese end-users would need to rebuild stocks for winterrequirements before October.    Prices are most likely to rise in the fourth quarter onEuropean and U.S. Stockbuilding for winter, they added.    "There's no doubt consumption will be higher than productionby the fourth quarter and stocks are not that high," said aninternational trader in Tokyo. Another Tokyo trader was lessbullish, "For sure there will be some shortage but it depends onhow much they (OPEC members) cheat."    A Singapore trade source said, "There is enough cheating andleakage in the OPEC sales system to convince traders there isno need to worry about shortages."    Other traders said the questionable Iraqi production level,after Iraq's rejection of its assigned quota, was a bearishfactor to be considered.    Traders also said end-users now would buy as much aspossible on term contracts and buy spot only when the marketcooled from its initial reaction to the OPEC agreement.    Spot product prices in Singapore were little changed inthin early discussions, with naphtha and middle distillatesquiet on minimal buying interest.    Fuel oil products were steady to firm on light demand andtight prompt supplies, dealers said. REUTER
FAR EAST TRADERS EXPECT 20 DLR OIL IN JANUARY OPEC's agreement to limit output to 16.6mln barrels per day (bpd) for the rest of the year should boostspot prices and enable the group to raise its officialreference price to 20 dlrs a barrel in January from the current18 dlrs, Far East oil industry sources said.    "Fundamentally, the market situation is bullish and theofficial price will be 20 dlrs in January," a Japanese refinersaid.    The sources said that in spite of over-production by OPECmembers such as Iraq, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait andQatar, demand should exceed supply by the fourth quarter.    Spot oil prices surged on Friday in late U.S. Trading asthe market anticipated an OPEC agreement on second-half 1987output. In early Tokyo trade, levels were firm at 17.30 dlrsfor Mideast Dubai cargoes loading next month and 19.00 dlrs forU.K. Brent, traders said.    They said they expect more foreign crudes to be sucked intothe U.S. Market as the benchmark crude West Texas Intermediate(WTI) trades at around 20.30 dlrs.    "With WTI at 20, 21 or 22 dlrs, U.S. Refiners will importMideast and Far East crudes and this will strengthen thosegrades further," said a Japanese oil trader.    Some Tokyo traders were cautious about whether thU spotmarket has further upward potential in the short term, havingrisen strongly on the OPEC news on Friday.    "You could certainly argue that if New York rose on thatbasis, there's no reason for prices to go up again today," saidone international oil trader in Tokyo.    "But I think if there's any sign of a dip, it will be boughtback up again pretty quickly," he added.    One oil industry analyst concurred, "There is no reason toexpect a weak market from now on." He said he expected OPEC toraise prices to 20 dlrs when it meets on December 9.    Oil sources said spot prices are unlikely to surge stronglyin the next few months due to cheating by some OPEC members andthe likelihood that Saudi Arabia will act as swing producer tomaintain steady prices.    Iraq is currently producing around two mln barrels per daycompared to its second-half quota of 1.54 mln, they said. Itsexport capability will rise to 2.5 mln bpd when a new pipelinethrough Turkey, comes onstream in or around September.    Qatar is said to be achieving sales of around 350,000 bpd,against its OPEC-assigned quota of 299,000, by discounting upto 20 cents a barrel from official prices, the sources said.    Iran, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait are also cheatingon the OPEC agreement with over-production and effective pricediscounts through counter-purchases, industry sources said. Butthey mostly agreed that Saudi Arabia will unofficially act asswing producer, cutting production to compensate for higheroutput by other members or boosting output if spot prices risetoo high too fast.    Saudi Arabia has a floating oil stockpile of 40 to 50 mlnbarrels. "Saudi Arabia wants oil price stability so thestockpile may be utilized to cool down the market if it risestoo much," an oil industry analyst said. REUTER
SAUDI OIL COMPANY GETS NEW ACTING GOVERNOR The acting governor of Saudi Arabia'sstate-owned oil company, Petromin, Jamal Hassan Jawa, hasretired at his own request, oil industry sources said.    They said Ali Ibrahim Rubaishi, head of organisationplanning in Petromin, would take over as acting governor.    Jawa held the post since his predecessor, Abdul-Hadi Taher,left in a major oil industry shake up last December.    The sources said Rubaishi had not been expected to hold thepost permanently.    The government removed Taher and Oil Minister Ahmed ZakiYamani from their posts late last year in a move which industrysources said was aimed at coming to grips with a buyers' oilmarket.    The two men had run the Saudi oil industry for more than 20years. Industry sources said that despite huge resources, SaudiArabia had been unable to mould an oil marketing strategy tunedto the competitive realities of the 1980s glut.    Hisham Nazer, who replaced Yamani, successfully led anOPEC-engineered return to fixed oil prices of 18 dlrs a barrellast December.    Nazer is believed to be reviewing Saudi oil operationswhich could lead to a thorough overhaul in the way Saudi Arabiadoes business, the sources said.    The sources had said possible candidates for the governor'sjob include Prince Abdul Aziz Ibn Salman Ibn Abdul Aziz, whoearlier ran a research center at Saudi Arabia's University ofPetroleum and Minerals, and former Deputy Planning MinisterFaisal Beshir. They also list Abdulla Bakr, President of theUniversity of Petroleum and Minerals, economist Ali Jonahi,Ahmed Shinawi, and Zuheir Masoud, director of Jeddah IslamicPort. REUTER
UAE OIL MINISTER OTEIBA VISITS EGYPT - AGENCY UAE Oil Minister Mana Said al-Oteibaarrived in Alexandria last night for a visit to Egypt, thenational Middle East News Agency (MENA) said.    It said Oteiba, who had just attended the OPEC ministerialmeeting in Vienna, would stay for several days but gave nodetails.    Non-OPEC Egypt has pledged to restrain output to supportOPEC's moves to boost oil prices. Oil Minister Abdel HadiKandeel last week said Egypt plans to leave its oil productionof 870,000 barrels per day unchanged for the next five years.Egypt is able to produce up to one mln bpd. REUTER
NORWAY EXTENDS 7.5 PCT OIL OUTPUT CUT - MINISTRY Norway will extend its 7.5 pct cutback inplanned North Sea oil output in support of OPEC from July 15until the end of this year, Oil Ministry spokesman Egil Helletold Reuters.    "We took a very positive view of the OPEC meeting in Vienna,"he said. "The accord reached there means stability in the oilmarket and we shall continue making our contribution."    The cuts, originally brought in from February 1, wouldprobably be officially approved on July 10 by parliament, Hellesaid. The ministry had written to Norway's oil companies andwould now discuss with them how best to implement the cuts.    OPEC agreed this weekend in Vienna on an output ceiling of16.6 mln barrels per day (bpd) for the rest of 1987 andretained the fixed prices that were set in its December accordbased on an 18 dlr per barrel reference point.    OPEC's first half 1987 output ceiling was 15.8 mln bpd, andit's December pact had provisionally set a third quarterceiling of 16.6 mln bpd, rising to 18.3 mln in the fourthquarter.    Norway, which pumps around one mln bpd from its offshorefields, previously said it would continue its output curbs fromplanned production for the rest of the year if OPEC remainedwithin its December accord on output and prices.    Norway's oil production rose 10 pct to an average of around840,000 bpd in 1986. Since then it has risen to around one mlnbpd, and is expected to reach about 1.5 mln bpd by 1995.    The 7.5 pct cut from planned production implemented sinceFebruary reduced Norway's oil output by about 80,000 bpd.    Norway's Oil Minister Arne Oeien, currently in Iceland fora meeting of Nordic ministers, has made no official statementon the latest oil production cutbacks.    Over the past year several other leading non-OPECproducers, including the Soviet Union, Mexico, China, Malaysiaand Egypt have also pledged support for OPEC's bid to keepprices stable.    Norway decided on the initial round of cuts following anOPEC agreement last December which boosted oil prices to around18 dlrs per barrel from around 14 to 15 dlrs last December.    Norway relies on oil for about 40 pct of its total exportearnings and was hit hard by the collapse in the oil priceduring the first half of 1986.    But firmer oil prices since then have brought somestability to the economy and helped narrow the foreign tradedeficit.     Norway's North Sea neighbour Britain has consistentlyrefused to cooperate with OPEC output cuts saying it is up tothe producing oil companies to set the levels of production. REUTER
EXTRACTS FROM OPEC COMMUNIQUE Following are extracts from thecommunique issued at the conclusion of the OPEC conferencehere.    "The conference expressed satisfaction about the positiveresults of the agreement signed in December, 1986, by whichOPEC re-established the system of fixed price at a level of 18dlrs per barrel supported by OPEC production ceilingsdistributed into national production levels.    "The conference noted that all market indicators, includingspot prices in the market and netback values of all OPECcrudes, have been firming up significantly, thus consolidatingthe OPEC price structure as defined by the agreement."    "The conference examined the supply/demand outlook for thesecond half of the year and decided that in order to securecontinued firm prices in the market, OPEC production during thefourth quarter of 1987 will be equal to that of the thirdquarter, I.E. 16.6 mln barrels per day (bpd), distributed intothe same national production levels as were defined by theabove-mentioned agreement for that quarter."    "Furthermore, the conference decided to establish acommittee of five heads of delegation to monitor the priceevolution in the market in relation to the OPEC official pricesin order to secure price stability around the opec pricestructure.    "Should there be any significant change in market prices,the committee would immediately call for an extraordinarymeeting of the conference with a view to deciding on thenecessary OPEC production levels during the second half of theyear, which would secure the desired market stability."    "The conference reiterated the necessity of membercountries' strict adherence to the agreement signed in December1986, both in terms of official price, and national production,levels.    "For this purpose, the conference decided to establish acommittee of three heads of delegation to undertake visits tomember countries in order to motivate them to comply with theterms of the agreement."    "Moreover, the conference stressed the necessity of thecooperation of the oil-producing exporting countries outsideOPEC as an essential prerequisite for a lasting marketstability.    The conference, therefore, decided to reinstate the groupof five heads of delegation established by the 77th(extraordinary) meeting of the conference in April, 1986 toundertake the necessary contacts with those countries.    "The conference observed the continued fall in the value ofthe U.S. Dollar and agreed that the matter should be studiedand reported to the next meeting of the conference."    "The conference discussed the appointment of the secretarygeneral and decided to discuss the matter again in its nextordinary meeting.    "The conference extended the term of office of Fadhilal-Chalabi as deputy secretary general for a period of one yearfrom October 7, 1987.    "The next ordinary meeting of the conference will beconvened in Vienna on December 9, 1987." REUTER
KUWAIT SEES OPEC OUTPUT OVER CEILING TO END-YEAR OPEC output for the second half of 1987,including that of Iraq, will be above the official 16.6 mlnbarrels per day (bpd) output ceiling agreed by OPEC Saturday,Kuwait oil minister Sheikh Ali al-Khalifa al-Sabah, said.    Iraq refused to sign the pact, by which OPEC maintained itsceiling at 16.6 mln bpd for both the third and fourth quartersof 1987. In December, OPEC set a provisional fourth quarterlevel of 18.3 mln bpd, now cut back to the third quartertarget.    Ali told a news conference that including Iraq, "OPEC thirdquarter output will be between 17.5 and 17.7 mln bpd whilefourth quarter output will be nearly 18 mln bpd"    Ali did not detail what effect he thought these productionlevels would have on prices.    Iraq has an official first half quota of 1.466 mln bpd,rising to 1.54 mln in the second half, but has refused toadhere to it and has recently been producing around two mlnbarrels per day, exporting it through pipelines to Saudi Arabiaand Turkey. Iraq's export capacity will be further boosted whena 500,000 bpd oil pipeline via Turkey comes on stream in aboutSeptember.    Iraq has been insisting on a quota equal to its Gulf Warenemy Iran, which has a quota of 2.255 mln bpd, rising to 2.369mln in the second half.    Ali said the position of the 400,000 bpd production fromthe Neutral Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, which hasbeen supplied to Iraq as war relief crude, was fixed. "We willnot discuss it. There will not be any change," he said.    Ali said the conference, which began Thursday and endedSaturday evening, had been too short for all necessary problemsto be adressed. "We are overdoing it in holding too short ameeting. We sweep a lot under the carpet," he said.    Ali said the problem of price differentials between theprices of various OPEC crudes had not been dealt with properlyat the meeting.    Ali said "The problem of differentials is a real one. Iwould hate to be producing today a light crude and that problemhas not been dealt with properly. Light crudes are overpricedrelative to heavy crudes."    Asked if the issue of differentials would be raised at thenext OPEC meeting to be held in Vienna on December 9, Ali said"If my crudes are affected I will raise the issue, I will not dothe work of another minister."    Kuwait's own crudes range from medium to heavy grades.    OPEC reintroduced fixed prices on February 1, with a spreadof 2.65 dlrs a barrel between its lightest and heaviest crudes.        Reuter
IRAQ REJECTS NEW OPEC OIL QUOTA Iraq has rejected its new OPECproduction quota set in Vienna for the second half of thisyear, the official Iraqi news agency INA reported.    It quoted Oil Minister Issam Abdul-Rahim al-Chalabi, whoreturned Sunday, as saying "Iraq will continue to adhere to itsposition considering itself as not included in the agreement."    Last December, Iraq rejected its assigned first half 1987quota of 1.466 mln bpd and demanded a share equal to the 2.255mln bpd quota set for Iran, its enemy in the nearlyseven-year-old Gulf war.    The accord reached by OPEC ministers in Vienna Saturday setan output ceiling of 16.6 mln bpd for the group's 13 membersfrom July to December, raising Iraq's share to 1.54 mln bpd andIran's to 2.369 mln. Reuter
CHANCES OF DIRECT U.S.-IRAN GULF CLASH SEEN LOW U.S. moves to increase its warships inand around the Mideast Gulf could trigger more attacks onunprotected merchant ships but run little risk of sparking adirect military clash with Iran, diplomats said.    They said the American decision inevitably carries somerisk of armed confrontation, but Iran -- despite its bluntrhetoric -- would want to avoid this as much as Washington.    "As Iran knows very well, what America is bringing into theGulf could do serious damage," said one western diplomat.    Diplomats see the greatest potential danger in more attackson "soft targets" such as merchant shipping not protected byAmerican or other western navy vessels patrolling the Gulf.    The risk of Iranian attack on U.S. Warships or Kuwaiti oiltankers carrying the U.S. Flag and under naval escort is ratedby diplomats as low. However, "There is the threat that theIranians, seeing these heavily protected U.S.-flag tankers,will go for softer targets," one diplomat said.    Tehran Radio quoted Iran's top defence spokesman Ali AkbarHashemi Rafsanjani as saying yesterday that Washington was"moving to the brink of an armed encounter with us."    The U.S. is increasing its Gulf fleet from seven to 10warships and sending the refurbished battleship Missouri topatrol just outside the Strait of Hormuz.    The build-up ties in with U.S. plans to start escortingKuwaiti oil tankers next month, which have been re-registeredto fly the American flag to give them naval protection.    Shipping serving Kuwait has come under repeated attack byIran, angered at the emirate's war backing of Iraq.    Concern in the region has mounted over the threat posed byChinese-made Silkworm missiles, which the U.S. says Iran ispreparing to deploy near the Strait of Hormuz.    The Missouri, with its four-escort flotilla, is likely tomake Iran think twice about using the missiles, diplomats said.    A military source in the Gulf has said Iran also set up alaunching site for the Silkworms on captured Iraqi soil in theFaw peninsula, within range of Kuwait.    "But anything that went as far as a direct attack on Kuwaititerritory would be a very serious escalation" likely movingworld opinion against Iran, remarked one.    Some diplomats believe Iran could also consider carryingout reprisals against the United States outside the Gulf.    Rafsanjani, who is also parliamentary leader, predictedlast Friday "a river of blood" throughout the world in the eventof any U.S. strike against Iran.    Western diplomats said Iran, which Washington has accusedof being behind state-sponsored terrorism, had no demonstrablecapacity to carry out attacks in the U.S. itself.    Diplomats saw few potential targets in Lebanon now thatmost Americans have left in the wake of kidnappings linked topro-Iranian groups. But Europe and Asia were potentialtrouble-spots, and Kuwait was one of the most obvious targets.    Any backlash was likely to take the form of sabotage orother action to make it difficult to blame Iran, they added. Reuter
CHEVRON N.SEA FIND MAY HOLD 300 MLN BBLS -ANALYSTS A North Sea oil find announced by ChevronCorp's <CHV> Chevron Exploration North Sea Ltd may indicate anew field with recoverable crude oil reserves of 300 mlnbarrels, industry analysts said.    Chevron said a sidetrack well on block 16/26 on the U.K.Continental shelf tested 9,000 barrels per day (bpd) of 20 APIcrude oil from the tertiary "Alba" sand through a three-inchsurface choke.    "The estimated amount of oil at the Alba field is around 320mln barrels," Paul Spedding of stockbroker Kleinwort Grievesonand Co told Reuters.    He said industry estimates put the total reserves at thefield at over one billion barrels, but given the low gravity ofoil, the recovery rate would be expected to be around 20-25pct.    Analysts said the results were encouraging, but thepotential difficulty of operating and recovering oil in thefield was shown by the fact that the first well had to beplugged and a sidetrack drilled.    "The field seems to be shallow and widespread, which willrequire a multi-platform development in recovery, pushing costsup," Christopher Osborne of stockbroker Hoare Govett said.    Most analysts said that although the low gravity of the oilfound would require additional costs in recovery, the test wellshowed that it flows well.    "Although the gravity of oil at the field seems to be low,it seems to flow quite well and around 300 mln barrels could berecovered," Carol Bell of Phillips and Drew told Reuters.    However, Chevron officials declined to comment on theanalysts' reserve estimates. They said that without furtherresearch and drilling in the area this summer, they would notdisclose any reserve figures.    Analysts said that if the field were declared commercialand developed, there would be a ready local market for theheavy crude it produced.    "Most refineries are now upgraded to refine heavy oils andthe price differentials between heavy and light crudes are alot narrower today," Osborne said.    Chevron operates the block on behalf of 16 companies whichinclude British Petroleum Development Ltd, DSM Hydrocarbons(UK) Ltd, Enterprise Oil (TNS) Ltd, Marathon Int. Pet. (GB) Ltdand Phillips Petroleum Co U.K. Ltd. Reuter
ECUADOR TO PRODUCE ABOVE OPEC QUOTA - MINISTER Ecuador will produce crude oil in excessof its 221,000-bpd OPEC quota during the second half of thisyear, Energy Minister Fernando Santos Alvite told a newsconference.    Ecuador plans to produce 280,000 bpd in August, rising to320,000 bpd next January, the minister said.    "We will be producing more than the quota to pay off thecrude and products we have been lent by Venezuela, Nigeria andKuwait and to compensate for the crude we have been unable toproduce during the past few months," he said.    Earthquake damage to a pipeline sharply cut Ecuadoreanproduction from March to May this year.    Santos said the move had been explained to fellow OPECmembers during last week's meeting in Vienna, when an increasein Ecuador's quota to 221,000 bpd from 210,000 was approved.    "They understood our position and we believe we remainwithin the spirit of the (quota) agreement," he said.    Immediately before the March quake Ecuadorean productionwas 250,000-260,000 bpd, with 144,000 bpd exported.    While its production was down, Venezuela, Nigeria andKuwait loaned Ecuador a total 12 mln barrels of crude and fourmln barrels of products, Santos said. Reuter
VENEZUELA LOWERS EXCHANGE RATE FOR OIL EARNINGS Venezuela's cabinet approved a newexchange rate for oil and mining export earnings, setting it at14.50 bolivars to the dollar from 7.50 bolivars previously,Minister Manuel Azpur UA said.    Azpur told reporters after a cabinet meeting that themeasure is "fundamental to conserving the economic and financialstrength of the petroleum industry."     He said the new exchange rate, which goes before thecentral bank for final approval tommorrow, will allow the stateoil company Petroleos De Venezuela, S.A.(PDVSA) to solve itsproblem of working capital and implement investment plans,estimated at 20 billion bolivars for 1987. He did not say whenthe measure would become effective.   Venezuela's oil industry previously sold its dollar earningsto the government at 7.50 to the dollar but bought foreignexchange from its imports at 14.50 bolivars.   The new exchange rate will promote purchases of domesticgoods and services by the industry, Azpur said. He added thatit would also put PDVSA in a position to purchase moregovernment debt bonds.                            PDVSA had available liquid assets of 20 billion bolivars atthe start of this year, of which nine billion were in a trustfund in the Central Bank of Venezuela (BCV) and placed ingovernment bonds.  According to a contract between PDVSA and the central bank,the BCV must provide cash as the oil industry requries byrepurchasing the bonds.    PDVSA's contribution to the treasury last year was 44.480billion bolivars. It foreign earnings for oil and petrochemcialsales were 8.023 billion dlrs. Reuter
HENLEY <HENG.O> HAS VENEZUELAN REFINERY PROJECT Henley Group Inc's M.W. Kellogg Cosubsidiary said it in consortium with <Inelectra> received acontract from Corpoven S.A., a Venezuelan-owned domestic oilcompany, to revamp and expand its El Palito Refinery.    Kellogg said the installed cost of the work to be performedis estimated to be 130 mln dlrs. Inelectra, Kellogg said, is amajor Venezuelan engineering firm.   Kellog said the project will enable the refinery to produceBTX products -- benzene, toluene, and orthoxylene -- byprocessing naphtha feed from an expanded reformer-hydrotreater.    Kellogg said the refinery's reformer-hydrotreater will beupgraded to 9,500 barrels a day capacity from 7,500.    It said the new BTX process units include aromaticextraction, xylene fractionation, xylene isomerization andthermal hydrodealkylation.    Kellogg pointed out that Venezuela now imports all of itsBTX aromatics. Reuter
VENEZUELA BUDGET SEES 16.35 DLRS OIL PRICE Venezuela's government tomorrow presentsa 1988 budget proposal for 183.432 billion bolivars, based uponan oil price of 16.35 dlrs per barrel, finance minister ManuelAzpurua said.    Azpurua told reporters after a cabinet meeting the newbudget projects ordinary income of 149.925 billion bolivars andextraordinary income of 34.186 billion. Oil revenues areexpected to produce 92.014 billion, or 61 pct of the total.    The finance minister said the oil revenue projection isbased on an average price of 16.35 dlrs per barrel in 1988.Venezuelan oil through the first half of 1987 has averaged 16.20 dlrs per barrel, according to the state oil companyPetroleos de Venezuela, S.A. Reuter
JAPAN UNDERSTANDS U.S. ATTACK ON IRAN OIL PLATFORM Japan said it understood why the U.S.Attacked an Iranian oil platform on Monday.    "Japan, deeply concerned over the increasing threat to theships navigating in the Gulf, understands the circumstancesthat have led the United States government to take thesemeasures," the Foreign Ministry said in a statement.    The statement added that the threat to free and safenavigation had increased after the missile attack on aU.S.-flagged tanker in Kuwaiti territorial waters last Friday. REUTER
MALAYSIA ADVISED TO RAISE CRUDE OIL OUTPUT IN 1988 Malaysia's national oil company,Petronas, has advised the government to raise crude oil outputto 540,000 barrels a day (bpd) in 1988 from a current 500,000bpd, a senior company official said.    "We have the capacity to produce the amount," Rastam Hadi,Petronas's Vice-President for Upstream Sector said.    The government will announce its decision on Friday when itunveils the country's budget. Malaysia raised output this monthto current levels from 420,000 bpd after reviewing the worldoil market. In May, Malaysia cut output to 420,000 bpd from459,000 in response to a call by OPEC to boost prices. REUTER
WORLD COULD COPE WITH HORMUZ CLOSURE, SUBROTO SAYS Oil prices would skyrocket for a time ifconflict in the Gulf closed the Strait of Hormuz, but oilsupplies could be adjusted to take care of world demand,Indonesian Energy Minister Subroto said.    He made no explicit reference to the latest U.S. Militaryaction in the Gulf.    But in an address to a conference of the IndonesianPetroleum Association, he said, "If worst comes to worst and saythe flow of oil through the Straits of Hormuz is completelyshut off, I believe the world oil supply, given time to adjust,can take care of the situation."    "But this is not to say that prices, at least for a shortduration, will not skyrocket as speculators take advantage ofthe situation," he declared.    Tensions in the Gulf, however, usually had a relativelyshort-term impact on prices, he added.    Assessing future price trends, he said, "Short-term spotprices will probably still fluctuate, but they will most likelyhover around the official Opec price basket of 18 dlrs perbarrel.    "The upward deviations, however, are likely to be greaterthan the downward ones."    "The balance between supply and demand in the short termwill still be delicate," he added. "Non-Opec production may stillgo up, competing with Opec for the expected additional increasein world demand."    Subroto, a member of Opec's three-man quota committee whichhas been touring cartel members, said speculation may playhavoc with spot prices, but Opec was trying to stabilize thesituation by urging cooperation by non-Opec producers.    In the medium term, non-Opec production would reach aplateau in the early 1990s, leaving Opec much stronger, hesaid. REUTER
IRAN SAYS U.S. RAID CAUSED 500 MLN DLRS DAMAGE U.S. Attacks on two Iranian oil platformsin the Gulf -- both of which were still blazing -- causeddamage estimated at 500 mln dlrs, Tehran Radio quoted IranianOil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeh as saying.    The rigs, one of which was heavily shelled by four Americandestroyers on Monday, were still burning almost 24 hours afterthe attack and could cause widespread pollution in the Gulf,the minister told a news conference in Tehran. He said theReshadat rigs, 120 miles (200 km) east of Bahrain ininternational waters, were in the final stages ofreconstruction after an attack by Iraqi jets last year. REUTER
IRANIAN PREMIER REITERATES WARNING OF RETALIATION Iranian Premier Mir-Hossein Mousavireiterated his country would retaliate for U.S. Navy attacks onGulf oil platforms.    "The U.S. Attack on Iran's oil platforms jeopardises ournational sovereignty ... And we will retaliate properly forthis perfidious American aggression," Mousavi told a newsconference in Damascus.  On Monday U.S. Navy warships blastedthe Rostam platform, and Navy personnel stormed a secondplatform a few miles away. Washington said the operation wasaimed at destroying positions used by Iran to track and assaultneutral Gulf shipping. REUTER
INDONESIA FINDS NEW OFFSHORE OIL AND GAS RESOURCES The Indonesian state-owned oil companyPertamina has found new offshore oil and gas resources in EastAceh, on the western tip of northern Sumatra, a companyspokesman said.    The spokesman said the discovery was made at the GOS IA-1offshore exploratory well about 38 kms east of Langsa in Aceh.    "Oil and gas are found in sand layers at the depth of 2,300metres within the Baong formation," he said.    He said preliminary tests showed that the well could flowoil at the rate of 1,320 barrels a day with 50 degrees API at20 degrees centigrade through a 5/8 inch choke.    "The well also flows natural gas at the rate of 12 mlnstandard cubic feet a day," he added.    GOS IA-1 well, located at a water depth of 41 metres, wasdrilled under a production sharing contract between Pertaminaand Japex North Sumatra Ltd, each having 50 pct shares.    "Petroleum operations are to be carried out by Pertamina asoperator through a joint operating body established by the twocompanies," the Pertamina spokesman stated.    The contract covers the Gebang block contract area. The twocompanies have previously completed the drilling of GOS IIA-1exploratory well, around 14 kms south of GOS IA-1. REUTER
INDONESIA SAYS IT WILL EXTEND OIL CONTRACTS Indonesia told the oil industry onTuesday it will extend contracts on producing blocks andimprove the investment climate, but wants to see increasedexpenditure on exploration in return.    President Suharto, in an opening speech to the IndonesianPetroleum Association, said Indonesia was ready to extendcontracts held by foreign oil companies on producing areas.    "In order to boost investment in the petroleum industry, thegovernment of Indonesia has basically approved of extendingproduction sharing contracts under the present laws," Suhartosaid.    "Apart from that, the government will keep improving theinvestment climate in order to accelerate the development ofthe petroleum industry," he said.    Indonesian Energy Minister Subroto told the Association hewas aware that the oil industry needed to be assured thatcontracts on blocks expiring within the next 10 years would berenewed before they would invest in further exploration.    "As we all have heard this morning, the President is fullyaware of this situation," Subroto said.    "The government has already made the political decision toentertain this time problem by inviting the existing producersto continue their activities in Indonesia, albeit on aselective basis."    Indonesia, one of the 13 members of OPEC, must find new oilreserves if it is to remain an exporter in the next decade, oilindustry sources say.    Subroto said the government was also working to ease otherproblems, including granting easier terms for remote areas ordeep water conditions.    But Subroto said relations with oil companies were two-wayand that they should step up expenditure on oil exploration nowthat the oil price had recovered.    President Suharto said he wanted to see greater transfer oftechnology to Indonesian companies, and more help from the oilindustry for the regions in which companies operated.    Abdul Rachman Ramly, the President of state oil companyPertamina, has said that budgeted exploration and productionexpenditure for all oil companies in Indonesia was forecast tofall to 3.1 billion dlrs in calendar 1987 from 3.4 billion in1986.    Pertamina has 69 production-sharing or joint operationcontracts with foreign oil companies.    Subroto said speeding up necessary approvals for fieldoperations was a government priority. There had beenmisunderstandings between the government and the oil industryin certain areas, such as when a field is designatedcommercial, and a thorough evaluation was being made.    He said the government wanted to finalise contractextensions as soon as practical, and urged the industry in themeantime to maintain its exploration drive.    Subroto said Indonesia needed the companies to maintainexploration efforts, even if their contract was due to expirewithin 10 years. "This need in itself is some sort of guaranteethat we will soon have to come up with an extension agreement."    Eleven major contract areas are due to come up for renewalbetween 1991 and 2001, industry sources said.    Extension of the contracts on the blocks has involveddetailed negotiations but so far no extension has been granted.    Subroto told reporters afterwards that contract extensionswould be selective, based on how much capital would beinvested. REUTER
IRANIAN PREMIER REITERATES WARNING OF RETALIATION Iranian Premier Mir-Hossein Mousavireiterated his country would retaliate for U.S. Navy attacks onGulf oil platforms.    "The U.S. Attack on Iran's oil platforms jeopardises ournational sovereignty ... And we will retaliate properly forthis perfidious American aggression," Mousavi told a newsconference in Damascus.  On Monday U.S. Navy warships blastedthe Rostam platform, and Navy personnel stormed a secondplatform a few miles away. Washington said the operation wasaimed at destroying positions used by Iran to track and assaultneutral Gulf shipping. REUTER
NORWAY BOOSTS OIL OUTPUT BY 22 PCT IN SEPTEMBER Norway's September oil output rose by 22.2pct to 1.07 mln barrels per day (bpd) from 830,492 bpd inAugust, according to a Reuter survey of firms operating here.    Operators said the sharp rise reflected higher output atseveral of Norway's biggest fields and resumed production atfields shut down for 27 days in August for the Ekofisk fieldrescue project.    Industry analysts said the increase did not exceed Norway'svoluntary move to curb by 7.5 pct planned growth in its oiloutput, a move designed to back OPEC-led efforts to stabiliseoil prices by limiting supplies to world crude markets.    Norway, not an OPEC member, decided in June to extend theproduction restraints, enforced since February 1 1987, on allits North Sea fields for the rest of the year.    Oil Minister Arne Oeien said last month he expected Norwaywould extend into 1988 its policy of slowed production growth.    The biggest increase was seen on the Ekofisk field, whichpumped 168,023 bpd in September against 48,195 bpd in August,field operator Phillips Petroleum Norway Inc said.    Ekofisk and the nearby Valhall and Ula fields, which usethe Ekofisk pipeline, were shut down for most of August whilePhillips raised Ekofisk platforms to counter seabed subsidence.    BP Petroleum Development Norway Ltd, operator of the Ulafield, said September output rose to 86,727 bpd after droppingto 27,237 bpd in August because of the shutdown.    Valhall, operated by Amoco Norway A/S, flowed 74,694 bpdlast month compared with 69,748 bpd in August, the companysaid.    September production was also sharply higher at theStatfjord field. Norway's 84 pct share of Statfjord, whichextends into the British North Sea sector, was 611,138 bpdagainst 552,646 bpd in August, operator Den Norske StatsOljeselskap A/S (Statoil) said.    Norway's 22.2 pct share of the Murchison field which, likeStatfjord, extends into the British sector, yielded 15,388 bpdin September, a slight 920 bpd decrease from the previousmonth, Norwegian partners on the British-operated field said.    Statoil boosted output at its Gullfaks field to 109,670 bpdin September, compared with 100,188 in August.    Norsk Hydro, operator of the Oseberg field, said testoutput at the field from the mobile production ship Petro Jarltotalled 1,719 bpd last month, down sharply from 16,170 bpd inAugust.    Hydro said the drop was caused by failure to bring onstream a second well, cutting September production to just twodays. REUTER
IRAN LEADER VOWS REVENGE ON US RAID IN COMING DAYS Iran's top war spokesman Ali AkbarHashemi Rafsanjani on Tuesday called the U.S. Attacks on two ofits Gulf oil platforms an escalation and promised retaliation.    "God willing, we will carry out our duty in the coming daysand make them sorry," said Rafsanjani in a speech to Parliamentlater broadcast by Tehran Radio.    The Tehran leadership have been quick to threaten vengeanceafter the U.S. Raids on the rigs, one of which was destroyed.    President Ali Khamenei, Prime Minister Mir-Hossein Mousaviand now Rafsanjani within 24 hours of the U.S. Action have allvowed retaliation.    Rafsanjani, the parliamentary speaker, said, "It is not athreat or an attempt at intimidation when we say we willrespond to aggression -- it is a reality and we have proved itin practice." He added that the American attack "squares neitherwith its superpower image nor its claim of concern withsecurity, nor reason and wisdom."    U.S. Warships shelled an Iranian offshore oil platform andAmerican special forces boarded another, destroying equipment.    The U.S. Government said the attack was a measured responseto an Iranian missile attack on the American-flagged Kuwaititanker Sea Isle City in Kuwaiti waters last Friday. REUTER
PHILLIPS <P> RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES Phillips Petroleum Corp said it raisedthe contract price it will pay for all grades of crude oil by50 cts a barrel, effective Oct 16.    The increase brings the company's postings for the WestTexas Intermediate and West Texas Sour grades to 19.00 dlrs abarrel.    Phillips last changed it crude oil postings on Sept 9. Reuter
IRAN, SOVIETS TO HOLD TALKS ON OIL EXCHANGE DEAL Iran and the Soviet Union haveprovisionally agreed to hold talks on a possible exchange ofIranian crude oil for finished Soviet oil products, an officialspokesman said Tuesday.    Gennady Gerasimov, chief of the Soviet Foreign Ministry'sInformation Directorate, told reporters the agreement had beenreached during a visit to Moscow last week by Iran's OilMinister Gholamreza Aqazadeh.    Gerasimov said no date had been set for the talks, whichwould also study the possibility of Soviet technical assistancefor Iran's oil industry. REUTER
US WARNS IRAN, BEGINS ESCORTING TANKER CONVOY The United States warned Iran again that it was ready to retaliate for any further hostile militaryaction in the Gulf as U.S. warships began escorting anothertanker convoy southward from Kuwait.    U.S. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said the U.S.sought no further Gulf hostitilies but was ready to deal withany Iranian response to Monday's attack on an Iranian oil rig.    Several hours later, the Pentagon announced that U.S.warships had begun escorting two U.S. flag Kuwaiti tankers --the 80,000 ton product carrier Ocean City and 46,000 tonliquified petroleum tanker Gas King -- southward from Kuwait.    The Defense Department said the 12th such convoy of U.S.flagged Kuwaiti tankers through the Gulf began at 0230 EDTunder the escort by the U.S. guided missile frigate Ford. Itdid not say what oth U.S. warships were in the area.    "It (the convoy) is now progressing uneventfully in thecentral Gulf," the Pentagon statement said.    Asked on NBC's "Today" program if the United States wasprepared for a major war with Iran, Weinberger said, "Well weare prepared I think for whatever eventualities emerge fromthis situation but we don't look on it as a war." REUTER
SOVIET 1988 OIL OUTPUT TARGET AT 625 MLN TONNES The Soviet oil production target for 1988has been set at 625 mln tonnes, a rise of eight mln tonnes overthis year's planned output.    Oil Minister Vasily Dinkov announced the figure on Tuesdayat the Supreme Soviet, the country's nominal parliament.    He said a new development strategy, fuller use of oildeposits and better housing and pay for oilmen had allowed anupsurge in the oil industry after three years of stagnationwhich began in late 1983.    Last year the Soviet Union produced 615 mln tonnes of oil,slightly short of the target of 616.7 mln.    January-September figures released at the weekend showedSoviet oil output in the first nine months of this year at 467mln tonnes. The 1987 target is 617 million.    Dinkov said the Soviet Union would develop 38 new oildeposits in the coming year. He called for speedier geologprospecting across the country to spur the oil industry.    The Supreme Soviet convened on Monday to endorse the 1988budget and plan. The session is expected to end on Tuesday. REUTER
US RULED OUT ATTACK ON IRANIAN SILKWORMS U.S. military planners ruled outIran's Silkworm missiles as a target in the retaliatory attackmounted on Monday for fear of being drawn more deeply into theIran-Iraq war, defense and Middle East experts said.    U.S. naval forces destroyed an offshore oil platform andraided another in what the administration called a "measured andappropriate response" to an Iranian Silkworm missile attack lastFriday on a U.S.-flagged tanker in Kuwaiti waters.    Private analysts generally agreed that going after the rigrather than an onshore economic or military target such asSilkworm launch sites reflected a careful bid by Washington tolimit the political, military and diplomatic fallout both athome and in the Gulf.    "It simply demonstrated the United States will take militaryaction when they (Iran) take military action," Norman Polmar, adefense analyst and author, said.    He said hitting the platforms had spared Iran theembarrassment of casualties on its own soil, possibly avoidingan escalating spiral of attack and counterattack.    In addition, it minimized the risk to U.S. forces and thepotential embarrassment of any losses, including aircraft thatcould have been shot down had they taken part in an attack.    Anthony Cordesman, author of a new book on the Iran-Iraqwar, said the United States apparently chose a limited targetto keep alive the possibility that U.N. Secretary GeneralJavier Perez de Cuellar might still persuade Iran to accept aSecurity Council call for a ceasefire.    "We want the U.N. peace initiative to work if there's anychance at all," he said, adding that the action made it cleartougher steps would follow if Iran to attack Gulf shipping.   In targeting an oil rig -- albeit one said by the Pentagonto have been turned into a military command post -- Washingtonalso sent a message that it might be willing to attack Iran'seconomic lifeline. Pentagon officials said the platform hadbeen used as a base for Iranian raids against shipping in thelower Gulf.    "We have chosen a military target, but we also have shownIran that we are willing to interfere with its oil-exportingcapabilities," Cordesman said.    He predicted the United States would respond to any futuremajor Iranian challenges by hitting Iran's naval base at BandarAbbas on the Straits of Hormuz, followed by mining theapproaches to Iran's oil export terminal on Kharg Island.    Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said on Monday theUnited States did not seek further confrontation with Iran, "butwe will be prepared to meet any escalation of military actionby Iran with stronger countermeasures."  Reuter
OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF SALE POSTPONED Outer Continental Shelf oil and gaslease sale number 97 in the Beaufort Sea, tentativelyschedualed for January 1988 has been postponed, the U.S.Department of Interior said.    Alan Powers, chief of the Minerals Maanagement Service forthe department, said the delay is to have more time to studythe effects of drilling noise on whale migrations.    Powers said the state has asked for additional noise datafor the sale area off Alaska's North Slope. A new date has notbeen set, but it will likely be no sooner than next March,Powers said.    Some 3,930 blocks encompassing about 21 mln acres areinvolved in the proposed sale. The area is between three and160 miles off the northern coast of Alaska in the Artic Oceanbetween the Canadian border and 162 degrees west longitude. Reuter
ECUADOR'S CEPE NAMES NEW HEAD The state-run Ecuadorean State OilCorporation (CEPE) has named Jaime Sanchez Valdivieso as itsnew general manager replacing Carlos Romo Leroux, a CEPEspokesman said.    The spokesman told Reuters Sanchez is a 46-year-old civilengineer who formerly headed CEPE's administration and financesdivision.    Romo Leroux resigned last week for "personal and family"reasons, the spokesman said. Reuter
AMOCO RAISES MOST CRUDE POSTINGS 50 CTS TODAY, WTI TO 19 <Johnson Geneva U.S.A.> said it hasagreed to buy Pan Am Corp's 50 pct holding in their jointventure company, Pan Am Pacific Satellite Corp, for undisclosedterms.    Johnson Geneva said Pan Am divested owership in the projectas part of a corporate restructuring plan, but will continue toprovide engineering services on a contract basis.    Johnson Geneva said the buy out was accomplished through<Onpraise Ltd>, a Hong Kong company controlled by JohnsonGeneva Chairman Michael Johnson. Funds have been provided byOnpraise to increase the satellite company's working capita. Reuter
AMOCO <AN> RAISES CRUDE PRICES Amoco Corp said it raised the contractprice it will pay for most grades of crude oil by 50 cts abarrel, effective today.    The company said the increase brings its posting for WestTexas Intermediate to 19.00 dlrs a barrel. West Texas Sour, at34 degrees API, was raised to 18.10 dlrs. The Light LouisianaSweet grade was also increased 50 cts to 19.35 dlrs a barrel.    Amoco said Wyoming Southwest Sweet, Colorado Western, andtwo Utah grades of oil, Black wax and yellow wax, wereunchanged. The company last changed its crude oil postings onSeptember 28. Reuter
TEXACO <TX> UNIT RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES Texaco Inc said it raised the contractprice it will pay for most grades of crude oil by 50 cts abarrel, effective October 16.    The company said the increase brings its posting for theU.S. benchmark grade, West Texas Intermediate, to 19.00 dlrs abarrel. The West Texas Sour and Light Louisiana Sweet gradeswere also raised 50 cts to 18.10 and 19.35 dlrs a barrel,respectively.    Texaco last changed its crude oil postings on September 15. Reuter
API SAYS DISTILLATES OFF 1.95 MLN BARRELS, GASOLINE OFF 3.98 MLN, CRUDE UP  TRW Inc said it was selected toperform fact-finding security system surveys for the authoritythat is building Kansai International Airport in Osaka, Japan.    The company said the 340,000 dlr contract was significantbecause it was the first contract issued by the authoritysolely to an American company without Japanese partners.    The contract calls for TRW to perform studies of otherinternational airport security systems on behalf of Kansai, thecompany said.    Kansai is scheduled to be operational in 1993. Reuter
CONVOY RUNS GULF GAUNTLET, OTHER SHIPS STAY CLEAR A new convoy of tankers escorted byAmerican warships headed down the Gulf on Wednesday, towardsIranian oil platforms still oozing smoke after having beingblasted by U.S. Navy raiders.    Some Gulf sea captains were reported to be steering wellclear of Iran's Silkworm missiles, however, and frontlineemirate Kuwait redeployed air defences to counter the threat.    "I think the predominant feeling ... Is of being scared thisconflict will escalate," a top West German Foreign Ministryofficial, Helmut Schaefer, told reporters in Bahrain after atour of three Gulf states.b    Shipping sources said on Tuesday night at least six seacaptains had voiced fears that Iran would avenge Monday's U.S.Raids by unleashing more Silkworm missiles at ships plying theGulf.    Belgium decided two minesweepers en route for the Gulfwould stay out for the time being following Monday's U.S.Action.    But there was no sign that the prospect of more tit-for-tatassaults had reduced the level of shipping activity in thearea.    Iran, having vowed to react strongly after Monday's U.S.Action, launched a barrage of threats and ridicule.    For its part, Washington warned Iran again on Tuesday thatit was ready for any further hostile action.    Pentagon officials then announced that a U.S. Guidedmissile destroyer began escorting two Kuwaiti tankers flyingthe U.S. flag southwards--the 80,000 tonne product carrierOcean City and 46,000 tonne petroleum tanker Gas King. Reuter
ARTILLERY SHELLS SAID TO FALL ON KUWAIT BORDER Artillery shells from an exchange of firebetween Iran and Iraq fell on Kuwait's northern border onTuesday but caused no casualties, the Kuwait News Agency KUNAsaid, quoting a Defense Ministry official.    There were rumors in world oil markets on Tuesday that Iranhad fired shells at an oil camp in northern Kuwait inretaliation for U.S. Attacks on Iranian oil platforms in theGulf on Monday. "Several shells fell in a random manner on thenorthern border of the country," the official told KUNA. "Itseems these shells arose from an exchange of fire between Iranand Iraq... No one was wounded and there were no losses."    Diplomats said shells from the nearby Iran-Iraq warfronthad in the past fallen in the northern Kuwaiti desert.    A senior Kuwait Petroleum Corporation official had earliertold Reuters he was unaware of any attack against Kuwaiti oilinstallations. Reuter
SENATE BACKS U.S. RETALIATION IN GULF The U.S. Senate on Tuesday backedPresident Reagan's retaliatory strike against Iranian targetsin the Gulf as it moved to take a greater role in making policyin the volatile region.    Senators voted 92-1 for a non-binding measure that endorsedMonday's U.S. attack on two Iranian oil platforms inretaliation for an Iranian attack last Friday on a Kuwaiti shipflying the American flag.    The measure said the attack was a firm indication of U.S.resolve that Iran "cannot take military action against theUnited States with impunity."    Earlier, the Senate cut off Republican stalling tactics andset a vote on a measure that could give Congress a larger rolein making Gulf policy. The measure, however, does not requireReagan to comply with the 1973 War Powers Act, which could leadto a pullout of U.S. forces from the Gulf.    While Democrats and Republicans praised the U.S.retaliatory strike, many voiced new fears about the growingU.S. involvement in the Gulf and some demanded that Reagancomply with the War Powers Act. Reuter
EX-ARCO <ARC> CHIEF SEES ENERGY CRISIS BY 1990 Dwindling global crude oil reserves andthe lack of any major new discoveries in recent years will sendthe world into an energy crisis by 1990, the former AtlanticRichfield Co chairman Robert O. Anderson said.    "It's going to come sooner than anyone thinks," Andersontold reporters after addressing a Houston business lunch. "Ibelieve we're going to see a change in the world oil markets intwo to three years because oil is becoming harder to find."    Anderson, who retired from Arco last year to form Hondo Oiland Gas Co, said world oil consumption is approaching 60 mlnbarrels a day but a current excess capacity cushion of about4.5 mln barrels a day will rapidly disappear.    "If you looked around the world, you could not scrape upone mln barrels a day in shut-in production outside the MiddleEast," he said. "We're soon going to be right back where wewere in 1973 and 1979."    Anderson predicted that world oil prices would end 1987 atabout 24 dlrs a barrel and continue a gradual climb.    "There's no way prices can stay flat because there isn'tenough supply," he said. "There have been no major oildiscoveries for the past 15 to 20 years."    Alaska's Prudhoe Bay oil reserves, the last major worlddiscovery, has already produced about five billion barrels ofoil or more than half of its estimated reserves, he said. Reuter
VENEZUELA BACKS INCREASE IN ECUADOR OPEC QUOTA Venezuela will back Ecuador's bid toraise its OPEC quota above 221,000 barrels per day (bpd)because it is a justifiable demand, Venezuelan Energy MinisterArturo Hernandez Grisanti said on Monday.    He told reporters the country deserved a higher quota incompensation for the five months it was forced to suspend oilproduction when its main pipeline was destroyed by anearthquake last March.    "For this five-month period, Ecuador did not exercise itsright to produce 221,000 bpd," he said. "We should recognizeEcuador's right to increase its quota ... There is a basis ofjustice in that country's petition."    He added however, the quota increase should be gradual toavoid harming the market, he added.    Hernandez Grisanti said he understood Ecuador wouldformally submit the request for a higher quota at the nextministerial conference of the Organization of PetroleumExporting Countries (OPEC) opening December 9 in Vienna. Reuter
FRANCE SAYS U.S. HAD RIGHT TO STRIKE France voiced its comprehension for a U.S.Attack on an Iranian target while calling for a swift halt tothe Gulf War to avoid further escalation.    "The French authorities reaffirm their attachment to thefreedom and security of navigation and to the right of allstates to take action under international law and the UnitedNations charter to halt attacks such as that of October 16," theForeign Ministry spokesman said in a statement.    The United States said its forces destroyed an Iranian oilplatform in the Gulf and struck at a second on Monday inretaliation for a recent Iranian missile attack on aU.S.-flagged Kuwaiti ship.    Washington said the platforms were used to monitor shippingand to launch small-boat attacks on shipping. The Frenchstatement described the target as "an Iranian military platform."    But the French statement added that "everything must be donenow to avoid that these military developments lead to a newescalation of the conflict." Reuter
U.S. LAWMAKERS SUPPORT GULF ACTION American lawmakers rallied behindPresident Reagan for the U.S. strike against Iranian targets inthe Gulf but the attack fueled a sharp new White House-Congressdebate over limits on his powers to make war.    The Pentagon announced on Monday that U.S. warshipsdestroyed a non-producing oil platform used for monitoring Gulfship traffic and military operations, and also raided a secondIranian oil rig in retaliation for an earlier Iranian attack ona Kuwaiti ship flying the American flag.    Many Democrats, who control Congress, and Republicansexpressed support for the attack and praised it as anappropriate "measured response."    But Democrats and liberal Republicans voiced new fears thatthe growing confrontation between Tehran and the United Statescould erupt into a major war, and demanded that Reagan complywith the 1973 War Powers Act, which could lead to a pullout ofAmerican forces from the waterway.    "Those who contend the strike was necessary must realizetheir words are easily construed as a tacit endorsement of warwith Iran," said Sen Mark Hatfield of Oregon, a Republican. Reuter
IRAN FOREIGN MINISTER TELLS CUBA OF GULF SITUATION Iranian foreign minister ali akbarvelayati, here on a two-day official visit, informed cubanforeign ministry officials on monday on the tense situation inthe gulf, diplomatic sources said.    They said the envoy's trip, to be followed from tuesday bya visit to nicaragua, could be linked to a possible mediationof the non-aligned movement in the seven-year-old iran-iraq warbut they ruled out any prominent cuban role in it.    Velayati could not be reached for comment on the U.S.Attack on an abandoned iranian oil rig on monday which tehranvowed to avenge. Reuter
UNOCAL <UCL> RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTED PRICES Unocal Corp said it raised its postedprices for most U.S. grades of crude oil by 50 cts a barrel,effective October 16.    The move brings the price the company will pay for the U.S.benchmark grade, West Texas Intermediate, and West Texas Sourto 19 dlrs a barrel.    The price was last changed September 9, Unocal said. Reuter
ARCO <ARC> RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 50 CTS Atlantic Richfield's Arco Oil and Gas Cosaid it increased contract prices for crude oil by 50 cts abarrel, effective today.    Arco said the 50 cts increase brings its posted price forWest Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark grade, to 19.00dlrs a barrel.    The price of West Texas Sour was increased to 18.10 dlrs.Light Louisiana Sweet was raised to 19.35 dlrs.    The price was last changed on September 30. Reuter
ARCO RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES 50 CTS BARREL, TODAY, WTI  Taco Bell Corp, a unit of Pepsico Inc,said it increased its stake in Calny Inc common stock to1,349,884 shares, or 27.9 pct of the total outstanding, from aprevious figure of approximately 1,230,107 shares, or 25.4 pct.    In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,Taco Bell said it bought 119,867 Calny common shares on October15 and 16 at 10.75 dlrs a share.    No reason was given for the recent purchases. Reuter
BRITAIN BACKS U.S. STRIKE ON IRAN OIL PLATFORM British Foreign Secretary Sir GeoffreyHowe backed the United States' attack on an Iranian oilplatform on Monday and said it should not worsen the Gulfcrisis.    "The United States is fully entitled to take military actionin exercise of rights of self-defense, in the face of theimminent threat of further attacks," Howe said in a statementissued in London.    The United States said its forces destroyed the platform onMonday in retaliation for an Iranian missile attack on a U.S.-flagged Kuwaiti ship last Friday.    Referring to that attack, Howe added, "I trust the Iranianswill fully understand that continued attacks of this kind willonly enhance justification for firm action in self-defense."    At a press conferenced in Luxembourg during a meeting ofEuropean Community (EC) ministers, Howe was asked aboutstatements from a senior Iranian official who said America wasnow involved in a full-scale war.    "It would be profoundly undesirable and quite unjustifiedfor Iran to react in that way," he said. Reuter
DIPLOMATS CALL U.S. ATTACK ON OIL RIG RESTRAINED A U.S. attack on an Iranian oil platformin the Gulf on Monday appeared to be a tit-for-tat raidcarefully orchestrated not to be too provocative or upset Araballies, Western diplomats in the region said.    U.S. Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger said Monday thatU.S. Warships destroyed the oil platform in the southern Gulfin response to a missile strike on the American-registeredKuwaiti tanker Sea Isle City in Kuwaiti waters on Friday.    "We consider the matter closed," he said, a signal the U.S.administration did not want the Gulf crisis to escalate.    Iran had warned the United States earlier in the dayagainst exacerbating the Gulf crisis, saying military actionwould endanger American interests.    Following the raid, a okesman for Tehran's WarInformation Headquarters vowed to avenge the attack with a"crushing blow."    "The United States has entered a swamp from which it can inno way get out safely," Tehran Radio quoted him as saying.    Diplomats noted, however, Iran was also seeking to avoidostracism by Arab states due to meet at a summit in Amman onNovember 8 and discuss the Iran-Iraq war.    Iranian Prime Minister Mir-Hossein Mousavi is currently inDamascus, and diplomats said he would seek Syrian help inpreventing a total Arab breach with Tehran.    Further escalation of the war threatening the Gulf Arabstates could work against Tehran at the Amman gathering, theysaid.    "The ball is in Iran's court now. It's up to Tehran torespond one way or the other," a diplomat said.    President Ronald Reagan warned Iran of stronger Americancountermeasures if the military escalation continued.    Western diplomats and military sources in the area saidshelling the platform appeared to be the least provocative actthe United States could have taken once it had decided toretaliate for the tanker attack, blamed by both the Americansand Kuwaitis on Iran.    "It's interesting that they chose something in internationalwaters because it doesn't implicate any other nation," onediplomat said. "This was better for U.S. Relations with the GulfArab states, particularly Kuwait."    Commented another diplomat: "Kuwait must be happy that theU.S. Has done something, but relieved that Faw was not attackedon its doorstep."    One source said of the attack on the oil platform: "Theymanaged to warn off the crew and hit something that was theleast nuisance to everybody."    A diplomat commented: "They were very clever in the placethey chose. It gets attention, but it hasn't devastatedanything because it wasn't working in the first place."    A senior Arab banker in the area said after the news broke:"This was a good, measured response without risking a flare-up... It is a face-saving response (for the Americans)." Reuter
LATEST ATTACK SEEN POINTING UP DILEMMAS FOR US Military experts say the United Statesfaces a dilemma in the Gulf following U.S. destruction of anIranian oil platform in retaliation for an attack on aU.S.-flagged tanker.    The experts told Reuters Tehran holds the initiative and islikely to control the tempo and direction of the conflict aslong as America simply reacts to Iranian attacks by launchinglimited retaliatory strikes.    But if Washington seizes the initiative with bolder steps-- such as mining Iran's harbors, blockading its shipping, ordestroying key bases -- it could find itself in a major war.    "Iran is in the driver's seat in an absolute sense as thecycle of attack and retaliation continues," said Fred Axelgard,a Gulf War expert with the private Center for Strategic andInternational Studies (CSIS).    "It's like a Greek tragedy," said retired Adm. Eugene Carrollof Washington's private Center for Defense Information (CDI)think tank.    Some Middle East experts say the only way out is forWashington to join forces with Moscow in pressing for an end tothe war between Iran and Iraq.    They say it is not feasible for America to withdraw its30-ship force from the Gulf area, where the Navy beganescorting U.S.-flagged Kuwaiti tankers in July. Withdrawal would give the appearance of being chased away by Iran, whichPresident Reagan could never accept.    U.S. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger told a Pentagonnews conference the destroyers Kidd, Young, Leftwich and Hoelfired about 1,000 rounds of five-inch shells at Iran's Rostamoil rig 120 miles east of Bahrain beginning at about 1400 Gulftime (0700 EDT) on Monday.    Weinberger said the platform had been used as a militarybase by Iran and that the attack responded to an IranianSilkworm missile strike on the U.S.-flagged Kuwaiti tanker SeaIsle City on Friday.    Iranians manning the platform were warned in advance andallowed to escape.    "We do not seek further confrontation with Iran, but we willbe prepared to meet any escalation of military action by Iranwith stronger countermeasures," Weinberger said.    "We consider this matter closed," he said.    Analysts ranging from the liberal CDI to conservativesagreed the U.S. reaction was measured, reasonable and did notescalate the conflict unduly. But they said the question waswhether Iran would consider the matter closed. It had not takenthis view after earlier clashes. Reuter
STATOIL AWARDS VESLEFRIKK OIL FIELD CONTRACTS Norwegian state oil company Den NorskeStats Oljeselskap (Statoil) signed contracts worth a total of1.5 billion Norwegian crowns in connection with the developmentof the Veslefrikk oil field, Statoil said.    Moss Rosenberg Verft of Stavanger has been awarded acontract to convert the the drilling platform West Vision to afloating production platform. The work is to be completed inthe summer of 1989.    Aker Verdal has been awarded a contract for theengineering, purchasing and construction of the steel jacketfor the wellhead platform, also to be completed in 1989,Statoil said. Reuter
ATLANTIS GROUP TELLS SEC IT SEEKS NEGOTIATED PURCHASE OF CHARTER Dynascan Corp said it completed the saleof its industrial electronic products group and expects to recognize about a 3.0 mln dlr pretax gain on the transaction inthe fourth quarter.    It said the group was sold October 15 for 13.5 mln dlrs toMaxtec International Corp, a privately held company created bythe company's management team.    It said the purchase price was 12 mln dlrs in cash and 1.5mln dlrs in five-year notes plus warrants to buy 7.0 pct of thestock of Maxtec.    Dynascan said the group was projected to provide about 12pct of its consolidated sales in 1987. Reuter
SOUTHLAND <SLC> UNIT RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES Citgo Petroleum Corp, a subsidiary ofSouthland Corp, said it raised the contract price it will payfor all grades of crude oil by 50 cts a barrel, effective Oct16    The increase brings Citgo's postings for the West TexasIntermediate and West Texas Sour grades to 19.00 dlrs/barrel,while Light Louisiana SWeet is now priced at 19.35 dlrs.    Citgo last changed it crude oil postings on Sept 9. Reuter
VENEZUELA SEES OIL STABILITY DESPITE GULF ATTACK Venezuelan Energy Minister ArturoHernandez Grisanti said he foresaw market stability in theprice of crude, despite growing tension in the Gulf augmentedby the U.S. military attack on an Iranian oil platform.    He told a news conference the market continues to be stabledespite all the military action in the Gulf. Reuter
AMPLE SUPPLIES LIMIT U.S. STRIKE'S OIL PRICE IMPACT Ample supplies of OPEC crude weighing onworld markets helped limit and then reverse oil price gainsthat followed the U.S. Strike on an Iranian oil platform in theGulf earlier on Monday, analysts said.    December loading rose to 19.65 dlrs, up 45 cents beforefalling to around 19.05/15 later, unchanged from last Friday.    "Fundamentals are awful," said Philip Lambert, analyst withstockbrokers Kleinwort Grieveson, adding that total OPECproduction in the first week of October could be above 18.5 mlnbpd, little changed from September levels.    Peter Nicol, analyst at Chase Manhattan Bank, said OPECproduction could be about 18.5-19.0 mln in October. Reuter andInternational Energy Agency (IEA) estimates put OPEC Septemberproduction at 18.5 mln bpd.    The U.S. Attack was in retaliation of last Friday's hit ofa Kuwaiti oil products tanker flying the U.S. Flag, the SeaIsle City. It was struck by a missile, believed to be Iranian,in Kuwaiti waters, and was the first hit on a U.S. Flagcommercial vessel in the seven year Iran/Iraq war.    The U.S. Owned Liberian flag tanker Sungari was hit in thearea on Thursday, also believed struck by an Iranian missile.    Refiners were not significant purchasers of physical oil onMonday as a result increased Gulf tension following the U.S.Attack, analysts said.    They said a closure of the Strait of Hormuz, through whicharound eight mln bpd passes, isnlikely because it is not inthe interests of the U.S. Or Iran, they said.    Any threat to oil supplies would stem from an increase inthe number of tanker attacks as part of a widening of Gulfhostilities, analysts said.    But they saw the U.S. Strike as a limited reply to Iranianmissile attacks, with some describing it as responsible.    Geoffrey Pyne, analyst at stockbrokers Phillips and Drew,said he was impressed by the sensible U.S. Response.    "The U.S. Has thought carefully about what would correspondto Iranian agression. They have proved to the Iranians that anyfurther action will be met with a like-for-like response.Today's action by the U.S. Was not escalatory," Pyne said.    Kleinwort Grieveson's Lambert said the U.S. Strike was "aresponsible retaliation," with the U.S. Apparently indicating toIran that it could increase the severity of its attacksf Iranchose to raise the level of conflict.    Chase Manhattan's Nicol took a different view, however.    He said he was unable to see what the U.S. Had achieved asArab states such as Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, whose intereststhe U.S. Is supposedly defending, will feel less secure as aresult of the U.S. Attack and fear some sort of Iranianretaliation.    The initial upward market move this morning reflected astrong speculative reaction to rumours of a U.S. Attack whichwas thought at one stage to have been against Iranian missilelaunchers on the Faw Peninsula, close to Kuwait, analysts said.    The later downtrend followed confirmation of a U.S. Navyattack on an Iranian oil platform by the U.S. Defence SecretaryCaspar Weinburger.    Market operators were able to evaluate the situation in theGulf on the basis of confirmed fact, and finding it lessserious than first thought, took profits, taking prices lower,analysts and traders said. REUTER
IRAN VOWS REPRISAL FOR U.S. ATTACK ON OIL RIG Iran said several people were injured inMonday's U.S. Attack on an Iranian offshore oil site and vowedretaliation, Tehran radio reported.    It quoted President Ali Khamenei as saying, "We willdefinitely retaliate and will not leave this American moveunanswered."    A broadcast monitored in Nicosia said several civilianpersonnel on the Rashadat oil platforms in the Gulf east ofQatar were injured when U.S. Warships bombarded them thisafternoon. It described damage as "severe."    Washington said four American frigates shelled anddestroyed two Iranian platforms at the Rashadat (formerlyRostam) field at 1100 GMT on Monday in response to Friday'smissile attack on a U.S.-flag ship in Kuwaiti waters.    The U.S. Said Iranians used the platforms for militarypruposes and had fired on an American helicopter from the rigsearlier this month.    Khamenei denied that the platforms had military gear orpersonnel and said the U.S. Attack lacked miltary value.    "With this move Mr. Reagan has committed a big mistake andhas definitely increased his problems... REUTER
SECURITY COUNCIL CALLS TALKS AFTER GULF ATTACK The U.N. Security Council wascalled to a private meeting on Monday for consultations following the United States attack on an Iranian oil platform.    Meanwhile, a U.N. spokesman said that as far as he knew areport to the council and Secretary General Javier Perez deCuellar on the action had not been received from the Americans.    In Washington, President Reagan said the United Nations wasbeing informed of the attack under the provision of the U.N.Charter regarding notification of actions taken under the rightof self-defense.    The U.N. spokesman, Francois Giuliani, said Perez deCuellar had no comment on the attack, taken in response toIranian action against an American-owned tanker last week, butwas trying to find out "what actually happened."    Calls to Iran's U.N. commission elicited no response. Reuter
IRAN SAYS US ATTACK INVOLVES IT IN FULL-SCALE WAR A top Iranian military official saidAmerica's attack on an Iranian oil platform on Monday hadinvolved the United States in full-scale war and Iran wouldavenge it with a "crushing blow."    "The United States has entered a swamp from which it can inno way get out safely," the Iranian news agency IRNA quoted thehead of Iran's war information headquarters as saying.    The official, Kamal Kharrazi, said Washington had nowbecome involved in what he called a full-fledged war with Iran.    It was the first official Iranian reaction to the attack byfour U.S. Navy destroyers on the Reshadat oil platform. Reuter
USX <X> UNIT HIKES CRUDE OIL POSTED PRICES Marathon Petroleum Company, a subsidiaryof USX Corp, said it lowered posted prices for crude oil by 50cts with an effective date of October 16.    The increase brings posted prices for West TexasIntermediate and West Texas Sour to 19.00 dlrs a barrel each.South Louisiana Sweet was increased to 19.35 dlrs a barrel.    Several indepndent oil companies such as Permian Corp andCoastal Corp <CGP> said they had moved prices up effective lastFriday the day Sun Co <SUN> announced a 50 cts a barrelincrease to 19.00 dlrs a barrel. Reuter
MARATHON RAISED CRUDE POSTED PRICES BY 50 CTS A BARREL EFFECTIVE OCT Oper shr 70 cts vs 18 cts    Oper net 39.1 mln vs 10.0 mln    Sales 543.6 mln vs 489.6 mln    Year    Oper shr 2.83 dlrs vs 1.82 dlrs    Oper net 159.7 mln vs 106.9 mln    Sales 2.13 billion vs 1.94 billion    Avg shrs 56.4 mln vs 58.6 mln    NOTE: Results restated for discontinued engineeringservices operations.    Prior year net excludes losses from discontinued operationsof 143,000 dlrs in quarter and 102,156 dlrs in year.    Fiscal 1987 year net excludes 4,081,000 dlr charge fromearly debt retirement.    Fiscal 1986 net includes special charges 24.7 mln dlrs inquarter and 37.2 mln dlrs in year from worgroce reductioncosts, revaluation of South African investment, reversal ofinvestment tax credits and othe4r items. Reuter
COASTAL <CGP> RAISES OIL POSTED PRICES Coastal Corp said that effective October16 it had raised posted prices for crude oil by 50 cts abarrel.    The increase brings West Texas Intermediate to 9.00 dlrs abarrel and West Texas Sour to 18.10 dlrs a barrel.    Sun Co <SUN> announced that it would make a 50 cts a barrelincrease late Friday bringing WTI to 19.00 dlrs a barrel andtraders said that other oil companies could be expected toincrease prices. Reuter
TASS DENOUNCES U.S. ATTACK ON IRAN AS ADVENTURISM The official Soviet news agency Tassdenounced a U.S. Attack on an Iranian oil-drilling platform inthe Gulf on Monday as military adventurism and said it wouldbring no dividends to the Reagan administration.    Tass commentator Mikhail Krutikhin said the administrationhad embarked on an adventurist path in order to deflectattention from the scandal in which the United States sold armsto Iran and the profits were diverted to Nicaraguan rebels.    "The confrontation is a fact now. What is obvious is thatthe latest military adventure will not bring politicaldividends to the American administration," Krutikhin said.    Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev and Foreign Minister EduardShevardnadze abruptly left a parliamentary session earlier onMonday, sparking diplomatic speculation that they wereconcerned with an urgent matter of foreign affairs.    Soviet officials have previously criticized the UnitedStates for sending naval forces into the Gulf, saying theirpresence serves to increase tension.    Moscow is officially neutral in the war between Iran andIraq. It is a major arms supplier to Iraq but has also soughtbroader contacts with Iran in the last year.    Krutikhin said: "The United States has undertaken an act ofarmed aggression against Iran, the probability of which haslong been spoken of by Washington officials." Reuter
COASTAL SAID RAISED OIL POSTINGS 50 CTS A BARREL OCTOBER 16. WTI NOW 19. Security Pacific Corp <SPC> saidgrowth in its third-quarter earnings was slowed by the purchaseof Rainier Bancorp and the suspension of interest payments onBrazilian and Ecuadorian loans that were placed on anon-accrual status earlier this year.    The bank said it earned 128.1 mln dlrs in the thirdquarter, up from 118.3 mln a year earlier. On a per-sharebasis, income was 1.16 dlrs a share, up from 1.09 dlrs.    The bank said non-recurring costs of 10.1 mln dlrsassociated with the acquisition of Rainier, a 9.5-billion-dlrSeattle-based concern, cut earnings per share by nine cents.    Security Pacific also said the suspension of interestpayments on the Brazilian and Ecuadorian debt reduced netincome by 8.1 mln dlrs, or seven cents a share.    Security Pacific completed its acquisition of Rainier onAugust 31. Security Pacific's results have been restated toreflect the "pooling-of-interests" acquisition.    "Our third-quarter performance was strong, clearlydemonstrating the stability and balance in our earningsstreams," said Richard Flamson, chairman and chief executiveofficer. "The addition of Rainier," he continued, "adds verysignificantly to the strength of our western banking network."    The inclusion of Orbanco and Arizona Bancwest earningsaffected comparison of most financial categories.    Fully-taxable equivalent net interest income was 602.4 mlndlrs, up from 538.6 mln. The suspension of interest payments onBrazilizan and Ecuadorian debt reduced net interest income by41.9 mln dlrs.    Non-interest income rose to 471.6 mln dlrs from 412.1 mln.    Third-quarter provision for credit losses was 89.6 mlndlrs, down 17.9 mln dlrs. As a percentage of average loans andlease financing, net credit losses were 0.68 pct, down from0.79 pct a year earlier.    Non-performing loans and leases were 2.038 billion dlrs atthe end of the quarter, or 3.96 pct of loans and leases, upfrom 1.377 billion a year ago.    Other non-interest expense, composed of staff and otherexpenses, was 757.6 mln dlrs, up from 616.2 mln. The riseincluded an increase in staff expenses to 379.7 mln dlrs from313.0 mln dlrs.    Excluding Orbanco and Arizona Bancwest, average loans grew11 pct. Real estate and international loan growth had thegreatest rises of 16 pct and 15 pct, respectively.    Shareholders equity was 3.486 billion dlrs at the end ofthe third quarter, up from 3.381 billion.    The primary capital ratio was 7.41 pct, based on period-endcapital and quarterly average assets, up from 7.01 pct a yearearlier. Reuter
NUI <NUI> MAY SPIN OFF NONUTILITY OPERATIONS NUI Corp said it is studyingthe feasibility of spinning off nonutility subsidiaries toshareholders.    The company said its propane disution, natural gas spotmarketing, data processing, oil and natural gas exploration andproduction, natural gas gathering and underground pipereplacement businesses had sales for the year ended September30 of about 74 mln dlrs, or about 25 pct of total companysales.  NUI's major subsidiary is utility Elizabethtown Gas. Reuter
U.S. NAVAL FORCES ATTACK IRANIAN OIL PLATFORM U.S. warships attacked and destroyedan Iranian oil platform on Monday in retaliation for Friday'sIranian attack damaging a U.S.-flagged ship, U.S. DefenseSecretary Caspar Weinberger said.    When asked how much was left of the oil platform,Weinberger said, "Nothing."    "There was no Iranian reaction," he said. "... We considerthis matter is now closed."    Weinberger said four U.S. destroyers attacked the platformabout 120 miles east of Bahrain in the central Gulf with fireat 0700 EDT, Weinberger said.    "We chose a platform used by the Iranians to interfere withand be a source of potential attack on convoys...," Weinbergersaid at a Pentagon briefing.     "We know it has been used indeed, to not only launch smallboat attacks on shipping but to fire on U.S. helicopters...    "It's removal will contribute significantly to the safety ofU.S. forces in the future," Weinberger said of the U.S. Navy'soperation to escort oil tankers through the Gulf.    "We do not seek further confrontation with Iran but we willbe prepared to meet any escalation of military actions by Iranwith stronger countermeasures," Weinberger said.    He said the 20 to 30 Iranian personnel on the oil platformwere given a 20-minute warning to abandon the platform.    "As far as we know they did abandon the site," he said.    Weinberger was asked why the United States had chosen toattack an oil platform rather than Iranian Silkworm missileplatforms blamed by Washington for Friday's attack. Reuter
AIRCRAFT ATTACK IRANIAN OIL RIGS IN SOUTHERN GULF Unidentified jets attacked three Iranianoil rigs in the southern Gulf early on Monday, setting at leastone of them ablaze, regional shipping sources said.    Earlier today in Washington, U.S. Television networks hadreported that American forces launched a retaliatory strikeagainst Iran late Sunday, attacking two Iranian offshore oildrilling platforms and setting them ablaze.    The shipping sources said Iran's Sassan, Rostam and Rakhshoffshore oilfields were attacked at 0700 local (0300 GMT) by awave of jet fighter bombers. Smoke was seen spiralling up fromthe Rostam field soon after.    At least one of the other two targets was also believed tobe ablaze, the sources said.    The Sassan and Rostam fields have been targets for Iraqiair strikes in the past, but Baghdad had not reported anysouthern Gulf missions prior to news of the latest attack.    Shipping and military sources in the region have said Iranused its southern Gulf rigs as bases to launch helicopter andlater speedboat attacks on neutral ships in the waterway.    U.S. Officials had been meeting on a response since Fridaywhen an attack on a Kuwaiti port severely damaged aU.S.-flagged ship. President Reagan said on Sunday he hadalready made a decision on the U.S. Response to Friday's Iranattack but would not say what the decision was. REUTER
AIRCRAFT ATTACK IRANIAN OIL RIGS IN SOUTHERN GULF Unidentified jets raided three Iranianoil rigs in the southern Gulf on Monday, setting at least oneof them ablaze, regional shipping sources said. Reuter
SHIPPING SOURCES SAY UNIDENTIFIED JETS RAID IRANIAN OIL PLATFORMS IN SOUTH Saudi Arabia is likely to remain the keysupplier of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) to Japan for at leastthe next five years, oil industry sources said.    Japan, while diversifying its supply sources of propane andbutane for stable supplies, will continue to bank on SaudiArabian LPG, the sources said.    They said Saudi's supply capabilities of LPG, an associateof crude oil, is guaranteed by its crude output capacity. "Saudiis a reliable supplier in that sense," said one trader.    Japan imports about 50 pct of its LPG from Saudi Arabia.    No single nation could substitute for Saudi Arabia as anLPG supply source to Japan, the sources said.    "Saudi Arabia has committed itself to Japanese LPG buyers,which has quelled fears that LPG supplies from the Mideast Gulfcould easily be disrupted in the wake of heightened hostilitiesin that area," said another trader.    Saudi Arabia cut LPG shipments to Japan and elsewhere by 20pct in September after a fire put a major gas plant atAl-Juaimah out of operation. October shipments were back tocontractual volumes as Saudi was able to boost exports fromother ports.    Attacks on Gulf shipping by Iran and Iraq centered on cruderather than products carriers, which has lulled fears of LPGsupply disruptions, traders said.    They said an Iranian blockade of the Strait of Hormuz wasunlikely because it would block Iran's oil shipments.    Industry sources said Japan's LPG imports will not greatlyrise or fall as its domestic demand growth is estimated at amoderate 2.1 pct a year from 1986 through 1991.    Japanese term buyers of Saudi LPG are expected to liftslightly lower volumes from January 1987, when imports fromIndonesia are slated to increase, the sources said.    The customers are unlikely to slash Saudi term purchases inlarge scale when Japan increases annual imports of IndonesianLPG to 1.95 mln tonnes in early 1989 from 319,000 tonnes in theyear ended March 1987, the sources said.    But when demand is sluggish in summer, they will phase downterm purchases of Saudi LPG and secure lower-priced cargoes onthe spot market, they said.    Japan imports some 12 mln tonnes of LPG a year, of which5.3 mln tonnes are supplied by Saudi Arabia, 3.3 mln under termcontracts and two mln through spot purchases. Some 80 pct ofJapan's LPG imports are from the Middle East.    Saudi Arabia's state owned oil company Petromin has madesome concessions on term prices to Japanese customers in therecent round of contract renewal talks, and it is likely theJapanese will accept the offer, the sources said.    The Japanese term customers, however, have so far beenunsuccessful in establishing a transparent price formula toreplace the existing unilateral monthly price notice.    Japanese buyers pay Saudi Arabia a price notified byPetromin each month. Most recently the FOB price was set at 87pct of the 17.52 dlrs per barrel government selling price (GSP)of Arabian Light.    Buyers reserve the right to phase down or out liftingsshould the monthly price be set at over 95 pct of ArabianLight's GSP.    Petromin has offered to lower this rate to 90 pct from the95 pct for contracts with Japanese customers from next January,the trade sources said.    Petromin also suggested that a seller's option of supplyingup to 20 pct more than the contractural volume be subject toseller-buyer agreement.    Under the present contract, Petromin can automatically cutsupplies up to 10 pct of the contractual volume.    "If you want to import LPG from Saudi Arabia on a profitablebasis, you have to set the price factor at 80 to 85 pct," saidan official at a major importer. "Freight costs are higher forcargoes coming from the Gulf than Southeast Asia due to alonger haul and war risk insurance payments."    Japanese customers will visit Saudi Arabia this month tofinalise their separate contract talks, now focusing oncontractual period and volume, which could be very similar tocurrent levels, the sources said. "When we talk business, wewould seek profitability and sometimes forget vulnerability ofhigh dependence on a single supplier," said one. REUTER
NBC NEWS SAYS U.S. HAS RETALIATED AGAINST IRAN U.S. television networks said onMonday that U.S. forces launched a retaliatory strike againstIran late Sunday, apparently attacking two Iranian offshore oildrilling platforms.    NBC News said it understood six Iranians had been pulledfrom the sea.    It said cautiously that U.S. forces attacked late Sundayand that two Iranian oil platforms east of Bahrain were ablazeas a result, but CBS News and other networks said flatly thatU.S. forces attacked the Iranian oil platforms.    U.S. officials had been meeting on a response since Fridaywhen an attack on a Kuwaiti port severely damaged aU.S.-flagged ship.    President Reagan said on Sunday he had already made adecision on the U.S. response to Friday's Iran attack but wouldnot say what the decision was.    Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said on Saturday theattack on a U.S.-flagged ship in Kuwaiti waters on Friday wasalmost certainly by an Iran Silkworm missile. Reuter
SOUTH YEMEN PLANS OIL EXPORT PIPELINE - MEES South Yemen is planning a major oilpipeline system to be completed in 18-months time to startexports at a initial rate of 100,000 barrels per day, (bpd) theMiddle East Economic Survey (MEES) said.    MEES said government approval for the export pipelinefollowed a visit to Aden by a high ranking delegation from theSoviet Union, which will help South Yemen construct the line    The engineering studies for the pipeline are nearlyfinished and construction is expected to start early next year,the industry newsletter said.    The pipeline will run about 170-200 kms (105-125 miles)from Shabwa oilfields to a coastal terminal at Bir 'Ali on theGulf of Aden, MEES said.     MEES said the Soviet firm Technoexport, which isdeveloping oilfileds for South Yemen, has substantiallyincreased its initial reserve estimates and recommended apipeline with an eventual 500,000 bpd capacity.    The discovery of commercial quaotities of oil was confirmedby Technoexport earlier this year in three structures in theShabwa region in the Northwestern part of the country, 200 kmseast of North Yemen's Alif oilfield. REUTER
IRAN, SOVIET UNION TO SWAP CRUDE, REFINED PRODUCTS The Soviet Union has agreed to supplyIran with refined oil products in exchange for 100,000 barrelsper day of crude, Iran's national news agency, IRNA, said.    IRNA, monitored in Nicosia, quoted Oil Minister GholamrezaAqazadeh as saying on his return to Tehran from Moscow that theagreement was part of a protocol on economic cooperation signedduring his visit. The amount of crude delivered to the SovietUnion might double to 200,000 bpd later, he said.    Aqazadeh said the two sides agreed to conduct feasibilitystudies for a pipeline to take Iranian crude from fields insouthern Iran to the Black Sea through the Soviet Union.    Iran is pursuing the pipeline project to protect part ofits oil exports from Iraqi air attacks in the Gulf.    Irna made no mention of natural gas exports to the SovietUnion, which Aqazadeh had said would be discussed before heleft for Moscow.    Iran lost most of its refining capacity early in the Gulfwar and now imports several hundred thousand bpd of refinedproducts.    Aqazadeh said Soviet refined products would be delivered atthe Caspian Sea ports of Anzali and Nowshahr, at Neka, near theCaspian, and at Jolfa in north-west Iran. REUTER
