DUTCH PLANNING AGENCY FORECASTS LOWER GROWTH Dutch economic growth is slowing as afirming guilder cuts competitiveness abroad and industriesreduce the pace of investment, the Dutch official planningagency CPB said.    The Centraal Planbureau, publishing its 1987 economicoutlook, said Dutch Net National Income (NNI) was expected togrow by one pct this year, down from two pct growth recorded in1986 and 2.5 pct in 1985 and 1984.    Dutch Gross National Product is expected to rise to 432.20billion guilders in 1987 in constant prices, a two pct increasefrom last year's 423.95 billion.    The CPB, forecasting an 8.5 pct increase in the value ofthe guilder on a trade-weighted basis compared with 10.0 pctlast year, said the dollar was expected to trade at an averageof 2.0 guilders in 1987 compared with 2.45 guilders in 1986.    "The higher guilder is causing a substantial fall in unitlabour costs abroad, when measured in guilder terms, whilethese are rising slightly in the Netherlands," the CPB said.    More of economic growth now depended on domesticconsumption, the CPB said, but noting that higher margins setby domestic producers and importers mitigated the effect onpurchasing power of lower import costs and deflation.    Consumer prices were set to fall by 1.5 pct this year, theCPB said. Inflation was zero last year.    Gross investment in industry was expected to grow by fivepct this year, a slowdown compared with 11.5 pct growth lastyear, the CPB said.    Exchange rate and oil price fluctuations will continue tocondition the Dutch economy in the future as it has in recentyears, the CPB said, noting a continued depressing impact ofthese factors on Dutch competitiveness.    In addition, it noted a slight rise in taxation and socialsecurity costs to employers.    The CPB, forecasting a rise in the budget deficit to 7.2pct of Net National Income in 1987 from 6.3 pct last year,urged the government to cut expenditure further to bring downthe deficit and reduce tax and social security payments infuture.    Dutch government revenue is being depressed further byfalling income from natural gas sales in 1987, the CPB said.    It said unemployment was expected to fall to 675,000 thisyear from 710,000 last year.    While the two pct GDP growth forecast set by the CPB iswithin its latest forecast, issued last month, of 1.5 to twopct growth, the figure is well above recent market estimates.    Dutch merchant bank Pierson, Heldring en Pierson said inits February economic outlook that GDP growth at constantprices was expected to be 1.1 pct this year and market analystshad expected the CPB's final forecast to be below its ownlatest estimate.    "It is too early to comment because I haven't seen the wholedocument yet, but it would seem we are more pessimistic in someof our estimates," a Pierson economist said.    The CPB forecast 2.5 pct export growth in volume terms in1987, after four pct growth last year. Excluding energyexports, the 1987 figure would be two pct, it said.    Imports were set to rise by 4.5 pct this year compared withfour pct in 1986 in volume terms, the CPB said.    The balance of payments would see a sharp decline in thesurplus, to six billion guilders in 1987 compared with 12.1billion last year, the CPB forecast. REUTER
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - DUTCH EXCHANGE RATE POLICY Recent slackness on Dutch capitalmarkets has led some bankers to question the Central Bank'spolicy of pegging the guilder firmly to the West German markand to ask for more flexiblility in exchange rate policy.    While agreeing with the Bank's commitment to defend theguilder strongly, some bankers want the Bank to make more useof the range within which the guilder and the mark canfluctuate against each other in the European Monetary System(EMS).    Roelof Nelissen, chairman of Amsterdam-Rotterdam Bank NV(Amro) said the Central Bank's policy was overcautious.    "I would like to suggest that the Bank use more freely therange given to the guilder in the EMS," Nelissen said at thepresentation of Amro's 1986 annual report last week.    Within the EMS, the mark is allowed to fluctuate againstthe guilder between 110.1675 and 115.235 guilders per 100.    The Central Bank maintains a stricter policy and tries tokeep the mark below the 113.00 guilders per 100. It regards astable exchange rate as its main target, using interest ratepolicies to influence the exchange rate.    The preference of exchange rate goals above interest rateaims goes almost undisputed in the Netherlands.    Critics say the Bank keeps the reins unnecessarily short.    Rabobank Nederland said in its latest economic bulletin: "Bymaintaining the 113.00 limit, the Central Bank raises theexpectation it will always intervene above that level. If itsuddenly needs more flexibility it will find it very hard toobtain."    Amro's Nelissen said relatively small changes in interestrates and exchange rates could cause substantial flows ofsecurities business and sharp fluctuations on the Dutch capitalmarket. Large interest rate changes were often needed to bringabout small changes in the guilder/mark exchange rate, headded.    Unlike Amro, Algemene Bank Nederland NV (ABN) says this isa price the Dutch have to pay. It fully agrees with the CentralBank's policy, director-general Julien Geertsema told Reuters,noting a 1983 decision not to revalue the guilder fully withthe mark in the EMS hurt confidence in the Dutch currency.    "It is a pity we need such a wide interest rate differencebetween West Germany to maintain the exchange rate," he added.    Interest rate differentials between West Germany and theNetherlands are the main factors that trigger capital flowsbetween the two countries, as the economic performance of thetwo does not differ much, economists said.    Data on 1986 capital flows between West Germany and theNetherlands have not yet been released, but in 1985 theyaccounted for only 10 pct of total trade flows between the twocountries, put at 110 billion guilders for 1986 by theDutch-German Chamber of Commerce earlier this month.    Economists say capital flows are more sensitive to interestand exchange rates.    West Germany is the Netherlands' largest single tradingpartner, taking 28 pct of Dutch exports and providing 26 pct ofimports in the last quarter of 1986, Central Bureau ofStatistics figures show.    At the moment, the rates for three month euromark depositstrade around 4.0 pct while the same deposits in guilders have arate of around 5-7/16 pct.    Amro bank argues that the Dutch real interest rate willeven rise further because of expectations of deflation here in1987, contrasting with slight inflation in West Germany.    In the Netherlands, the cost of living is expected todecrease by 1.5 pct at a GNP growth rate of two pct, the DutchCentral Planning Agency said in its 1987 forecast last month.German GNP is seen rising by two to 2.5 pct, but with inflationbetween zero and 1.0 pct, according to most German forecasts.    But despite this upward push on real Dutch rates, moneydealers do not expect the Central Bank to cut official ratesindependently without prior moves by the Bundesbank.    Following the West German interest rate cuts on January 22,the Dutch Central Bank did not lower its rates but set a 0.5pct lower tariff for special advances and abandoned its creditsurcharge. Most traders were surprised by this move as they hadexpected the Bank to follow suit unconditionally, they said.    The Bank said it lowered the rate with the largest impacton the money market as far as the exchange rate permitted.    While not entirely unsympathetic to critics of itspolicies, the Central Bank keeps its grip firm and the rangenarrow.    "The European Monetary System is not only a relationshipbetween the guilder and the mark. Many times widening of themargin between the two would implicate we have to buy or selllarge amounts of a third currency," Central Bank vice-directorJan-Hendrik Du Marchie Sarvaas said.    "If we allowed the guilder to become a little cheaper, themarkets would start to believe it was weak. We don't want that.We want to make clear that the guilder is just as strong as themark," he said. REUTER
DUTCH OFFICIAL RATE CUT SEEN STILL LIKELY A cut of about half a percentage pointin Dutch official interest rates is still in prospect, althougheconomists said the timing would depend on Bundesbank moves.    Speculation has been rife that the Dutch Central Bank,encouraged by a strong guilder/mark relationship and widepremiums for Dutch money and capital market rates over German,might lower rates without the Bundesbank moving first.    Last month, the Central Bank lowered its special advancesrate to 5.1 pct from 5.25 pct after the Bundesbank dropped itsrepurchase tender rate to 3.55 pct from 3.8 pct.    That rate has remained in force, just holding above thefive pct official secured loans rate which governs commercialbank borrowings.    Given a strong guilder, a further fall in the West Germanrepo rate would trigger a lower special advances tariff,forcing an official Dutch rate cut, analysts said.    In February, when the Bundesbank cut its discount rate tothree pct from 3.5 pct, the Central Bank only lowered moneymarket rates and removed a surcharge over the secured loansrate on lending under its three month credit quota.    Since then, however, both the Central Bank and FinanceMinistry have made it clear they favour lower official rates.    In April, Central Bank President Wim Duisenberg said hewould follow any Bundesbank cut, and last week the FinanceMinistry expressed satisfaction when it raised 2.25 billionguilders with a six pct coupon state loan priced at 100.10 pctfor an effective yield of 5.98 pct, the lowest since 1965.    Technically, analysts said, there has to be a differencebetween the secured loans rate which applies to lending underthe credit quota, and the tariff on special advances which addextra liquidity to the money market.    Bank economists and dealers said a West German move tofurther lower the rate on securities repurchase pacts wouldresult in the Central Bank easing the special advance rate,provided the guilder/mark relationship permitted.    The Central Bank aims to keep the guilder stable around itsparity value within the European Monetary System of 112.673guilders per 100 marks.    Today, foreign exchange buying pushed the mark up 10guilder cents to 112.705 guilders per 100 at the fix, a levelthat would not permit a change in the interest ratedifferential between West Germany and the Netherlands, dealerssaid.    An economist at ABN Bank said he expected West German andDutch interest rates to ease in the short term. However, hesaid new wage agreements in West Germany had raised inflationexpectations which would put upward pressure on interest ratesin the longer term.    In the Netherlands, the inflation outlook for 1987 is nil,or even negative, while the latest official economic forecastspoint to a falling rate of economic growth.    "It will depend on the outcome of collective wage agreementnegotiations here whether there could be cost push inflation,"the ABN economist said.    He said Dutch money supply growth, which ran at 3.4 pct inJanuary, could also contribute to some inflation.    At Amro Bank, a leading analyst said inflation could run totwo pct next year. The bank expects Dutch capital market rates,currently averaging around 6.1 pct, to stop easing in thesecond half of this year and stabilize around 5.6 pct.    Analysts said an official rate cut could trigger a buyingspree on the bond market which would bring yields down,probably only temporarily, while money rates could fall belowfive pct.    Currently, all periods are traded at 5.12 to 5.25 pct inthe money market. REUTER
