RECORD N.Z. FUTURES VOLUMES TRADED IN FEBRUARY The volume of contracts traded on theNew Zealand Futures Exchange (NZFE) reached a record 25,559contracts in February, the International Commodities ClearingHouse (ICCH) said.    The previous high was 22,583 contracts in December 1986.    The ICCH said the value of the contracts traded in Februarywas 2.90 billion N.Z. Dlrs.    The seven contracts currently traded on the NZFE are:five-year government bonds, the share price index, 90-day bankbills, 90-day prime commercial paper, the U.S. Dollar,crossbred wool, and wheat. Reuter
JAPANESE ECONOMIST SEES STABLE YEN/DOLLAR RATES The yen should stabilize at around152 to 153 to the U.S. Dollar for about a year, the Bank ofTokyo's economic adviser Koei Narusawa said.    "Both sides are showing clear interest to secure stabilityof the currencies. The major target of the Japanese governmentis to maintain the yen at above 150, at least for the rest ofthe year," he told reporters during a brief visit to Malaysia.    Narusawa said the U.S. Is unlikely to push the yen upfurther because this might spark off inflation and depress theU.S. Economy before the 1988 presidential election.    The yen is trading at around 153.70 to the dollar. REUTER
U.S. TREASURY DEPUTY ASST SECRETARY BERGER SAYS FURTHER DOLLAR DROP COULD CAUSE I West Germany and Tanzania have signed anagreement on rescheduling 145 mln marks worth of commercialcredits, the Finance Ministry said.    Tanzania will now have until April 1, 1997 to pay back thecredits, some of which had originally fallen due in 1979, aministry statement said.    Interest on the credits will be paid at market rates. REUTER
U.S. TREASURY AIDE WARNS ON INFLATION Thomas Berger, Deputy AssistantSecretary of the Treasury, said that a further drop in theexchange value of the dollar could cause prices to go up andtrigger inflation.    He told a meeting of the President's Export Council thatthe Japanese and the Germans have cut their profit margins toreflect recent drops in the dollar, so prices have remainedmuch the same.    But he added that if the dollar dropped further there couldbe inflation in the United States.    Berger also said that a further devalued dollar may causeeconomic depressions in some U.S. trading partners, and thatwould not be in America's interest because it would close thosemarkets to U.S. goods. Reuter
NEW CURRENCY PROBLEM SEEN AMONG U.S, EUROPE, JAPAN The highly visible drama involving theyen's sharp rise against the U.S. Dollar is obscuring the factthat the Japanese currency has hardly budged against majorEuropean currencies, thus creating a new set of exchange ratedistortions, Japanese and European research officials said.    The officials, looking beneath the rhetoric of statementsby the Group of Five (G-5) industrial nations, told Reuters thecurrency movements of the past two years are also creating afundamentally new world trade picture, which is throwing up newtrade tensions and imbalances.    Trade figures show that the new currency alignments arealready changing the Japan-U.S. Trade axis into a Japan-European Community (EC) axis, to the discomfort of Europe.    In many ways, not least in terms of rare internationalcooperation, the September, 1985 New York Plaza pact betweenthe U.S., Japan, West Germany, Britain and France to cut downthe value of the dollar was a historic one.    But it is the underlying peaks and troughs of the majorcurrency movements which lay bare the real picture, in whichthe Plaza pact appears as an event of prime importance, but notnecessarily central significance, the officials said.    The officials said that when the Plaza agreement tookplace, the dollar was already on its way down. The agreementsimply helped it on its way. Senior EC financial expert inTokyo Tomas de Hora has watched the movements closely.    "You have to look at the dollar's peak compared with now,and that was well before Plaza," he said.    On February 25, 1985, the dollar peaked against the yen at263.15 yen. On September 20, the Friday before Plaza, it was242. Since then, despite massive Bank of Japan intervention andperiodic market frights about further G-5 concerted action, thedollar trend has been down, down, down.    Yet the ECU is now around 173.4 yen. The historical crossrates for sterling and the mark tell much the same story. TheEuropean currencies are moving back up against the yen.    The close relationship between exchange rates and tradeflows makes it difficult to see which is driving which, butundoubtedly the trade equation between the big three ischanging. In 1986, Japanese imports and exports with the ECboth grew by around 50 pct in dollar terms, five pct in yen.This gave Japan a 16 billion dlr trade surplus.    Last January, Japanese exports to the EC totalled half ofof sales to the U.S, against about a third in recent years.    Trade with the U.S in 1986 rose 23 pct for exports and 12pct for imports in dollar terms, but fell 13 pct for exportsand 21 pct for imports in yen terms.    "The basic meaning for Europe is that Japanese firms have atremendous interest in exporting to Europe, where every unitsold maximises profits in yen terms, which is what is importantto them. Suddenly, instead of the U.S., It is Europe that islaying the golden egg," said de Hora.    The EC is worried. EC business also had a remarkable yearin Japanese sales, but this can be explained partly due to itsstart from a small base, compared with total Japan-U.S. Trade.    The Japanese think EC firms are now more competitive thanU.S. Firms, a factor which is aggravating the exchange rateimbalance, and which will cause problems.    "This currency alignment between Japan and the EC isreflecting the excellent performance of the EC countries. Buttherefore, Japanese goods may keep their price competitiveedge," said Azusa Hayashi, Director of the First InternationalEconomic Affairs Division of the Foreign Ministry. "If you wantmy objective view, I don't expect a drastic improvement in ourtrade imbalance. Last year, we asked for moderation in exports,and this year we may have to do so again," he said. REUTER
U.S. COMMERCE DEPT'S  ORTNER SAYS DOLLAR FAIRLY PRICED AGAINST EUROPEAN CU Shr 77 cts vs 76 cts    Net 13,843,000 vs 14,478,000    Sales 374.6 mln vs 368.3 mln    Avg shrs 18,003,000 vs 19,025,000    Year    Shr 2.16 dlrs vs 2.65 dlrs    Net 39,503,000 vs 51,573,000    Revs 1.41 billion vs 1.41 billion    Avg shrs 18,269,000 vs 19,497,000    NOTE: 1986 period ended February One    Company changed fiscal yearend to January 31 from October31. 1986 results were restated to reflect the change. Reuter
U.S. COMMERCE'S ORTNER SAYS YEN UNDERVALUED Commerce Dept. undersecretary ofeconomic affairs Robert Ortner said that he believed the dollarat  current levels was fairly priced against most Europeancurrencies.    In a wide ranging address sponsored by the Export-ImportBank, Ortner, the bank's senior economist also said he believedthat the yen was undervalued and could go up by 10 or 15 pct.    "I do not regard the dollar as undervalued at this pointagainst the yen," he said.    On the other hand, Ortner said that he thought that "the yenis still a little bit undervalued," and "could go up another 10or 15 pct."    In addition, Ortner, who said he was speaking personally,said he thought that the dollar against most Europeancurrencies was "fairly priced."    Ortner said his analysis of the various exchange ratevalues was based on such economic particulars as wage ratedifferentiations.    Ortner said there had been little impact on U.S. tradedeficit by the decline of the dollar because at the time of thePlaza Accord, the dollar was extremely overvalued and that thefirst 15 pct decline had little impact.    He said there were indications now that the trade deficitwas beginning to level off.    Turning to Brazil and Mexico, Ortner made it clear that itwould be almost impossible for those countries to earn enoughforeign exchange to pay the service on their debts.  He saidthe best way to deal with this was to use the policies outlinedin Treasury Secretary James Baker's debt initiative. Reuter
FED'S JOHNSON SAYS DOLLAR IS VERY CLOSE TO APPROPRIATE EXCHANGE RAT Meridian Diagnostics Inc said it hasdeveloped a rapid diagnostic test for endemic or murine typhusinfections caused by Rickettsii typhi and transmitted by fleabites.    It said the product will be sold to hospitals, physicians,commerical laboratories and veterinarians by <IntegratedDiagnostics Inc>. Reuter
NEW CURRENCY PROBLEM SEEN AMONG U.S, EUROPE, JAPAN The highly visible drama involving theyen's sharp rise against the U.S. Dollar is obscuring the factthat the Japanese currency has hardly budged against majorEuropean currencies, thus creating a new set of exchange ratedistortions, Japanese and European research officials said.    The officials, looking beneath the rhetoric of statementsby the Group of Five (G-5) industrial nations, told Reuters thecurrency movements of the past two years are also creating afundamentally new world trade picture, which is throwing up newtrade tensions and imbalances.    Trade figures show that the new currency alignments arealready changing the Japan-U.S. Trade axis into a Japan-European Community (EC) axis, to the discomfort of Europe.    In many ways, not least in terms of rare internationalcooperation, the September, 1985 New York Plaza pact betweenthe U.S., Japan, West Germany, Britain and France to cut downthe value of the dollar was a historic one.    But it is the underlying peaks and troughs of the majorcurrency movements which lay bare the real picture, in whichthe Plaza pact appears as an event of prime importance, but notnecessarily central significance, the officials said.    The officials said that when the Plaza agreement tookplace, the dollar was already on its way down. The agreementsimply helped it on its way. Senior EC financial expert inTokyo Tomas de Hora has watched the movements closely.    "You have to look at the dollar's peak compared with now,and that was well before Plaza," he said.    On February 25, 1985, the dollar peaked against the yen at263.15 yen. On September 20, the Friday before Plaza, it was242. Since then, despite massive Bank of Japan intervention andperiodic market frights about further G-5 concerted action, thedollar trend has been down, down, down.    Yet the ECU is now around 173.4 yen. The historical crossrates for sterling and the mark tell much the same story. TheEuropean currencies are moving back up against the yen.    The close relationship between exchange rates and tradeflows makes it difficult to see which is driving which, butundoubtedly the trade equation between the big three ischanging. In 1986, Japanese imports and exports with the ECboth grew by around 50 pct in dollar terms, five pct in yen.This gave Japan a 16 billion dlr trade surplus.    Last January, Japanese exports to the EC totalled half ofof sales to the U.S, against about a third in recent years.    Trade with the U.S in 1986 rose 23 pct for exports and 12pct for imports in dollar terms, but fell 13 pct for exportsand 21 pct for imports in yen terms.    "The basic meaning for Europe is that Japanese firms have atremendous interest in exporting to Europe, where every unitsold maximises profits in yen terms, which is what is importantto them. Suddenly, instead of the U.S., It is Europe that islaying the golden egg," said de Hora.    The EC is worried. EC business also had a remarkable yearin Japanese sales, but this can be explained partly due to itsstart from a small base, compared with total Japan-U.S. Trade.    The Japanese think EC firms are now more competitive thanU.S. Firms, a factor which is aggravating the exchange rateimbalance, and which will cause problems.    "This currency alignment between Japan and the EC isreflecting the excellent performance of the EC countries. Buttherefore, Japanese goods may keep their price competitiveedge," said Azusa Hayashi, Director of the First InternationalEconomic Affairs Division of the Foreign Ministry. "If you wantmy objective view, I don't expect a drastic improvement in ourtrade imbalance. Last year, we asked for moderation in exports,and this year we may have to do so again," he said. REUTER...
TREASURY SAYS ONLY REAGAN, BAKER SPEAK ON DLR The U.S. Treasury repeated a WhiteHouse statement that only President Reagan and TreasurySecretary James Baker are authorized to speak on the dollar.    A Department spokesman was commenting on remarks byCommerce Department Under-Secretary Robert Ortner that the yenwas undervalued 10 or 15 pct against the dollar but Europeancurrencies were fairly priced against the U.S. currency.    "As Larry Speakes said on January 14 this year, only twopeople in this administration are authorized to speak on thedollar and that is the president and the secretary of thetreasury," the spokesman told Reuters. reuter
BAKER DENIES CHANGE IN U.S. POLICY ON DOLLAR Treasury Secretary James Baker saidthere has been no change in U.S. policy on the value of thedollar.    Baker, when asked if the policy was changed in view ofcomments yesterday by a senior Commerce Department official whosaid he thought the Japanese yen was undervalued against thedollar by 10 to 15 pct, replied, "No."    Yesterday Robert Ortner, Undersecretary of Commerce forEconomic Affairs, said he thought the yen was undervalued butsaid that was his personal view.    This remark caused the dollar to drop as it appeared toconflict with a recent agreement in Paris by the United Statesand five other industrial nations that currency rates were atabout the right level to reflect underlying economicconditions.    Baker, who spoke earlier to the National NewspaperAssociation, declined to elaborate on his statement about U.S.policy. Reuter
OECD TRADE, GROWTH SEEN SLOWING IN 1987 The 24 nations of the Organisation forEconomic Cooperation and Development (OECD), hampered bysluggish industrial output and trade, face slower economicgrowth, and their joint balance of payments will swing intodeficit in 1987, the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU ) said.    The EIU said in its World Trade Forecast it revised OECDeconomic growth downwards to 2.5 pct this year, compared with a2.8 pct growth forecast in December.    It said the new areas of weakness are West Germany and thesmaller European countries it influences, and Japan, hardesthit by currency appreciation this year.    The independent research organisation cut its 1987 growthrate forecasts for West Germany to 2.2 pct from 3.2 pct inDecember and to 2.3 pct from three pct for Japan.    It said it expected the OECD to post a current accountdeficit of some 13 billion dlrs in both 1987 and 1988, due inlarge part to a 1.50 dlrs a barrel rise in 1987 oil prices.    It said the U.S. Current account deficit looked likely tofall even more slowly than forecast, to 125 billion dlrs in1987 and 115 billion in 1988 from 130 billion in 1986.    It said it expected West Germany to post a 31 billion dlrpayments surplus and Japan a 76 billion dlr surplus this year.    The EIU said it saw oil prices dropping to around 16.50dlrs a barrel by end-1987 and 15.50 dlrs in 1988 from about 18dlrs last year, as adherence to OPEC output policy becomesincreasingly ragged.    It said the dollar is poised to resume its decline inforeign exchange markets, and will lose a further 13 pct on itstrade-weighted index this year and five pct in 1988 after lastyear's 18.4 pct drop. The average mark/dollar rate is put at1.80 marks this year and 1.70 in 1988 while the yen/dollar rateis expected to break through the 150 yen barrier with anaverage value of 150 yen in 1987 and 146 yen in 1988, it said.    "This is not a crash scenario but the dollar's steeperangle of descent increases the risk of ending with a fireballrather than a three-point landing," the EIU said.    "Talking will not stop the dollar's slide for long and theFebruary meeting (of finance ministers of the Group of Five andCanada) produced scant promise of either a decisive shift tomore expansive policies in West Germany and Japan, or a tighterU.S. Fsical policy," it said.    It said the key to the dollar's fortunes was thewillingness of Japanese institutions to buy U.S. Governmentassets despite prospects of sustaining a currency loss.    "Thus far they have been willing," the EIC said, addingthat if Japan was deterred from buying U.S. bonds the dollarwould collapse.    To contain such a currency crisis, dollar interest rateswould have to soar, bringing recession and a Third World debtcrisis, it said.    On trade, the EIU said prospects for 1987 look"increasingly sick."    Import growth, forecast in December at 4.5 pct, is now seenslowing down to around 3.8 pct in 1987 with a recovery only to4.2 pct in 1988, it said.    The weakness of the West German economy is the biggestsingle factor, with import growth there expected to feature asluggish 3.5 pct growth in 1987 against the 6.5 pct forecast inDecember, the EIU said.    On the export side, it said it saw weak demand in WestGermany affecting export prospects elsewhere in Europe, whileJapan's exports in 1987 would remain flat and sales by U.S.Exporters would respond only marginally to a lower, morecompetitively-priced dollar.    It said in most of Europe and in Japan, raw materials andoil will cost less in domestic currency in 1987 than in 1986. Reuter
POEHL SAYS FURTHER RATE CUT POSSIBLE - SOURCES Bundesbank president Karl Otto Poehltold a closed investment symposium that West Germany could cutleading interest rates again if the United States makes asimilar move, banking sources said.    The sources were reporting Poehl's remarks at a symposiumin Duesseldorf last week organised by Deutsche Bank Ag. Pressrepresentatives were not invited.    The sources, speaking separately, said Poehl told about 200bankers in reply to questions that a cut in U.S. Interest rateswould give room for a matching measure in Germany.    "It was a definite hint at lower German interest rates," saidone banker who attended the symposium.    A Bundesbank spokesman said the central bank would have nocomment on the reported remarks, made at the private meeting.    But, according to a second source, who also declined to beidentified, Poehl's comments were seen by bankers present as adirect pointer to further moves by the central bank to defendGerman industry from an additional revaluation of the mark.    "He said if the Americans drop their interest rates then theBundesbank would also drop them. He said that quite clearly,"the second source said.    In reply to questions, Poehl also said the half-point cutin the discount and Lombard rates on January 22 came after theU.S. Had signalled it would be prepared to attend a meeting todiscuss the level of the dollar on condition Germany made sucha move in advance, the sources said.    Asked if American authorities could have been persuaded, bycuts in German rates, to come to the bargaining table as earlyas last September, one of the sources quoted Poehl as saying,"No, they wouldn't have been. We checked that."    The Paris meeting of the Group of Six industrial nationstook place exactly one month after the German cut in rates.    Poehl emphasised in his comments the very close talksbetween central banks before and after the G-6 meeting, sayingthat financial markets had not fully realised the significanceof the Paris session and the U.S. Agreement to stem furtherfalls in the value of the dollar, the sources said.    For the first time all participants at the summit agreedthat a further fall in the dollar would be harmful for allworld economies, including the U.S., Poehl had said.    The sources said the tone of Poehl's comments boostedgrowing sentiment that the dollar would be stabilised aroundcurrent levels by international central bank cooperation.    One source said Poehl's remarks also underlined the factthat the Bundesbank was now more prepared to be accommodativein monetary policy in order to prevent a further slowdown inWest Germany's economic growth.    Poehl and other Bundesbank officials have in the paststressed that the German central bank had no directresponsibility for growth and was solely concerned withcombatting inflation.    This led, for instance, to the introduction of a tightermonetary stance from the beginning of December until thehalf-point cut in rates in late January.    The sources quoted Poehl as saying that the currentovershooting of the German monetary target would not directlyrespark inflation. The Bundesbank was not obliged to reactimmediately whenever such overshooting occurs.    Latest data for central bank money stock, the Bundesbank'smain measure of money supply, showed the measure was growing at7-1/2 pct in January, outside its three to six pct 1987 target.    Share prices rose in very active trading today, withdealers reporting that Poehl's remarks, coupled with a bullishoutlook on stock prices from Deutsche at the same symposium,brought in strong bargain hunting at current low levels. REUTER
OECD TRADE, GROWTH SEEN SLOWING IN 1987 The 24 nations of the Organisation forEconomic Cooperation and Development (OECD), hampered bysluggish industrial output and trade, face slower economicgrowth, and their joint balance of payments will swing intodeficit in 1987, the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU ) said.    The EIU said in its World Trade Forecast it revised OECDeconomic growth downwards to 2.5 pct this year, compared with a2.8 pct growth forecast in December.    It said the new areas of weakness are West Germany and thesmaller European countries it influences, and Japan, hardesthit by currency appreciation this year.    The independent research organisation cut its 1987 growthrate forecasts for West Germany to 2.2 pct from 3.2 pct inDecember and to 2.3 pct from three pct for Japan.    It said it expected the OECD to post a current accountdeficit of some 13 billion dlrs in both 1987 and 1988, due inlarge part to a 1.50 dlrs a barrel rise in 1987 oil prices.    It said the U.S. Current account deficit looked likely tofall even more slowly than forecast, to 125 billion dlrs in1987 and 115 billion in 1988 from 130 billion in 1986.    It said it expected West Germany to post a 31 billion dlrpayments surplus and Japan a 76 billion dlr surplus this year.    The EIU said it saw oil prices dropping to around 16.50dlrs a barrel by end-1987 and 15.50 dlrs in 1988 from about 18dlrs last year, as adherence to OPEC output policy becomesincreasingly ragged.    It said the dollar is poised to resume its decline inforeign exchange markets, and will lose a further 13 pct on itstrade-weighted index this year and five pct in 1988 after lastyear's 18.4 pct drop.    The average mark/dollar rate is put at 1.80 marks this yearand 1.70 in 1988 while the yen/dollar rate is expected to breakthrough the 150 yen barrier with an average value of 150 yen in1987 and 146 yen in 1988, it said.    "This is not a crash scenario but the dollar's steeper angleof descent increases the risk of ending with a fireball ratherthan a three-point landing," the EIU said.    "Talking will not stop the dollar's slide for long and theFebruary meeting (of finance ministers of the Group of Five andCanada) produced scant promise of either a decisive shift tomore expansive policies in West Germany and Japan, or a tighterU.S. Fiscal policy," it said.    It said the key to the dollar's fortunes was thewillingness of Japanese institutions to buy U.S. Governmentassets despite prospects of sustaining a currency loss.    "Thus far they have been willing," the EIC said, adding thatif Japan was deterred from buying U.S. Bonds the dollar wouldcollapse.    To contain such a currency crisis, dollar interest rateswould have to soar, bringing recession and a Third World debtcrisis, it said.    On trade, the EIU said prospects for 1987 look "increasinglysick."    Import growth, forecast in December at 4.5 pct, is now seenslowing down to around 3.8 pct in 1987 with a recovery only to4.2 pct in 1988, it said.    The weakness of the West German economy is the biggestsingle factor, with import growth there expected to feature asluggish 3.5 pct growth in 1987 against the 6.5 pct forecast inDecember, the EIU said.    On the export side, it said it saw weak demand in WestGermany affecting export prospects elsewhere in Europe, whileJapan's exports in 1987 would remain flat and sales by U.S.Exporters would respond only marginally to a lower, morecompetitively-priced dollar.    It said in most of Europe and in Japan, raw materials andoil will cost less in domestic currency in 1987 than in 1986.    However, rates of inflation will edge up in 1988 to overthe current OECD average of three pct. Non-oil commodity priceswill show a modest dollar price increase in 1988 for the firsttime since 1984, the EIU said.    After a rise of 18 pct in 1986, the dollar price ofinternationally traded manufactures will go up by 8.5 pct in1987 and by five pct in 1988, it said.    It said OECD industrial production would rise by only 1.6pct in 1987 after a weak 1.5 pct increase in 1986. Reuter
TURKISH CENTRAL BANK SETS LIRA/DOLLAR, DM RATES The Turkish Central Bank set aLira/Dollar rate for March 10 of 773.05/776.92 to the Dollar,down from the previous 769.60/773.45.    The Bank also set a Lira/Mark rate of 417.20/419.29 to theMark, up from the previous 419.15/421.25.
USX <X> CHAIRMAN CALLS FOR LOWER DOLLAR USX Corp chairman David Roderick calledfor a lower value for the U.S. dollar against other currenciesto help speed a correction in the U.S. trade deficit, whichlast year reached 170 billion dlrs.    In remarks prepared for a speech before the Economic Clubof Detroit, Roderick said, "There should be total resolve thatthe dollar versus other major currencies, as well as thecurrencies of other nations having a substantial trade surpluswith us, must continue to decline so that the correction in ourtrade deficit starts on the road to recovery."    Roderick said the U.S. should be understanding of the"economic pain" our trading partners experience as a result ofa falling dollar.    But, he added, "As painful as the correction may be to ourtrading partners, it is less painful than leaving the problemuncorrected because that would lead us into an inevitable,lengthy and steep world recession."    Roderick said between February 1985 and December 1986 thedollar fell by more than 40 pct in real terms against majorindustrial currencies and by 30 to 35 pct against a broadergroup of currencies of nearly all developing nations.    At the end of 1986, he said, the value of foreign assets inthe U.S. exceeded the value of U.S. assets abroad by 240billion dlrs, compared to five years ago when the U.S. had asurplus in assets of 141 billion. A company spokesman said thedata were provided by economic consultants to USX.    The primary reason for the trade imbalance was the 70 pctrise of the dollar between 1980 and 1985, although otherfactors were involved, Roderick said. But it is wrong, he said,"to attribute the massive trade deficit to a fundmentaldeterioration of U.S. productivity or of American productquality."    These areas need to be improved but they are not the rootcause of the trade gap problem, Roderick said. He urgedAmerican manufacturers to become more competitive so they cancompete in global markets.    In the speech, the USX chairman also called for changes insecurities laws to curb what he called abuses by corporateraiders and speculators.    Among his proposals, which he presented to the SenateBanking Committee in testimony last week, were a requirementthat raiders give 24-hour notice for every one pct of stockthey acquire in a company.    Roderick proposed that tender offers must be made for allcash to all stockholders on equal terms and that raiders berequired to have financing in place before a tender is made.    Further, raiders should be required to make an all-cashtender offer once they acquire 10 pct of a target company'sstock, he said. And payment of greenmail, or a preferentialprice by a target company to buy back a raider's stake, shouldbe prohibited under the revised laws.    Roderick said changes were necessary to curb abuses butthat he did not want laws that would hurt the financial marketsor discourage "fair price to all" takeovers. Reuter
U.S. PAYMENTS GAP TO PERSIST, EX-FED CHIEF SAYS The dollar will decline over the nexttwo to three years, but this is unlikely to result in acomplete reduction of the U.S. current account deficit, saidAnthony Solomon, chairman of S.G. Warburg (USA) Inc and formerpresident of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.    In a presentation to the Japan Society, Solomon saidwithout elaboration that he expects a "significant decline inthe dollar," within the next three years.    "The dollar will fall more, but the current account deficitwill stop being reduced when it reaches its structural core,"he said.    Solomon described the structural core as about one-half ofthe current 150 billion dlr annual deficit. He cited severalfactors which will prevent an elimination of the deficit.    For one thing, it is unlikely that there will be any newinvestment in those manufacturing industries that shrank whenthe dollar was at uncompetitive levels, he said.    In addition, he said that the U.S. has an increasedpropensity to import in order to satisify consumer tastes.    Solomon forecast inflation at 4.5 pct by year-end, but saidit could be kept below five pct in the medium-term if oilprices are stable and commodity values remain low. Reuter
U.S. INTERVENED TO BUY 50 MLN DLRS AGAINST YEN ON JANUARY 28,  CTS Corp said it increased its1986 loss from continuing operations to 26.6 mln dlrs from thepreviously announced 23.8 mln dlrs loss.    The 1986 figure was increased to include expenses involvedwith its settlement of a dispute with Dynamics Corp of America<DYA>.    The settlement involved a takeover bid for CTS by DynamicsCorp, which had offered to buy the shares of CTS that it didnot already own.    CTS made a profit of 7.9 mln dlrs from continuingoperations in 1985.    CTS said it charged an additional 2.8 mln dlrs in specialexpenses to its 1986 operations as a result of the DynamicsCorp settlement.    The additional expenses include the obligation to reimburseDynamics Corp, subject to approval of CTS shareholders, a totalof 2.1 mln dlrs for Dynamics Corp's expenses and other costsrelating to CTS. Reuter
U.S. INTERVENED TO AID DLR IN JANUARY, FED SAYS U.S. authorities intervened in theforeign exchange market to support the dollar on one occasionduring the period between the start of November 1986 and theend of January, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said in areport.    The Fed's quarterly review of foreign exchange operationssaid that the U.S. bought 50 mln dlrs through the sale of yenon January 28. This operation was coordinated with the Japanesemonetary authorities and was funded equally by the Fed and theU.S. Treasury.    The Fed's intervention was on the morning after presidentReagan's State of the Union message and was "in a mannerconsistent with the joint statement" made by U.S. Treasurysecretary James Baker and Japanese finance minister KiichiMiyazawa after their January 21 consultations.    At that meeting, the two reaffirmed their willingness tocooperate on exchange rate issues.    The Fed's report did not say at what level the interventionoccurred. But on January 28, the dollar closed at 151.50/60 yenafter dipping as low as 150.40 yen earlier in the session. Ithad closed at 151.05/15 yen the previous day.    The dollar had plumbed a post-World War II low of 149.98yen on January 19 and reached a seven-year low of 1.7675 markson January 28. It ended that day at 1.7820/30 marks.    The Fed noted that, after trading steadily throughoutNovember and the first half of December, the dollar movedsharply lower until the end of January.    It closed the three-month review period down more than 11pct against the mark and most other Continental currencies andseven pct lower against the yen and sterling. It had fallenfour pct against the Canadian dollar.    During the final days of January, pressure on the dollarsubsided. Reports of the U.S.-Japanese intervention operationand talk of an upcoming meeting of the major industrialcountries encouraged expectations for broader cooperation onexchange rate and economic policy matters, the Fed said.    Moreover, doubts had developed about the course of U.S.interest rates. The dollar's swift fall had raised questionsabout whether the Fed would let short-term rates ease.    Thus the dollar firmed to close the period at 1.8320 marksand 153.70 yen. According to the Fed's trade-weighted index, ithad declined nine pct since the beginning of the period.    The dollar had risen as high as 2.08 marks and 165 yen inearly November.    The Fed last intervened in the foreign exchange market onNovember 7, 1985 when it bought a total of 102.2 mln dlrs worthof marks and yen.    The Fed's action followed the September 1985 Plazaagreement between the five major industrial nations under whichthey agreed to promote an orderly decline of the dollar. Reuter
MIYAZAWA SAYS EXCHANGE RATES WILL STAY STABLE Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told apress conference he thinks exchange rates will remain stabledue to the currency accord reached in Paris last month by sixmajor industrialised nations but he did not say for how long.    The dollar has hovered around 153 yen since the six agreedto cooperate to bring about currency stability.    Asked to comment on remarks by some U.S. Officials callingfor a further decline of the dollar, Miyazawa said only theU.S. President and the U.S. Treasury Secretary can makeofficial statements about exchange rates. REUTER
Miyazawa says current dollar/yen rate not necessarily sati Japan agreed in talks with the U.S. Toamend its laws to allow more companies to engage ininternational value-added network telecommunications services,a Post and Telecommunications Ministry official said.    Such services make communications between otherwiseincompatible computers possible over telecommunications lines.    The official said firms registering as "Special Type TwoTelecommunications Firms," which are those leasing lines fromcommon carriers, will be permitted to re-lease the lines tousers and provide international services.    Steps will also be taken to assure fairness in negotiationsbetween common carriers and firms seeking to lease lines, theofficial said.    Since December, 10 companies have registered as SpecialType Two firms, including two which have American Telephone andTelegraph Co <T> or McDonnell Douglas Corp <MD> as majorshareholders, the official said.    Currently only <Kokusai Denshin Denwa Co Ltd> and <NipponTelegraph and Telephone Corp> are allowed to operateinternational telecommunications services. REUTER
YEUTTER SAYS DLR LEVEL BASED ON ECONOMIC POLICY U.S. Trade Representative ClaytonYeutter said that whether the exchange rate of the dollar wouldfall or rise in the coming decade would depend on nations'financial, monetary and tax policies.    But, he said, in a speech and remarks to the HeritageFoundation, that in the end "the marketplace will ultimatelyrule the day."    Asked about the future of the dollar, he said that whetheror not it would rise or fall depended on economic policies andcoooperation among trading nations.    Yeutter said "if nations do the right kinds of things infinancial, monetary and tax policies, then a lesser burden ofadjustment is placed on exchange rates, and one could envisiona situation of the major trading nations moving back far closerto what most of us would consider equilibrium and exchangerates becoming relatively stable."    But he said, on the other hand, that if nations did notexhibit greater self discipline and international cooperation,"It is simply inevitable that the exchange rates will make thatadjustment." Reuter
LEADING INDUSTRIAL NATIONS TO MEET IN APRIL Leading industrial nations will meetagain next month to review their accord on currency stability,but U.S. Officials said financial markets are convinced for nowthe countries will live up to commitments to speed up economicgrowth.    The narrow currency movements of recent weeks stronglysuggests the six leading industrial countries have tamed thenormally unruly financial markets and next month's talks seemlikely to build on that stability.    A Reagan administration official said the Paris agreementlast month was the main reason markets were calm.    But he said in an interview that financial markets alsounderstood, "That all six countries concluded that the measuresto be taken over a period of time in the future should fosterstability of exchange rates around current levels. That is infact what has happened since Paris."    Monetary analysts said stability has been helped in part bythe decision of industrial nations to bury the hatchet andcease to quarrel over short-term policy objectives.    Instead they have focused on medium-term policy goals, butleft room to adjust their agreements with periodic meetings.    The official refused to comment, however, on whether theagreement included a secret pact to consider furthercoordinated interest rate cuts -- a measure industrial nationshave taken jointly several times in the past year.    On February 22, the United States, Japan, West Germany,France, Britain and Canada agreed that major currencies werewithin ranges broadly reflecting underlying economicconditions, given commitments by Washington to cut its budgetdeficit and by Toyko and Bonn to boost economic growth.    The shake-up would strengthen the U.S. Position in futureinternational talks.    "I think these changes will strengthen the President's handpolitically and the stronger he is politically the better offwe are with the Congress and the better off we are ininternational fora," said the official, an Administrationeconomic policymaker. "So it would be beneficial to thecontinued conduct of our initiatives."    But the official also said the Administration would resistcalls for a tax increase to cut the budget deficit -- a targetEuropeans say is crucial to help curb economic instability.    Currency analysts believe the Paris agreement set secret short-term target ranges for their currencies with a specificagreement to defend those bands with intervention.    According to market sources, the ranges agreed were 1.60 to1.90 marks to the dollar, and 140 to 155 yen to the dollar.    There is no official confirmation that specific bands  wereset, although the agreement used the term "ranges", for the firsttime in an international economic agreement.    The Paris accord stated the six would cooperate closely tofoster currency stability around current levels.    Last week, dealers said the Federal Reserve intervened tostop the dollar rising against the mark, which had breached1.86 to the dollar. British authorities are also understood tohave intervened to curb sterling's strength.    International monetary sources say finance ministers andcentral bankers, who will review market performance and theirown economic prospects, will reassemble again in Washingtonjust before the April 9 policymaking meeting of theInternational Monetary Fund.    The sources said Italy, which refused to join the Parispact, was invited back by Treasury Secretary James Baker.    Since Paris, there are signs West German growth is slowing,while U.S. Officials said they were giving Japan until April toshow that an economic stimulus package was in the offing.    Signs of concern about German prospects emerged recentlywhen Bundesbank (central bank) president Karl Otto Poehl toldbankers he would consider cutting West German interest rates ifthe Fed was ready to follow suit.    A Reagan Administration official said this would show therehad been some change in approach on the part of the centralbank in Germany.    But he declined to comment on the prospects for action bythe Fed and the Bundesbank.    "If there is such a provision it is private and if I talkedabout it, it would no longer be private," said the official, whoasked not to be identified.    Public comments by Fed officials suggest the central bankis keeping credit conditions broadly unchanged, but if themajor economies continue to show sluggish growth and the U.S.Trade deficit remains stubbornly high, further coordinatedaction could be on the April agenda. REUTER
DOLLAR SEEN FALLING UNLESS JAPAN SPURS ECONOMY Underlying dollar sentiment is bearish,and operators may push the currency to a new low unless Japantakes steps to stimulate its economy as pledged in the Parisaccord, foreign exchange analysts polled by Reuters said here.    "The dollar is expected to try its psychological barrier of150.00 yen and to fall even below that level," a senior dealerat one leading bank said.    The dollar has eased this week, but remains stable ataround 151.50 yen. Six major industrial countries agreed at ameeting in Paris in February to foster currency stability.    Some dealers said the dollar may decline in the long term,but a drastic fall is unlikely because of U.S. Fears of renewedinflation and fears of reduced Japanese purchases of U.S.Treasury securities, needed to finance the U.S. Deficit.    Dealers generally doubted whether any economic packageJapan could adopt soon would be effective enough to reduce itstrade surplus significantly, and said such measures wouldprobably invite further U.S. Steps to weaken the dollar.    Under the Paris accord, Tokyo promised a package ofmeasures after the fiscal 1987 budget was passed to boostdomestic demand, increase imports and cut its trade surplus.    But debate on the budget has been delayed by an oppositionboycott of Parliamentary business over the proposed impositionof a five pct sales tax, and the government has only a slimchance of producing a meaningful economic package in the nearfuture, the dealers said.    If no such steps are taken, protectionist sentiment in theU.S. Congress will grow, putting greater downward pressure onthe dollar, they said.    The factors affecting the U.S. Currency have not changedsince before the Paris accord, they added.    "Underlying sentiment for the dollar remains bearish due toa still-sluggish U.S. Economic outlook, the international debtcrisis triggered by Brazil's unilateral suspension of interestpayments on its foreign debts and the reduced clout of theReagan administration as a result of the Iran/Contra armsscandal," said a senior dealer at a leading trust bank.    "There is a possibility that the dollar may decline toaround 140.00 yen by the end of this year," said Chemical BankTokyo branch vice president Yukuo Takahashi.    But operators find it hard to push the dollar either wayfor fear of possible concerted central bank intervention.    Dealers said there were widespread rumours that the U.S.Federal Reserve telephoned some banks in New York to ask forquotes last Wednesday, and even intervened to sell the dollarwhen it rose to 1.87 marks.    The Bank of England also apparently sold sterling in Londonwhen it neared 1.60 dlrs on Wednesday, they said.    But other dealers said they doubted the efficacy of centralbank intervention, saying it may stimulate the dollar's declinebecause many dealers are likely to await such dollar buyingintervention as a chance to sell dollars.    However, First National Bank of Chicago Tokyo Branchassistant manager Hiroshi Mochizuki said "The dollar will notshow drastic movement at least to the end of March."    Other dealers said the U.S. Seems unwilling to see anystrong dollar swing until Japanese companies close their booksfor the fiscal year ending on March 31, because a weak dollarwould give Japanese institutional investors paper losses ontheir foreign holdings, which could make them lose interest inpurchases of U.S. Treasury securities.    U.S. Monetary officials may refrain from making anycomments this month to avoid influencing rates, they said. REUTER
DOLLAR VALUE APPROPRIATE, BUNDESBANK OFFICIAL SAYS The dollar is near appropriate levelsagainst European currencies and the yen, and a further fallcould damage confidence in the currency while endangering worldeconomic growth, a top Bundesbank official said.    Board member Leonhard Gleske also told a Forex Associationconference current exchange rates of major currencies "can beviewed as equilibrium levels in a medium-term perspective."    He said the recent Paris agreement on currencystabilisation and policy coordination between the Group of Fiveand Canada may herald "an era of greater exchange ratestability."    The Paris agreement was not, however, an attempt to set uppermanent target zones for exchange rates, Gleske stressed,adding such targets would be extremely difficult to agree andenforce on an international level.    "At present levels the dollar can no longer be consideredgrossly overvalued in relation to the European currencies andthe yen," Gleske said.    He said the dollar had fallen much less against currenciesof important trading nations such as Canada, Korea, Taiwan andHong Kong, and further falls there may still be necessary.    But "a further dollar depreciation against major Europeancurrencies and the yen may not be the best way to restore thedollar to a fully competitive position, as measured by itsweighted external value," he said.   In fact, a further marked decline in the dollar rate wouldhold two major dangers, Gleske said.    First, in countries with large balance of paymentssurpluses such as Japan and West Germany, it threatened tohamper economic growth and thus slow down the expansion of realincome and domestic expenditure necessary to wipe outsurpluses.    Second, in the United States, it could damage investors'confidence in the dollar and thus reduce their willingness tofinance huge fiscal and external payments deficits, Gleskesaid.    Gleske also was strongly sceptical that an internationalsystem of binding target zones for currencies, fluctuating innarrow bands against each other, can be established. Suchtargets threatened to cause policy conflicts, "both withincountries and between them."    For instance, the U.S. Reliance on foreign capital to fundits deficits requires interest rates there be set at highlevels, but domestic considerations call for low ones.    If target zones were established, this would put "pressureon other countries to reduce their interest rates even more,even though this may be in conflict with their own domesticsituation and priorities," he said.    Gleske added, "targeting the exchange rate even within awide margin will meet with serious objections where there is aclearly perceived potential for conflict between domestic andexternal policy priorities."    Commenting on the Paris currency accord, Gleske said itschances of stabilising exchange rates rested heavily on currentinterest rate differentials being maintained.    These chances "seem to me to rest critically on theexpectation that the current configuration of interest rates,and the monetary policies behind them, will assure smoothfinancing of current account imbalances in the months ahead."    Gleske said past experience of currency adjustments hadlearned "that markets are inclined to be impatient and will thustend to overshoot." He said this "would seem to be unnecessaryand should be avoided if at all possible."    Monetary policies can help achieve this, but only ifmarkets believe that pledged changes in fiscal policies willlead to balanced international payments, he said. REUTER
BAKER DENIES DOLLAR TARGET EXISTS U.S. Treasury Secretary James Bakeragain said the meeting of six major industrial nations in Parislast month did not establish a target exchange rate for thedollar.    Baker said in a television interview aired here yesterday:"We don't have a target for the dollar." He declined to commenton what might be a desired level for the dollar, saying: "Wereally don't talk about the dollar."    He said protectionism was becoming "extremely strong" in theU.S. In response to widening U.S. Trade deficits and importbarriers in other countries.    "The mood in the United States is extremely disturbing. It'sextremely strong," he said.    "As I've said before, we sort of see ourselves as engagedhere in a real struggle to preserve the world's free tradingsystem, because if the largest market in the world (the U.S.)goes protectionist we run the risk of moving down the same paththat the world did in the late 1930s," he said.    While relative exchange rates had a role to play indefusing the threat of protectionism, it alone did not offerany solution, he said.    "You must address this problem on the exchange rate side,but it cannot be solved on the exchange rate side alone. It'sfar more comprehensive and broad than that, and the solution ofit requires a comprehensive approach," Baker said in theinterview.    Baker said it would be necessary for other countries toadjust their currencies upwards, as well as remove theirbarriers to U.S. Imports. But he did not elaborate or name anycountries. REUTER
BAKER DENIES DOLLAR TARGET EXISTS U.S. Treasury Secretary James Bakeragain said the meeting of six major industrial nations in Parislast month did not establish a target exchange rate for thedollar.    Baker said in a television interview aired here yesterday:"We don't have a target for the dollar." He declined to commenton what might be a desired level for the dollar, saying: "Wereally don't talk about the dollar."    He said protectionism was becoming "extremely strong" in theU.S. In response to widening U.S. Trade deficits and importbarriers in other countries.    "The mood in the United States is extremely disturbing. It'sextremely strong," he said.    "As I've said before, we sort of see ourselves as engagedhere in a real struggle to preserve the world's free tradingsystem, because if the largest market in the world (the U.S.)goes protectionist we run the risk of moving down the same paththat the world did in the late 1930s," he said.    While relative exchange rates had a role to play indefusing the threat of protectionism, it alone did not offerany solution, he said.    "You must address this problem on the exchange rate side,but it cannot be solved on the exchange rate side alone. It'sfar more comprehensive and broad than that, and the solution ofit requires a comprehensive approach," Baker said in theinterview.    Baker said it would be necessary for other countries toadjust their currencies upwards, as well as remove theirbarriers to U.S. Imports. But he did not elaborate or name anycountries. REUTER
Dollar hits record low of 149.78 yen - Tokyo British manufacturers expect output togrow rapidly in the four coming months, a Confederation ofBritish Industry (CBI) survey shows.    The CBI's monthly trends survey for March shows that 43 pctof the 1,685 polled U.K. Firms expect to raise output in thenext four months. Only nine pct expect output to fall while 47pct said production would likely remain unchanged.    The CBI said the positive balance between firms expectingproduction to rise and those forecasting a fall, at 34 pct, wasthe highest such figure recorded since 1977.    In the CBI's February survey, 37 pct of companies expecteda rise in output while 54 pct forecast production would remainat present levels and eight pct expected production to drop.    The survey also showed that 23 pct of the polled companiesconsider current order books to be above normal while 58 pctview them as normal and only 19 pct regard them as belownormal.    This was the highest positive balance since the questionwas first asked more than 10 years ago, the CBI said.    In February, the figures were 24 pct, 22 pct and 54 pctrespectively.    Companies also rated their export possibilities higher. Ofall polled companies, 23 pct rated their export order books tobe above normal and 53 pct described them as normal while only23 pct believed export orders were below normal levels.    In February, 25 pct thought their export books were belownormal and 50 pct believed them to be about normal. At 23 pct,the proportion of companies rating their export books abovenormal was unchanged between February and March.    On prices, the survey showed that 62 pct of companiesexpect average prices at which domestic orders are booked willremain unchanged in the coming four months, up from 57 pct inFebruary.    From 38 pct in February, only 31 pct of firms now expectprices to rise before July. Six pct forecast prices will fall,against four pct a month earlier.    Commenting on the survey, CBI economic situation committeechairman David Wigglesworth said sterling's more competitivelevel against many European currencies had improved exports.    "But interest rates are still much higher than in ourcompetitor countries and British manufacturers will still haveto work hard to win new business both in overseas markets andin the substitution of British-made goods for imports here athome," he said. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN RE-ENTERS MARKET AND STEPS UP DOLLAR BUYING, DEA The Bank of Japan stepped up its dollarbuying as it re-entered the market after the midday Tokyo lunchbreak, dealers said.    They said the bank seemed more determined to support thedollar than it did this morning.    Several dealers said the central bank intervened thisafternoon when the dollar stood around 149 yen.    One said it purchased 150 to 200 mln dlrs in the half-hoursince the market re-opened after its lunchtime closure. Anothersaid the bank still has buying orders in the market. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN STEPS UP DOLLAR BUYING The Bank of Japan stepped up its dollarbuying as it re-entered the market after the midday Tokyo lunchbreak, dealers said.    They said the bank seemed more determined to support thedollar than it did this morning.    Several dealers said the central bank intervened thisafternoon when the dollar stood around 149 yen.    One said it purchased 150 to 200 mln dlrs in the half-hoursince the market re-opened after its lunchtime closure. Anothersaid the bank still has buying orders in the market. REUTER
DOUBTS ABOUT ACCORD SEEN WEAKENING DOLLAR FURTHER The dollar is expected to decline furtherin coming days as scepticism mounts about the effectiveness oflast month's Paris accord to stabilise currency exchange rates,senior foreign exchange dealers said.    Following its fall today to a record 148.40 yen, dealerssaid they expect the dollar to establish a new trading range of147 to 150 yen before the market again tries to push it down.Behind the latest dollar fall lies the belief that last month'saccord was no longer enough to stop operators pushing thedollar down, the dealers said.    "The recent remark by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Bakerthat the Paris accord did not set any target ranges for majorcurrencies has cast a shadow on the agreement," said KojiKidokoro, general manager of Mitsui Bank Ltd's treasurydivision.    He said the market interpreted this as indicating the U.S.Would favour a weaker dollar and it had little intention ofintervening to support the currency.    "This eliminated the widespread market caution againstpossible joint central bank intervention," Kidokoro said.    Dealers said the dollar had gathered renewed downwardmomentum and that Bank of Japan intervention alone could hardlycontain a further slide in the currency.    They said the central bank bought between one to 1.5billion dlrs today, including direct purchases through brokers,and yesterday it might have bought a small amount of dollarsthrough the U.S. Central bank in New York.    Most dealers said they doubted the U.S. Federal Reservewould intervene on its own account to support the dollar, butsome said this might occur if the dollar fell much below 148yen.    "If the dollar drops to that low level, it could reduce theflow of foreign capital into U.S. Securities, which theAmericans don't want," said Haruya Uehara, chief money marketmanager of Mitsubishi Trust and Banking Corp.    He said the dollar may return to around 152 yen next monthwhen corporations reduce their dollar sales after they closetheir books for the 1986/87 business year ending on March 31.    But dealers said the longer-term outlook for the dollarremained bearish. This was due to the lacklustre performance ofthe U.S. Economy, the continuing U.S. Trade deficit andJapanese delays in announcing an economic stimulation package.    "The Americans are getting frustrated at Japan's inertia instimulating its economy," said Hirozumi Tanaka, assistantgeneral manager of Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd's internationaltreasury division.    In the Paris currency accord Japan promised a package ofeconomic measures, after the fiscal 1987 budget was passed, toboost domestic demand, increase imports, and thus reduce itstrade surplus. The package was expected in April, but debate onthe budget has been delayed by an opposition boycott ofparliamentary business over the proposed introduction of asales tax.    In the circumstances the government had only a slim chanceof producing a meaningful economic package in the near future,Dai-Ichi Kangyo's Tanaka said.    Dealers said if steps are not taken to stimulate theJapanese economy protectionist sentiment in the U.S. Congresswould grow and put more downward pressure on the dollar. REUTER
DOLLAR DROP SEEN AS TEST OF PARIS AGREEMENT The sharp drop in the value of thedollar against the yen and the mark is the first serious testof last month's Group of Five (G-5) plus Canada agreement tostabilise currencies, dealers and bank economists said.    "The dollar will be pushed down until there is coordinatedcentral bank intervention," one dealer for a German bank said,echoing widepread sentiment in the market.    But opinion was divided on whether the united front forgedin Paris still exists. Some dealers said there were growingsigns the United States wanted the dollar to fall further.    Despite repeated Bank of Japan intervention, the dollarplunged to a post-war low in Tokyo today. It was quoted as lowas 148.40 yen in the Far East and dealers here said theyexpected the U.S. Currency to decline further.    "The dollar is now firmly within a broad 140 to 150 yenrange," Chase Bank AG's senior dealer Eckhart Hager said.    Others said there were technical reasons for the sharpdollar drop. "Window-dressing" operations by some Japanesecompanies who were selling dollars and buying yen before theend of the Japanese fiscal year on March 31 were underminingthe U.S. Currency.    Dealers said main reason for the sell-off was nottechnical. U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker's comment theParis accord did not have fixed dollar targets was seen as arenewed attempt by the U.S. Administration to talk the dollardown.    "Suddenly, support levels which had existed for fear ofcentral bank intervention disappeared," one dealer said.    The Bank of Japan was believed to have bought some 1.5billion dlrs, and this with comments by Japanese officialsindicated Tokyo was unhappy about the plunge, dealers said.Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita threatened central bankintervention if necessary.    Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said today thetime had come for the six nations who agreed in Paris lastmonth to stabilise currencies - Japan, Britain, Canada, France,the U.S. And West Germany - to take action in line with thepact.    But the Bundesbank and other European central banks werenot detected in the open market during the European morning.Opinion here was divided on when the Bundesbank would act.    While some said the West German central bank would supportthe dollar once it fell below 1.80 marks, others said theBundesbank would only intervene after a fall below 1.75 marksor if the decline accelerated.    The Bundesbank last intervened on January 27, when thedollar threatened to fall below 1.81 marks.    "The Japanese seem to be on their own at the moment," onedealer said. Others said cooperation between central banks andgovernments was easier said than done.    Some said Baker's remarks and U.S. Trade RepresentativeClayton Yeutter's warning that the U.S. And Japan were on theverge of a serious trade conflict showed there was a rift.    "It's hard to tell whether the G-6 agreement still stands," adealer said. Another added, "If the Americans do not get whatthey want, they will push the dollar down, regardless of G-6."    Citibank AG also cast doubt on the chances of success forthe Paris agreement in its latest investment letter.    "It is hard to see that Japan and Germany are willing orable to loosen fiscal policy sufficiently to offset thenecessary U.S. Fiscal contraction," Citibank said.    It added, "Markets should therefore be aware that 1.80 marksis not the lower limit for the dollar -- a rate of 1.70 marksor even less is expected this year."    And London Broker Hoare Govett said in its March 1987economic report, "We are looking for a further, more gradual,fall, possibly to 1.60 marks by the end of the year."    But opinion about whether the Paris accord was still inforce was not universal. Some dealers said not too much shouldbe read into Baker's and Yeutter's comments.    "There is no reason to believe the Paris pact has brokendown," a senior dealer said. REUTER
N.Y. DEALERS BELIEVE FED INTERVENED TO BUY DLRS The Federal Reserve appears to haveintervened in the U.S. foreign exchange market to buy dollarsagainst yen this morning, currency dealers said.    They said the intervention occurred near the dollar's earlylow of 148.50 yen and the U.S. currency subsequently firmed to149.05/15. It closed at 150.00/05 on Monday.    Dealers were uncertain of the amount involved and whetherthe Fed's purchases were for its own account or for a customer.But there was speculation that it may have been done inconjunction with the Bank of Japan. Tokyo dealers said theJapanese central bank bought dollars in Tokyo earlier today. Reuter
DOLLAR EXPECTED TO FALL DESPITE INTERVENTION Central bank intervention in theforeign exchange markets succeeded in staunching the dollar'slosses today, but senior dealers here believe the U.S. currencyis headed for a further retreat.    Although the intervention was widespread, dealers perceivethat the six major industrial nations have differing levels ofcommitment to their recent accord to stabilize currencies.    Moreover, hard economic realities hold greater sway overthe currency market than central bank intervention and theseargue for a further dollar decline, dealers said.    "The market can be bigger than the central banks. Andeconomic fundamentals will always come to the fore," said adealer at one major U.S. bank.    As the dollar dropped to post-World War II lows against theyen today foreign exchange traders said the Bank of Japan,Federal Reserve Board and Bank of England intervened in themarkets on behalf of the U.S. currency.    Reports of the authorities' actions helped the dollarrecover to about 149.45 yen in New York this afternoon fromthe post-war low of 148.20 yen in the Far East. But it stillfailed to regain Monday's U.S. closing level of 150.00/05 yen.    Tokyo dealers said the Bank of Japan bought one to 1.5billion dlrs in Tokyo today and may also have purchased dollarsyesterday in the U.S. via the Federal Reserve.    Meanwhile, there were strong rumors in New York that theFed also bought a modest amount of dollars around 148.50 yentoday. Talk also circulated that the Bank of England purchaseda small amount of dollars for yen.    The Fed's last confirmed intervention was on January 28when it bought 50 mln dlrs in coordination with the Bank ofJapan. But on March 11 the Fed also was rumored to havesignalled displeasure with a dollar surge above 1.87 marks.    The authorities' actions appeared to back up the February22 Paris pact between the U.S., Japan, West Germany, Britain,France and Canada under which the nations agreed to cooperateto foster exchange rate stability around prevailing levels.    But foreign exchange dealers were not overly impressed bythe authorities' intervention which they said can only softenextreme moves in the market.    For one thing, some dealers believed that the Fed'spurchases were done on behalf of the Bank of Japan rather thanfor the U.S. central bank's own account, suggesting a rather  watered-down American commitment to the currency accord.    The Bank of England's action also was thought to becompleted on behalf of the Japanese central bank, reinforcingthe market's view that Japan is the most resolute of the sixnations in its support of the currency pact.    "No-one doubts the Bank of Japan is serious. But the othertwo central banks seem to be making more token gestures thananything else," said Chris Bourdain of BankAmerica Corp.    "I'm not convinced the intervention was concerted," saidEarl Johnson of Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago. "It's a yen problem more than anything else."    Some dealers said a rising wave of trade protectionistsentiment in the U.S. limits the extent to which the Americanauthorities can endorse a stronger dollar against the yen.    "The dollar's break below the key 150 yen level ties theTreasury's hands behind its back. The U.S. cannot intervene onits own account because of the strength of protectionism here,"said Albert Soria of Swiss Bank Corp.    Such comments reflect the view that the currency marketsare becoming increasingly politicized. Despite officialdenials, some traders still feel the U.S. would countenance alower dollar to help trim the nation's trade deficit.    The majority of the 170 billion dlr merchandise tradedeficit in 1986 was with Japan.    Indeed U.S. Treasury secretary James Baker's comment onSunday that the February currency pact had not establisheddollar targets was read by the market as a signal to sell theU.S. currency and kicked off the latest retreat.    "The dollar still has more room on the downside against theyen based on the frictions in trade and financial services. Thecurrency market is becoming very political," said Natsuo Okadaof Sumitomo Bank Ltd.    Okada expects the dollar to trade between 148 and 150 yenthis week but sees the chance of a drop to 140 yen by the endof April or early May.    Even if West Germany and Japan succeed in stimulating theireconomies, it may not be enough to solve structural economicimbalances in the near future, dealers said.    "Even if Japan and West Germany do expand this year, itwon't be enough to help the trade situation much," saidBourdain of BankAmerica, who also expects the dollar to drop to148 yen in the next couple of days. Reuter
FED'S JOHNSON SAYS DOLLAR STABILIZED AFTER FED TOOK APPROPRIAT The chairman of the Federal ReserveBoard, Paul Volcker, has written to the chairman of the HouseBanking Committee to raise concerns about legislative proposalsscheduled for consideration Wednesday.    Volcker told committee chairman Fernand St. Germain aproposal to deny primary dealer status to firms from countriesthat do not grant U.S. firms equal access to their governmentdebt markets might invite retaliation against U.S. firmsabroad.    He added, "even Japan, against whom this proposal seems tobe particularly directed," has started opening its markets.    In his letter, made available at the Treasury, Volcker alsosaid a proposal to ease debt problems of developing countriesby setting up a public facility to buy their debts owed tocommercial banks, was a problem.    "I believe that the prospect of debt relief would underminethe difficult internal efforts of the borrowing countries toachieve the structural reform that is needed regardless of thepolicies that are followed on servicing external debt," Volckersaid.    It might also cause private lenders to become reluctant toextend more credit to the borrowing countries, he said.    Volcker said he endorsed comments by Treasury SecretaryJames Baker "about the inappropriateness of using publicresources for purchasing private commercial bank debt, which weboth see as an inherent aspect of the proposed internationaldebt facility."    He also said a proposal for establishing formal proceduresfor international negotiations on currency exchange rates "isunrealistic and could well have damaging effects."    "For example, the bill's directive to intitiate negotiationsin order to achieve a competitive exchange rate for the dollar-- a matter upon which there can be considerable differenceamong analysts -- runs the risk of building up potentiallydestabilizing market expectations," Volcker said.    He recommended "we should not lock ourselves into formalizedprocedures for international negotiations" on exchange rates butinstead use other, more flexible means like the recent mmetingin Paris between U.S. treasury and central bank representativesand those of major trade allies. Reuter
FED'S JOHNSON SAYS FED ACTED TO STABILIZE DOLLAR Federal Reserve Board Vice ChairmanManuel Johnson said the dollar has stabilized against othercurrencies after action taken by the Fed.    "We have taken the appropriate action and the dollar hasstabilized," Johnson said after testifying to a House Bankingsubcommittee.    He did not elaborate on the nature of the action nor whenit was taken, but said that it was in the spirit of theagreement reached by six industrial nations in Paris recently.    Johnson said the dollar's decline against other currenciessuch as the Japanese yen has been gradual.    Since the accord by the United States, Britain, WestGermany, Japan, France and Canada, foreign exchange marketshave been closely watching for indications of intervention bycentral banks to determine the committment by those nations totheir agreement.    The nations agreed that currency exchange rates were atabout the correct levels when the pact was signed earlier thisyear. Reuter
VOLCKER CALLS DOLLAR SLIDE ENOUGH Federal Reserve Board Chairman PaulVolcker said that the dollar's slide in currency markets hasbeen enough, a Fed spokesman said.    The spokesman confirmed that Volcker, who spoke to a groupof financial analysts, said in answer to a question about thedollar's recent slide that "enough is enough."    Volcker has often expressed concern about the dollarfalling too rapidly in currency markets. Reuter
Bank of Japan bought 200 to 300 mln dlrs this morning, deale The Bank of Japan bought a modest amountof dollars this morning, possibly around 200 to 300 mln,dealers said.    One dealer said the central bank bought about 200 mln dlrsthrough brokers and the rest through banks. The buying beganwhen the dollar was at about 149.60 yen, and helped drive theU.S. Currency up to around 150, he said.    Another said the central bank seemed to be trying to pushthe dollar up above 150 yen. But heavy selling at around thatlevel quickly pushed the dollar back down towards 149 yen,dealers said. REUTER
Bank of Japan keeps intervening to hold dollar above 149 yen, The Bank of Japan is continuing tointervene in the Tokyo market, buying small amounts of dollarsto hold the unit above 149 yen, brokers said.    They said the Bank is coming in when the dollar is around149.05/10 yen, the same levels as New York's close yesterdayand the midday close in Tokyo today.    Dealers said the Bank of Japan is intervening in the marketthrough both banks and brokers this afternoon.    The central bank is checking selling orders through banksand placing matching buy orders, they said.    The central bank started to intervene shortly after themarket opened here in the afternoon, the dealers said. REUTER
Japan Trade Ministry asks trade houses, exporters to reduce dlr sales, The Food Department will no longerimport sugar from April 1, senior officials of the Food andCooperatives Ministry and the Department told Reuters.    They said the decision was taken after the Sugar ImportersAssociation asked that the sugar trade be further liberalised.    "The Food Department will cease trading in sugar and will nolonger hold a buffer stock," a senior official said.    He said the government has finalised an agreement withE.D.F.Man (Sugar) Ltd under which E.D.F.Man will hold a bufferstock on the government's behalf of 20,000 tonnes, against the45,000 tonne buffer stock usually held by the Department.    Officials said the size of the buffer stock has beenreduced because the private sector will hold its own stocks.    The agreement with E.D.F. Man includes details such astrigger pricing mechanisms, they said.    Four months ago the Department allowed the private sectorto import sugar without government clearance. The Departmentand the private sector each imported around 115,000 tonnes ofsugar last year, when national consumption was 280,000 tonnes.    An Importers Association official said that "even if theDepartment no longer imports sugar, we would not necessarilybuy more."    This is because the Association would still have to competewith the Cooperatives Wholesale Establishment (CWE), he said.    The CWE is a semi-government body and the official saidarrangements are being made for state cooperatives and holdersof food subsidy stamps to draw their sugar from it, startingApril 1.    Ministry officials said the CWE can either import sugar orbuy it from a local bonded warehousing scheme run by E.D.F. Forthe past two years. REUTER
JAPAN ASKS TRADERS, EXPORTERS TO CUT DOLLAR SALES The Ministry of International Trade andIndustry (MITI) has asked about 30 Japanese trading houses andexporters to refrain from excessive dollar selling, tradinghouse officials said.    The officials told Reuters MITI asked them to moderatetheir foreign exchange trading because the excessive rise inthe yen will have unfavourable effects on the economy. It madethe request by telephone.    A MITI official said the ministry has conducted a survey offoreign exchange trading by trade houses and exporters. But hesaid it was not aimed at moderating dollar selling.    The trading house officials said MITI had asked them toundertake foreign exchange transactions with due considerationto the adverse effects excessive exchange rate movements wouldhave on the economy.    The MITI official said MITI undertakes such surveys whenexchange rates fluctuate widely. A similiar survey was madewhen the currency fell to the previous record low of 149.98 onJanuary 19. It hit a new record low of 148.20 yen yesterday.    He said the survey showed currency transactions by tradehouses and exporters contributed little to the dollar fall. REUTER
YEN MAY RISE TO 140 TO THE DLR, NIKKEIREN SAYS The yen could rise to 140 yen to thedollar, a leading Japanese businessman said.    Bumpei Otsuki, president of the influential JapanFederation of Employers' Associations, (Nikkeiren), toldreporters: "The yen might rise as far as 140 (to the dollar).The U.S. Economy is not good, and as long as the U.S. Economyis not good, the U.S. Will put various pressures (on Japan)."    "The yen's level depends on the condition of the U.S.Economy rather than Japan's economy, and as long as theAmerican situation is bad, the yen will continue to rise," hesaid.    To cope with the negative impact of the strong yen,Japanese enterprises must strive to cut costs by all means,including holding down wages as much as possible, Otsuki said.    He rejected recent calls from some government quarters forwage increases this year as a means of raising privateconsumption and thus boosting domestic demand.    "We have to keep wages as low as possible," he said.    He also said the yen's large and rapid rise is depressingthe outlook for the Japanese economy, noting that in additionto hurting exporters it is also damaging domestic marketmanufacturers through cheap imports.    Parts of the service sector are also threatened, Otsukisaid.    Tertiary industries provide services to manufacturers and adownturn in manufacturing profits will adversely affect serviceindustries, he said.    It is also doubtful whether the tertiary sector can fullyemploy those put out of work in the manufacturing sector, hesaid.    Profits of service sector companies are likely to fall inthe business year ending in March 1988, leading to a possiblerecession in the Japanese economy, he said.    Otsuki said economic growth is unlikely to pick up beyondlevels experienced in 1986.    The government's Economic Planning Agency said last weekthe economy grew at 2.5 pct in 1986, the worst performancesince 1974 when the economy shrank 1.4 pct due to the first oilprice crisis.    In order to stimulate domestic demand and boost theeconomy, tax reforms aimed at bringing down the cost of landand reforming the nation's housing stock are needed, along withsteps to bring down the high cost of commodities, he said. REUTER
JAPAN BUYS MODEST AMOUNT OF DOLLARS, DEALERS SAY The Bank of Japan bought a modest amountof dollars this morning, possibly around 200 to 300 mln,dealers said.    One dealer said the central bank bought about 200 mln dlrsthrough brokers and the rest through banks. The buying beganwhen the dollar was at about 149.60 yen, and helped drive theU.S. Currency up to around 150, he said.    Another said the central bank seemed to be trying to pushthe dollar up above 150 yen. But heavy selling at around thatlevel quickly pushed the dollar back down towards 149 yen,dealers said. REUTER
JAPAN ASKS TRADERS, EXPORTERS TO CUT DOLLAR SALES The Ministry of International Trade andIndustry (MITI) has asked about 30 Japanese trading houses andexporters to refrain from excessive dollar selling, tradinghouse officials said.    The officials told Reuters MITI asked them to moderatetheir foreign exchange trading because the excessive rise inthe yen will have unfavourable effects on the economy. It madethe request by telephone.    A MITI official said the ministry has conducted a survey offoreign exchange trading by trade houses and exporters. But hesaid it was not aimed at moderating dollar selling.    The trading house officials said MITI had asked them toundertake foreign exchange transactions with due considerationto the adverse effects excessive exchange rate movements wouldhave on the economy.    The MITI official said MITI undertakes such surveys whenexchange rates fluctuate widely. A similiar survey was madewhen the currency fell to the previous record low of 149.98 onJanuary 19. It hit a new record low of 148.20 yen yesterday.    He said the survey showed currency transactions by tradehouses and exporters contributed little to the dollar fall. REUTER
CENTRAL BANKS BUY DOLLARS FOR YEN IN LONDON The Bank of Japan intervened to stemstrong yen rises against the dollar during London trading thismorning, dealers said.    The Bank of Japan here declined comment.    The Bank of England was also rumored to be buying dollarsagainst the yen this morning but it also declined comment.    Dealers said the intervention halted a sudden late morningdrop to a low of 148.65 yen, holding the dollar steady untilmidsession at about 148.80.    The Bank of England was strongly rumored to have intervenedon behalf of the dollar against the yen yesterday, but it gaveno confirmation.    Overnight reports from Tokyo said that the Bank of Japanwas aggressively supporting the dollar, but failed to push itback to the perceived target level of 150 yen.    Selling during the London trading morning was largelyattributed to Japanese institutions.    Dealers here were loath to quantify the scale of Bank ofJapan action this morning. One U.S. Bank trader said it couldhave been up to 500 mln dlrs, but said this was largely aguess. REUTER
 Bundesbank buys dollars for yen - Frankfurt Reuters Holdings Plc <RTRS.L> said ithad agreed in principle to buy <I P Sharp Associates Ltd> ofToronto for 30.4 mln stg.    Sharp is a time-sharing network and database companyspecialising in finance, economics, energy and aviation. Itoperates a global packet-switching network and global limitssystems for foreign exchange trading.    Sharp shareholders will be offered cash, shares or amixture of the two in settlement. The acquisition, which issubject to Canadian government approval, would be throughamalgamation into a specially-created company.    Reuters said it had been given options by a number of Sharpshareholders covering 67 pct of the common stock pendingcompletion of a Reuters review of the company.    Sharp operates 38 offices in 20 countries. In 1986 itreported revenue of 55 mln Canadian dlrs with a pretax loss of1.6 mln compared with a 1.9 mln profit in 1985.    However, Sharp said that internal accounts showed thecompany was in profit in the first two months of 1987.    End-1986 net assets totalled 11.85 mln dlrs.    A Reuters statement said the acquisition would fitperfectly into its package for the banking and securitiesindustries. REUTER
BUNDESBANK BUYS DOLLARS IN FRANKFURT - DEALERS The Bundesbank bought large amountsof dollars for yen in an apparent attempt to hold the dollarabove 149 yen, dealers said.    The dollar intervention was in concert with some othercentral banks, they said.    Dealers said the Bank of Japan and Bank of Englandsupported the dollar against the yen earlier today and thatthese two banks and the U.S. Federal Reserve were also activeyesterday.    The Bundesbank declined to comment on the dealers' remarks.    Dealers said the intervention underlined the determinationof central banks to keep currencies within recent rangesfollowing last month's agreement in Paris by six leadingcountries to foster currency stability.    One dealer said he had been repeatedly in contact with theBundesbank during the morning to see if it wanted to buydollars after the Japanese and U.K. Central bank moves.    He said the Bundesbank told him it was observing thesituation to see if it should intervene in consultation withother central banks.    Since the Paris agreement on February 22 the dollar haduntil yesterday traded in a 1.8150-1.8700 mark range, and above150 yen, with traders reluctant to push the dollar down to testcentral banks' resolve to defend currency stability.    But the test came this week with the dollar falling below1.81 marks and 150 yen. Dealers said a reviving trade disputebetween Washington and Tokyo and growing sentiment that thedollar would have to fall further to narrow the obstinate U.S.Trade deficit were behind the weakness.    This week's intervention showed central banks were preparedto cooperate to defend the Paris pact, dealers said.    Dealers said it was significant the West German and Britishcentral banks were supporting the dollar against the yen.    That showed the pact involved multilateral cooperation bycentral banks to foster currency stability, they said.    But it was unclear how such cooperation was being arrangedand how frequent consultations between central banks were. REUTER
JOHNSON SAYS FED'S ACTIONS YESTERDAY MEANT TO STABILIZE DOLLAR AT CURREN Shr 23 cts vs not reported    Net 282,000 vs 1,000    Sales 18.6 mln vs 18.7 mln    Six mths    Shr 48 cts vs 17 cts    Net 583,000 vs 213,000    Sales 37.8 mln vs 37.5 mln   NOTE: 1987 six months net includes a loss from discontinuedoperations equal to two cts a share.    1986 net includes losses from discontinued operations offour cts in the quarter and six cts in the six months. Reuter
BANK OF JAPAN BUYS SMALL QUANTITY DOLLARS -DEALERS The Bank of Japan was thought to havebought a small amount of dollars at around 149.30/40 yen,dealers said.    The dollar fluctuated marginally after the small-scaleintervention, believed to total several tens of mlns of dlrs,they said. Large-scale buying by foreign banks or by a lifeinsurance company earlier pushed the dollar upwards, they said.    Trading was not very active and dealers were watching forfurther central bank intervention to smooth out any sharpmovements, but underlying dollar sentiment is still bearish. REUTER
BANK OF FRANCE BUYS DOLLARS, SELLS YEN - Tunisia has decided to break diplomaticrelations with Iran, the foreign ministry said.    A communique published by the official TAP news agency saidthe Iranian embassy in Tunis had been engaged in activitiesliable to disturb public order.    These included acts aimed at sowing ideological confusionand anarchy, the communique said. Reuter
BANK OF FRANCE BUYS DOLLARS, SELLS YEN - DEALERS The Bank of France intervened on themarket to buy dollars and sell yen to support the U.S.Currency, dealers said.    A major French bank said it acted for the central bank inbuying between five and 15 mln dlrs against yen.    A dealer at another bank said his bank had been asked topublicise the intervention, to send a clear signal to themarkets that central banks were acting in concert to maintainthe exchange rates agreed to be appropriate at last month'smeeting of the Group of Five and Canada in Paris.    The dollar was being quoted at 6.0950/70 francs in earlyafternoon dealings after a fix of 6.09425 francs.    The major French bank said it sold yen at a rate of 149.28against the dollar.    The U.S. Currency was subsequently being quoted at149.25/35.    The Bank of Japan was reported in the market overnight tobolster the credibility of the Paris accord following severaldays of pressure against the dollar.    Pressure developed after U.S. Treasury Secretary JamesBaker repeated earlier statements that the Reaganadministration had no targets for the dollar, apparentlyundermining the assumption that the agreement in Paris hadfixed broad fluctuation ranges for major currencies.    Baker later said his remark had been misinterpreted. REUTER
DOLLAR/YEN INTERVENTION RESPONDS TO PRESSURE The Bank of France intervened to buysmall amounts of dollars and sell yen in Paris today tostabilise the exchange rates agreed at last month's meeting ofFinance Ministers of the Group of Five and Canada, foreignexchange dealers said.    But they said recent central bank intervention in theforeign exchange markets appeared to be a limited reaction totemporary pressures rather than a major defence operation.    A Bank of France spokesman declined all comment but sourcesclose to the central bank said it had also intervenedyesterday.    Dealers said the earlier intervention was in concert withthe Bundesbank and Bank of Japan.    The sources said the French central bank could have been inthe market again today in two-way operations, not necessarilyon its own account, but to counter short-term pressures arisingfrom the end of the Japanese financial year on March 31.    One major French bank said it bought between five and 15mln dlrs for the central bank and sold yen at 149.28 to thedollar.    Another bank said it had been asked by the Bank of Franceto say it was in the market, a departure from the centralbank's usual insistence on confidentiality.    But other banks said they had seen no sign of intervention,which they said appeared to be on a very limited scale.    "Even if 10 banks were buying five to 15 mln dlrs, you wouldstill be talking of a small overall amount," said one dealer.    Recent intervention by the Bank of Japan appeared mainly tohave been required to meet year-end window dressing demand foryen. "This is a specific short term phenomenon rather than awider trend," the dealer said.    Operators have been extremely cautious about testing thedollar's trading ranges against the West German mark andJapanese yen.    These ranges were set in February's stabilisation agreementreached here by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker and theFinance Ministers of Japan, Germany, France, Britain andCanada.    But speculative pressures started to build again this weekafter Baker was quoted on British television at the weekend asrepeating earlier statements that Washington had no target forthe dollar.    Baker yesterday moved to defuse speculation he was talkingthe dollar down, telling a Cable News Network interviewer and aSenate committee he stood by the Paris agreement. Foreignexchange markets had been misreading his comments, he said. REUTER
FED'S HELLER SAYS DOLLAR'S CURRENT LEVEL IS APP Qtly div 17-1/2 cts vs 17-1/2 cts prior    Pay June 5    Record May 22 Reuter
FED'S HELLER SAYS DOLLAR'S LEVEL IS APPROPRIATE Federal Reserve Board governor RobertHeller said that the dollar's current level is appropriate butdeclined to comment on widespread market reports of concertedcentral bank intervention this week.    "The dollar is stable again... The current level is theappropriate level," Heller told reporters after a speech to ameeting of financial services analysts.    He said last month's six-nation currency accord in Parisdid not include target ranges for the dollar in an "academicway."    Heller also said that it was too early to determine whetherthe parties to the six-nation accord were taking appropriatesteps to carry out the longer-term economic adjustments agreedto in Paris.    "Clearly, they've not been implemented yet... No oneexpects implementation within a week or two," he said.    Earlier today, U.S. Treasury assistant secretary told aSenate banking subcommittee that he did not believe that WestGermany and Japan have yet carried out their internationalresponsibilities. Reuter
Bank of Japan buys dollars around 149.00 yen - Tokyo The White House Economic PolicyCouncil decided to recommend trade sanctions against Japan forviolations of the U.S.-Japanese semiconductor agreement,industry sources said.    They would give no details, noting that the White House hadnot commented on the decision. The administration has beenunder pressure to retaliate.    There was no immediate announcement on the council'sdecision, but U.S. Officials said it was likely the seniorpolicy group's move on curbs reflected growing Americanfrustration over alleged unfair Japanese trade practices.    U.S. Officials said President Reagan would probably act onthe recommendations in a day or so, after consulting with aideson the foreign policy implications of retaliation.    The officials said Reagan might delay retaliation for alast try to persuade Japan to abide by the agreement reachedlast July governing trade in semiconductors.    Under a pact reached last July, Japan was to stop dumpingsemiconductors in world markets and to open its own market toU.S.-made semiconductors.    In return, the U.S. Agreed to hold up imposing anti-dumpingduties on Japanese semiconductor shipments.    The United States said that dumping has stopped in the U.S.Market but has continued in third countries, and that theJapanese market remains closed.    The pressure on Reagan to retaliate included a unanimouscall by the Senate last week to impose penalties on Japanesehigh technology products containing semiconductors.    A call for retaliation also came from the semiconductorindustry and from its chief trade union.    U.S. Officials said the most likely move against Japanwould involve duties on semiconductor-based goods, such astelevisions, video cassette recorders and computers. REUTER
JAPAN SETS ASIDE YEN FUNDS TO PREVENT DLR FALL The 50-day provisional 1987/88 budget,adopted today by the government, allows the Finance Ministry toissue up to 14,600 billion yen worth of foreign exchange fundfinancing bills, government sources said.    Foreign exchange dealers said the yen funds would be usedto buy dollars, to prevent a further dollar fall.    The government sources said the amount, covering the first50 days of the year starting April 1, accounts for more than 90pct of the 16,000 billion yen in bills incorporated in the fullbudget. REUTER
 Bank of France buying dollars for yen - banking Japanese primary aluminium imports roseto 98,170 tonnes in February from 91,157 in January and 94,926a year earlier, the Japan Aluminium Federation said.    This brought total imports in 1986/87, ending March 31, to1.09 mln tonnes against 1.25 mln a year earlier.    The February total included 19,102 tonnes from the U.S.Against 16,577 in January and 9,933 a year ago, 24,391 fromAustralia against 19,585 and 21,208, and 12,611 from Indonesiaagainst 5,891 and 16,601. REUTER
 Bundesbank bought dollars against yen in Frankfurt - Provisional consolidated net attributable profit 242.1 mlnfrancs vs 240.1 mln.    Investments 318 mln vs 317 mln.    Dividend on ordinary shares 45 francs vs 42 francs.    Dividend on priority shares 51 francs vs 48 francs. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES TO STEM DOLLAR FALL The Bank of Japan intervened in themarket to keep the dollar above 149 yen but the unit was understrong selling pressure by an investment trust, dealers said.    The central bank stepped into the market when the dollarfell towards 149.00 yen, but a trust bank aggressively solddollars to hedge currency risks, and the Bank intervened againat 149.00, they said.    The trust bank apparently changed its earlier view that thedollar would rise and started selling relatively large amountsof dollars, pushing the unit down to 148.80 at one point,brokers said.    One dealer estimated that the Bank bought 400 mln to 500mln dlrs as it tried to keep the U.S. Currency above 149 yen. REUTER
JAPAN SETS ASIDE YEN FUNDS TO PREVENT DLR FALL The 50-day provisional 1987/88 budget,adopted today by the government, allows the Finance Ministry toissue up to 14,600 billion yen worth of foreign exchange fundfinancing bills, government sources said.    Foreign exchange dealers said the yen funds would be usedto buy dollars, to prevent a further dollar fall.    The government sources said the amount, covering the first50 days of the year starting April 1, accounts for more than 90pct of the 16,000 billion yen in bills incorporated in the fullbudget. REUTER
 swiss national bank says bought dollars aga <Union Miniere SA> said in a statementthat it has acquired an eight pct interest in PancontinentalMining Ltd <PANA.S> for a sum equivalent to 1.2 billion Belgianfrancs.    Pancontinental operates gold and coal mines in Australiaand natural gas and oil fields in Canada.    Union Miniere said the location of its interest within thePancontinental group will be decided later. It did notelaborate.    Union Miniere is a wholly owned subsidiary of SocieteGenerale de Belgique <BELB.BR>. REUTER
SWISS NATIONAL BANK SAYS IT BOUGHT DOLLARS The Swiss National Bank bought dollarsagainst yen today, a spokesman for the bank said.    He declined to say how many dollars the bank bought or whenprecisely it intervened.    Swiss foreign exchange dealers described the NationalBank's purchases as modest, perhaps amounting to no more than20 or 30 mln dlrs.    The Bank of France, which was reported buying dollarsagainst the yen in Paris, had made inquiries with Swiss banksas well, and the Bundesbank had also intervened. Bank of Japandollar purchases today were perhaps 1.2 to 1.5 billion dlrs.    Dealers said this tended to confirm the market's impressionthat major industrial countries had agreed at the Paris meetingon an effective floor for the dollar of 148 yen, and the marketseemed ready to test it.    Commercial clients were also selling dollars against theyen as the end of the Japanese fiscal year on March 31 drewcloser. Today's dealings in spot currencies are booked forMarch 31.    One dealer said he had the feeling Japanese companies hadbeen asked by the Bank of Japan not to sell dollars at thispoint, but some, while sticking to the letter of that request,were offering dollars forward today, rather than lose out ifthe dollar fell further.    The run on the dollar against the yen came in a marketthinned by the absence of many dealers for a Forex Club meetingin Hamburg.    Trading was, in fact, rather light against currencies otherthan the yen, the dollar holding little changed through theday.    The market now expected the U.S. Federal Reserve tointervene in support of the dollar. "But they will probably doit only half-heartedly, so I don't think it will matter toomuch on rates," one dealer said. REUTER
DEALERS SAY FED INTERVENED BUYING DOLLARS IN U.S. U.S. dealers said the New York FederalReserve Bank has intervened in the foreign exchange markettoday buying dollars against yen.    Fed officials do not comment on such intervention, butdealers said it appeared that the Fed had intervened when thedollar reached 147.50 yen in New York.    The dollar subsequently hovered at 147.55/65 yen.    Dealers said they were uncertain about the size of theintervention, but some said it was only for a small amount.They were also uncertain whether the Fed intervened on its ownaccount, or if it executed orders for the Bank of Japan. Reuter
U.S. BANKER PREDICTS FURTHER DOLLAR FALL THIS YEAR A leading U.S. Banker said the dollarwas likely to fall another five to 10 pct this year and animprovement in the huge American trade deficit would be onlytemporary at current world exchange rate levels.    Kurt Viermetz, Worldwide Treasurer of <Morgan GuarantyTrust Co>, told Arab currency traders meeting here that thesteady depreciation of the dollar had not gone far enough torein in U.S. Deficits on a lasting basis.    Speaking at the 14th annual congress of the InterarabCambist Association, Viermetz said an agreement reached lastmonth among major industrial nations to steady the dollararound current levels left many questions unanswered.    "I cannot see any chance for a real turnaround (rise) in thedollar," Viermetz said. "I believe there is room for a furtherfall of five to 10 per cent in 1987."    The United States, West Germany, Japan, France, GreatBritain and Canada -- G-6 -- agreed in Paris in late Februaryto stabilise major currencies around current levels.    The accord came after months of transatlantic argument,with Tokyo and Bonn claiming Washington's policy of talking thedollar lower had made life impossible for West German andJapanese exporters.    The Paris accord also brought a pause to the continuedslide of the dollar engineered by a meeting in New York inSeptember 1985 when industrial nations agreed to depress thevalue of the currency to help redress global trade imbalances.    But Viermetz said Morgan Guaranty's economic models showedthat with no further change in exchange rates -- and continuedsluggish growth in West Germany and Japan -- the U.S. Tradedeficit would improve only temporarily.    He said the deficit might fall to 145 billion dlrs thisyear from 165 billion in 1986 and further improve to 120billion in 1988 but by 1990, it would be back around 160billion dlrs.    "This is clearly unacceptable for the monetary authoritiesand politicians in Washington," he said.    Viermetz said it was only natural that markets shouldattempt to test the credibility of the Paris accord, struckwhen the dollar was trading at about 1.83 marks and 152.50 yen.    Immediately before the historic 1985 New York agreement or"Plaza Accord," the dollar had been trading at 2.84 marks and 240yen.    Viermetz said he believed major nations in Paris wanted tosee the dollar hold within a "loose range" of 1.75 to 1.90 marksand 145 to 155 yen, with any attempt to push the U.S. Currencylower being countered by central bank intervention.    The dollar ended in New York yesterday at 147.15/25 yen --its lowest level against the Japanese currency in roughly 40years. It closed at 1.8160/70 marks.    Viermetz also said he did not see the U.S. Federal fundsrate falling below six pct for fear of provoking anuncontrolled fall in the dollar.    But at the same time, worries about the international debtcrisis would mean there was little chance of a rise above 6-3/4pct since this would increase loan costs to the third world.    The Middle East foreign exchange conference brings togethermore than 200 traders and bank treasury chiefs from the Arabworld and Arab banks in European and U.S. Financial centres.    Formal discussions, which end today, have also centred onthe role of Arab banks in world financial markets, with bankersurging them to adapt to a new global trend towardssecuritisation of  business.    Hikmat Nashashibi, President of the Arab BankersAssociation, said Arab banks have to shake off their oldmentality of commercial banking and concentrate more oninvestment banking. REUTER
DOLLAR OPENS AT A RECORD LOW FOR TOKYO AT 145.80 YEN - The Bank of Japan has already purchasedmore than one billion dlrs in intervention since the openingand continues to buy the U.S. Currency, dealers said.    The central bank was supporting the dollar against the yenamid heavy selling pressure from investment trusts andsecurities houses which had pushed the dollar as low as 144.75yen earlier this morning, they said.    The dollar recovered slightly from the intervention and wastrading around 145.00, they added.    It had opened in Tokyo at 145.80 yen. REUTER
Sumita says he does not repeat not expect dollar to fall  Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumitasaid he does not expect the dollar to remain unstable and fallfurther.    He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament thatthe Bank of Japan would continue to cooperate closely withother major nations to stabilize exchange rates.    The central bank has been keeping extremely careful watchon exchange rate movements since last week, he said.    He said the dollar would not continue to fall because ofunderlying market concern about the rapid rise of the yen.    Sumita said the currency market has been reacting tooverseas statements and to trade tension between Japan and theU.S. Over semiconductors.    The yen's tendency to rise will prevent Japan fromexpanding domestic demand and undertaking necessary economicrestructuring, he said. REUTER
DLR FALLS ON FEAR TOKYO WON'T HIKE DEMAND-MIYAZAWA Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa saidthat the dollar's drop today to 145 yen is partly attributableto the perception inside and outside Japan that the country hasfailed to fulfill its promise to expand domestic demand.    He told a Lower House budget committee in Parliament thatit was natural for other nations to think that Japan is notdoing enough because of the delay in the passage of the 1987/88budget.    The budget has been delayed by opposition boycotts ofParliament to protest government plans for a new sales tax. REUTER
Nakasone says major nations committed in Paris to stable dlr above Japanese vehicle exports fell 8.2 pct inFebruary from January to 530,066, the Japan AutomobileManufacturers Association said.    February exports fell 6.8 pct from a year earlier after a6.8 pct year-on-year rise in January, the first growth sinceJune 1986, when they rose 4.4 pct from a year earlier.    February exports included 361,285 cars, down 6.3 pct from ayear earlier, 165,770 trucks, down 8.6 pct, and 3,011 buses, up51.4 pct.    Exports to the U.S. Fell to 226,942 in February from259,272 a year earlier, while those to the European Communityrose to 141,095 from 121,050.    The EC figure included 63,387 vehicles to West Germany, upfrom 41,821, but exports to Britain fell to 20,554 from 28,536.    Shipments to South-east Asia fell to 33,957 from 41,960 andthose to the Middle East fell to 15,828 from 25,278.    Japan's motorcycle exports rose 18 pct from January to177,115 in February, but fell 25.9 pct from a year earlier, the12th consecutive year-on-year drop. REUTER
Miyazawa says major nations have intervened aggressively since dlr fell below U.S. roastings of green coffee in theweek ended March 21 were about 250,000 (60-kilo) bags,including that used for soluble production, compared with195,000 bags in the corresponding week of last year and about300,000 bags in the week ended March 14, George Gordon Patonand Co Inc reported.    It said cumulative roastings for calendar 1987 now total3,845,000 bags, compared with 4,070,000 bags by this time lastyear. Reuter
JAPAN ISOLATED, YEN RISES, WORLD FEELS CHEATED Japan is becoming dangerously isolatedagain as the U.S. And Europe feel they have been cheated byJapanese promises to switch from export to domestic-led growth,officials and businessmen from around the world said.    As the dollar today slipped to a record low below 145 yen,making Japanese exporters and holders of dollar investmentsgrit their teeth harder, Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa saidthere was a perception Japan had reneged on its promise.    The problem goes deep and centres on misunderstandings byboth sides over the key Maekawa report of April, last year.    The document was prepared by a private committee formed byPrime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone and led by former Bank ofJapan head Haruo Maekawa. It recommended that to stop frictiondue to its large trade surpluses, Japan must "make a historicaltransformation in its traditional policies on economicmanagement and the nation's lifestyle. There can be no furtherdevelopment for Japan without this transformation."    Americans and Europeans took the report to heart and havelooked in vain for clear signs of this historic change. But theJapanese remain doubtful about the short, or even medium termprospects of totally transforming their economic habits.    The bubble of frustration against what appears as Japaneseprevarication burst last week. The U.S. Said it intended toraise tariffs of as much as 300 mln dlrs on Japanese exports tothe U.S. On the grounds Japan had abrogated a bilateralsemiconductor pact.    British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher threatened toblock Japanese financial firms from London after the Japaneseplaced what the British say are restrictive conditions on a bidby British firm Cable and Wireless to join a domestictelecommunications joint venture.    On Friday, European currency dealers said European centralbanks, annoyed at restrictive Japanese trade practises, mightleave Japan alone to intervene to staunch the rise of the yen.    Eishiro Saito, head of top Japanese business groupKeidanren, spotted the dangers inherent in such contradictoryviews last November when he visited the European Community."Related to this matter of (trade) imbalance, the point that Ifound to be of great cause for alarm during this trip to Europewas the excessive degree of hope placed by the Europeans in theresults of the Maekawa report," he said.    "We explained that the process of restructuring the economyaway from its dependence on exports toward a balance betweendomestic and external demand...Would take time," Saito said.    Saito's words were ignored. In February, EC IndustrialPolicy Director Heinrich von Moltke came to Japan and said "Ionly know that your government, under the leadership ofMaekawa, points to restructuring your economy into a lessoutward looking, more inward looking one. It is the Maekawareport which has attracted the most attention in Europe."    And Europeans and Americans want quick action. "A far betteranswer than protectionism would be structural change within theJapanese economy, the kind suggested by the Maekawa report. Andwe hope to see changes occur in the near future," visitingChairman of General Motors Roger Smith said in March.    Such expectations are now ingrained, which was partly thefault of Nakasone, who heralded Maekawa's report as a sea ofchange in Japanese affairs, said U.S. Officials.    Months before the report was issued, U.S. And EC businessleaders met their Japanese colleagues to discuss the tradeproblem.    "We are more anxious than ever that the new approach of theMaekawa committee does lead to speedy and effective action,"said EC Industrial Union leader Lord Ray Pennock.    "The important implication of the Maekawa report is that itis finally looking to let Japanese enjoy the fruits of theirlabour," said Philip Caldwell, Senior Managing Director ofShearson Lehman Brothers.    Contents of the report were leaded well ahead of issuance.    Japanese officials say they are implementing the report asfast as they can, said a European ambassador who has travelledthe country asking about this issue.    He said People mentioned many things in line with thespirit of the report, including restructuring of the coal andsteel industries.    A major misunderstanding is that the private report wasgovernment policy. Europeans are confused about this,underlined by von Moltke's reference to the "leadership" of theMaekawa report. Even so, Japanese officials point to lastSeptember's government programme of new economic measures."Without endorsing the report as policy, officials point outthat the government has put its signature to a programmedesigned to implement the report," the ambassador said. REUTER
H.K. DEALERS SAY NAKASONE G-6 COMMENT TOO LATE Remarks by Japan's Prime MinisterYasuhiro Nakasone that last month's G-6 meeting agreed tostabilize the dollar above 150 yen have come too late toinfluence currency trading, dealers said.    After Nakasone's statement the dollar rose to 146.40/50 yenfrom an initial low of 144.20/40 and New York's Friday finishof 147.15/25. But the rebound was largely on short-covering,they said.    "I think (Nakasone's) desperate," said a U.S. Bank foreignexchange manager.    Nakasone told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliamentthat Japan and other industrialized nations committedthemselves in Paris last month to stabilize the dollar above150 yen.    Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told the same committeethat the six - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. AndWest Germany - had intervened aggressively since the dollarfell below 150 yen.    "His (Nakasone) remarks should have been made and shouldhave had a bigger influence when the dollar was still above 150yen," said P.S. Tam of Morgan Guaranty Trust.    Tam said the dollar has hit short-term chart targets  andis likely to rebound. But he warned of another dip to below 145yen.    Dealers said the worsening trade relations between the U.S.And Japan will continue to depress the dollar.    The trade issue has now become a political issue since theReagan Administration is facing uproar in Congress overth3pYgks in cutting the country's 169.8 billion dlr tradedeficit, they said. REUTER
 Miyazawa expects dollar to rebound soon, spokes Quebecor Inc <PQB.A>, the Canadianpublishing concern, is issuing a 60 mln dlr convertible bonddue May 14, 1997 bearing an indicated coupon of 5-3/4 to sixpct, said Merrill Lynch Capital Markets as lead manager.    The issue will be priced to have a conversion premium of 22to 25 pct, with final terms to be set on Monday, April 6. Thecompany's stock last traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange at19-3/8. The securities will be listed in Luxembourg and areavailable in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs.    Fees include a one pct combined management and underwritingand a one pct selling concession. REUTER
MIYAZAWA EXPECTS DOLLAR REBOUND SOON - SPOKESMAN Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawaexpects the dollar to rebound soon, a Ministry spokesman said.    He quoted Miyazawa as telling Japanese reporters that majorindustrial nations are aggressively intervening in currencymarkets worldwide to prevent a dollar free-fall.    The minister believes that market forces will push thedollar back up from its record low of 144.70 yen today,according to the spokesman.    Miyazawa told the Japanese reporters the U.S. Unit fellbecause Japanese investors sold dollars to hedge currency risksbefore the close of the 1986/87 fiscal year on March 31. REUTER
NO INTERVENTION, DOLLAR FIXED AT 1.8063 MARKS The Bundesbank did not intervene asthe dollar was fixed lower at 1.8063 marks after 1.8231 onFriday, dealers said.    Business calmed down after a hectic start, with Europeanoperators sidelined because of uncertainty about the short-termdirection of the dollar, dealers said. "At the moment, all theaction is taking place in New York and Tokyo," one said.    The U.S. Currency traded within a 145 basis point range inEurope, touching a low of 1.7940 and a high of 1.8085 marks.But it remained within a narrow 40 basis point span around1.8050 marks after the first hour of European trading.    Comments by Japanese officials and Bank of Japan dollarsupport had pushed it above 145 yen and 1.80 marks afterfalling as low as 144.50 and 1.7860 respectively in Tokyo. REUTER
G-6 WANTS TO HOLD DLR ABOVE 150 YEN - NAKASONE Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone saidthat Japan and other industrialized nations committedthemselves in Paris last month to stabilize the dollar above150 yen.    He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament thatthe six nations have taken measures, including marketintervention, to support the dollar above that level.    Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told the same committeethat the six - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. AndWest Germany - had intervened aggressively since the dollarfell below 150 yen.    Miyazawa said major nations are trying hard to stabilizeexchange rates.    Asked if there had been any change in the fundamentals ofeach nation since the February 22 Paris accord, he said he didnot think the fundamentals themselves had changedsubstantially.    But he said the market is sensitively looking at what ishappening in major nations. He did not elaborate.    Miyazawa added that it was difficult to say why there hasbeen such speculative dollar selling in the market. REUTER
MIYAZAWA EXPECTS DOLLAR REBOUND SOON - SPOKESMAN Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawaexpects the dollar to rebound soon, a Ministry spokesman said.    He quoted Miyazawa as telling Japanese reporters that majorindustrial nations are aggressively intervening in currencymarkets worldwide to prevent a dollar free-fall.    The minister believes that market forces will push thedollar back up from its record low of 144.70 yen today,according to the spokesman.    Miyazawa told the Japanese reporters the U.S. Unit fellbecause Japanese investors sold dollars to hedge currency risksbefore the close of the 1986/87 fiscal year on March 31. REUTER
SUMITA SAYS HE DOES NOT EXPECT FURTHER DOLLAR FALL Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumitasaid he does not expect the dollar to remain unstable and fallfurther.    He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament thatthe Bank of Japan would continue to cooperate closely withother major nations to stabilize exchange rates.    The central bank has been keeping extremely careful watchon exchange rate movements since last week, he said.    He said the dollar would not continue to fall because ofunderlying market concern about the rapid rise of the yen.    Sumita said the currency market has been reacting tooverseas statements and to trade tension between Japan and theU.S. over semiconductors.    The yen's tendency to rise will prevent Japan fromexpanding domestic demand and undertaking necessary economicrestructuring, he said. Reuter
DLR FALLS ON FEARS, MIYAZAWA SAYS Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa saidthat the dollar's drop today to 145 yen is partly attributableto the perception inside and outside Japan that the country hasfailed to fulfill its promise to expand domestic demand.    He told a Lower House budget committee in Parliament thatit was natural for other nations to think that Japan is notdoing enough because of the delay in the passage of the 1987/88budget.    The budget has been delayed by opposition boycotts ofParliament to protest government plans for a new sales tax. Reuter
U.S. BANKER PREDICTS FURTHER DOLLAR FALL THIS YEAR A leading U.S. Banker said the dollarwas likely to fall another five to 10 pct this year and animprovement in the huge American trade deficit would be onlytemporary at current world exchange rate levels.    Kurt Viermetz, worldwide treasurer of Morgan Guaranty TrustCo, told Arab currency traders meeting here that the steadydepreciation of the dollar had not gone far enough to rein inU.S. deficits on a lasting basis. Reuter
BRAZIL TEMPORARILY LEGALISES DLR PARALLEL MARKET Brazilian President Jose Sarneyannounced a move which temporarily legalises the purchase ofU.S. dollars in the parallel currency market, aimed atpromoting imports of foreign goods.    In a speech, Sarney justified his measure as a need to face"current well known difficulties to obtain foreign loans for thepurchase of goods."    The parallel market, although officially tolerated, istechnically illegal in Brazil. For the past year, the dollar inthe parallel market has sold at between 25 and 100 pct abovethe official rate.    Sarney's decision means Brazilian importers of machineryand industrial equipment can buy dollar currency in theparallel market without having to wait for an official orderfrom the Banco do Brasil's Foreign Trade Department (Cacex).    Sarney also announced measures to boost exports in aneffort to strengthen the country's trade balance and alleviatethe risk of a reduction of foreign loans for this sector of theeconomy.    The president authorised the National Foreign Trade Council(CONEX) to resume operating as the ruling body of Brazil'strade policy, with participation of the private sector.    The Council had been closed three years ago by the militarygovernment of former President Joao Figueiredo. Reuter
SARNEY TEMPORARILY LEGALISES DLR PARALLEL MARKET Brazilian President Jose Sarneyannounced a move which temporarily legalises the purchase ofU.S. Dollar currency in the parallel market, aimed at promotingimports of foreign goods.    In a speech, Sarney justified his measure as a need to face"current well known difficulties to obtain foreign loans for thepurchase of goods."    The parallel market, although tolerated, is technicallyillegal. For the past year, the dollar in the parallel marketis being sold at 25 to 100 pct above the official rate.    Sarney's decision means that Brazilian importers ofmachinery and industrial equipment can buy dollar currency inthe parallel market without having to wait for the issuing ofan official order from the Banco do Brasil's Foreign TradeDepartment (Cacex).    Sarney also announced measures to boost exports in aneffort to strengthen the country's trade balance and alleviatethe risk of a reduction of foreign loans for this sector of theeconomy.    The president authorised the National Foreign Trade Council(CONEX) to resume operating as the ruling body of Brazil'strade policy, with participation of the private sector.    The Council had been closed three years ago by the militarygovernment of former President Joao Figueiredo.    Tomorrow, Brazil was due to fulfill payment of 15 billiondollars in short range credit lines, but its economic officialshave suggested a 60-day extension in the deadline in order toseek a renegotiation with its creditors.    Sarney told members of the Council that for Brazil it is amust to recover its annual trade balance surplus to the 12billion dollars average recorded in 1984 and 1985, and whichdropped sharply last year to 8 billion dollars.    He attributed the poor performance of Brazil's tradebalance in 1986 to protectionist moves by industrialisedcountries, the fall in the prices of basic goods and the crisisfaced by several of Brazil's Third World trade partners. Reuter
MIYAZAWA SAYS DOLLAR BELOW 150 YEN IS COUNTER TO PARI Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said heregards a U.S. Dollar below 150 yen as counter to the agreementstruck by major nations in Paris last month.    He told the Upper House Budget Committee in Parliament thatJapan intervened in the market when the dollar went below 150yen, as it considered the dollar's fall below that levelcounter to the spirit of the Paris accord.    Commenting on current foreign exchange movements, Miyazawasaid Japan would watch developments for another couple of days.    Institutional investors appeared to have sold dollars tohedge currency risks ahead of the end of the financial yeartoday, Miyazawa said.    Behind the recent dollar fall lies the market perceptionthat major nations were not doing enough to implement theirpolicies under the Paris pact, he said, noting that passage ofJapan's 1987/88 budget has been delayed.    He said that now was the time for major nations to actunder the Paris accord. The U.S., West Germany, France,Switzerland and Britain have intervened on their own account toprop up the dollar, he said. This was a concerted action. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN BUYS DOLLARS AROUND 145.75 YEN - The combined assets of Taiwan's offshorebanking units (OBU) rose to 6.62 billion U.S. Dlrs atend-February from 6.28 billion in January and compared with7.12 billion in February 1986, the central bank said.    A bank official said the increase came mainly from growingOBU borrowings by Taiwanese operators from their Asiancounterparts.    He said the assets, held by 15 foreign and local banks,were mainly in U.S. Dollars, with the rest in certificates ofdeposit and bonds. About 90 pct of the assets came from Asiaand the rest from North America and Europe, he added. REUTER
BUNDESBANK HAS NOT INTERVENED TODAY, DEALERS The Bundesbank declined to comment onrumours in Tokyo that it was intervening heavily to support thedollar, but dealers here said they had not seen the Germancentral bank in the market all morning.    The dollar was quoted at around 1.8040 marks shortly aftermidday in nervous but quiet trading, up from its 1.7975/85opening.    Spreads against the mark remained around 10 basis points,with some banks quoting only five point spreads. Dealers saidspreads would widen and the dollar would move more sharply ifthe Bundesbank did intervene. REUTER
U.S. MAY DROP TARIFFS IF JAPAN OPENS - YEUTTER The U.S. Is willing to drop tariffs onJapanese electronic imports if Japan shows it will abide by anagreemement opening its markets to American goods, U.S. TradeRepresentative Clayton Yeutter said in a TV interview.    "But there has to be a clear indication that they arewilling to act," he said.    Yeutter said difficulties in the Japanese economy caused bythe U.S. Tariffs and the yen's rise against the dollar areproblems "they have brought on themselves."    The dollar fell to 40-year lows against the yen today.    "Certainly the movement of the yen is causing some economicturmoil in Japan," he said. "My only response is that we havegone through about five years with the dollar going in just theopposite direction. Although I can sympathise, it's occurredfor only a few weeks or months in Japan."    The tarriffs, announced on Friday by President Reagan, willaffect about 300 million dlrs worth of products, only a tinyfraction of Japan's total exports to the U.S.    Even so, Reagan's decision "doesn't give us any joy. Wedon't want to take retaliatory action here if we don't have to,"Yeutter said.    Yeutter said the meetings scheduled next month inWashington between Reagan and Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasonewill include "some difficult items on the agenda."    Japan has failed to implement two parts of a three-partsemiconductor agreement, Yeutter said.    Japan has stopped dumping chips in the U.S. But it hasfailed to open its domestic markets to U.S.-made chips and hasfailed to end predatory pricing in Third World countries,undercutting U.S. Products, he said. REUTER
Bank of Japan buys dollars around 146.30 yen, dea Australian annual broad money growth rose10.3 pct in February, unchanged from January, but down from thecorresponding February growth rate of 13.9 pct, the ReserveBank said.    February broad money growth was steady at 0.7 pct from theprevious month and unchanged from February last year.    Borrowings from the private sector by non-bank financialintermediaries rose by 8.8 pct in the February year fromJanuary's 9.5 pct rise, compared with a 13.6 pct increase inthe previous February year.    In February, borrowings from the private sector by non-bankfinancial intermediaries rose by 1.0 pct compared withJanuary's 0.2 pct increase and the previous February rise of1.7 pct.    At the end of February, broad money stood at 177.1 billiondlrs up from January's 175.84 billion and compared with theprevious February level of 160.60 billion.    The Reserve Bank last week reported a February M3 growthrate of 11.2 pct from January's 10.7 pct rise and a previousannual February increase of 14.0 pct. REUTER
Bank of Japan intervenes buying dollars at around 147.30 yen - Commerzbank AG <CBKG.F> managementboard chairman Walter Seipp said that from the presentviewpoint the bank must expect 1987 full operating profit to belower than in 1986.    In the first two months of the year, partial operatingprofit -- excluding trading on the bank's own account -declined, he said, without giving details.    The interest surplus fell 2.8 pct compared with 2/12ths of1986 results, while the commission surplus, because of thequiet stock exchange business, fell back still more strongly.By contrast the personnel and fixed asset expenses increased.    German banks do not report full operating profit. But Seippsaid last year the figure for the first time had topped onebillion marks for the parent bank, and the group result wasaround 50 pct higher than this.    Commenting on 1986, Seipp said, "we were able to raise thefull operating profit...Slightly above the record result of1985 because own account profits increased slightly."    He gave no concrete details but added that in January andFebruary, good own account trading profits meant that the dropin full operating earnings was more modest than that in thepartial operating figure.    The bank would, as a result, be more profit-oriented infuture, developing, for example, more into investment banking,keeping a tight rein on personnel costs and dampeningexpenditures on fixed assets.    Turning to 1986 results, Seipp said by year end there hadbeen a strong growth in business volume.    Over the year business volume rose by 9.9 pct to 93.2billion marks compared with 1985, Seipp added.    Group balance sheet volume rose by 8.0 pct to 148.15billion. It would have been around five billion marks higherstill if currency relationships had remained unchanged.    In the parent bank, the interest surplus rose nine pct inthe year, while the interest margin held roughly at 1985's 2.56pct despite pressure on credit rates.    The surplus on commission business, which had soared by aquarter in 1985, rose by 11.6 pct last year thanks almostexclusively to growth in securities commissions, Seipp said.    Personnel expenditure was up 11.9 pct last year, at morethan 1.5 billion marks. Fixed asset expenditure rose by 9.6 pctto more than 650 mln.    As a result, the parent bank partial operating profit roseby 3.2 pct to 752 mln marks.    Parent bank tax payment rose to 244 mln marks last yearfrom 233 mln in 1985.    Seipp said extraordinary earnings included a "hightwo-figure million" in profit from the sale of the bank's AEG AG<AEGG.F> shares to Daimler-Benz AG <DAIG.F> during the latter'smajority stake purchase booked last year.    The ability of the bank to write off depreciations incredit business against profits from securities trading andearnings on the sale of stakes had been utilised, as in prioryears, to its full extent.    Because of numerous insolvencies at home, by far thelargest part of the provisions were set aside for individualwrite-downs from domestic business. Abroad, the circle ofproblem debtor countries rose last year, although the ratio ofcredit exposure to provisions improved further.    Seipp said that because about half the group's exposure toproblem nations was in dollars, the bank had swapped intodollars individual provisions hitherto held primarily in marks.    "This means that no open currency positions exist any longeron the amount of the provision that is made against an actualdefault," he added.    Despite the increase in concern over debtor nations in thelast few weeks, he said, the international banking community isbetter armed than it was against payment problems.    All banks had significantly strengthened their capitalbase, most European banks had made considerable provisionsagainst bad debts while goverments and central banks werebetter prepared for unforseen difficulties.    He described debt-equity swaps as a very interesting newapproach to indebted nations' problems. There was a lot ofinterest in direct investment via an equity participation inLatin America, particularly from West German firms. Reuter
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN EARLY TOKYO AFTERNOON The Bank of Japan intervened in the marketin the early afternoon, buying dollars around 147.30 yen andcontinuing to buy them as high as 147.50 yen, dealers said.    The Bank intervened just after the dollar started rising onbuying by securities houses at around 147.05 yen, and hoped toaccelerate the dollar's advance, they said.    The dollar rose as high as 147.50 yen.  REUTER
CURRENCY INSTABILITY WILL NOT LAST - SUMITA Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita saidthe present foreign exchange market instability will not lastlong as there is caution in the market regarding the rapiddecline of the U.S. Unit.    He told reporters the major currency nations are determinedto continue their concerted intervention whenever necessary tostave off speculative dollar selling in line with theirFebruary 22 currency stability agreement in Paris.    Sumita also said he did not see the recent dollar drop asanything like a free-fall. REUTER
CURRENCY INSTABILITY WILL NOT LAST - SUMITA Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita saidthe present foreign exchange market instability will not lastlong as there is caution in the market regarding the rapiddecline of the U.S. Unit.    He told reporters the major currency nations are determinedto continue their concerted intervention whenever necessary tostave off speculative dollar selling in line with theirFebruary 22 currency stability agreement in Paris.    Sumita also said he did not see the recent dollar drop asanything like a free-fall. REUTER
TURKISH CENTRAL BANK SETS LIRA/DOLLAR, DM RATES The Turkish Central Bank set alira/dollar rate for April 2 of 780.00/783.90 to the dollar,down from the previous 777.00/780.89. The Bank also set alira/mark rate of 429.15/431.30 to the mark, up from theprevious 430.50/432.65. REUTER
FINLAND REVISES CURRENCY BASKET The Bank of Finland said it has revisedthe weightings in its currency basket with effect from today.Weightings  match the respective country's share in Finland'sforeign trade.    Weights in percentages compared with former weights.    Dollar  9.0 (8.8)    Sterling 14.3 (13.8)    Swedish crown 20.4 (20.6)    Norwegian crown 5.2 (5.2)    Danish crown 5.2 (5.3)    German mark 19.3 (19.6)REUTER^M
CURRENCY INTERVENTION TIMING CRUCIAL - ANALYSTS The dollar's recent decline, despitemassive central bank purchases, is a forceful reminder thatofficial intervention in the foreign exchanges can work only ifit is well-timed to coincide with shifts in market fundamentalsor sentiment, dealers and analysts said.    Central banks may succeed in slowing a trend, but, withoutaccompanying policy changes, they stand little chance ofreversing the direction of an ever-growing global market inwhich more than 200 billion dlrs is traded every day, thesources said.    "Timing and psychology are the key to successfulintervention," said Jim O'Neill, a financial markets economistwith Marine Midland Banks Inc. The importance of complementarychanges in economic fundamentals was underlined yesterday whena change in interest rates boosted the dollar, instantlyachieving what the central banks had tried in vain to do for aweek through open market intervention.    After Citibank raised its prime rate by a quarter-point to7-3/4 pct, the first change in the rate since last August, thedollar started to advance and reached a high in Tokyo of 147.50yen, up two yen from Tuesday's New York low.    By contrast, monetary authorities spearheaded by the Bankof Japan are estimated to have bought as much as 10 billiondlrs in the last 10 days of March but could not prevent thedollar from skidding through 150 yen and plumbing a 40-year lowMonday of 144.70 yen. Some experts worry the central banks havelost more than just a temporary battle to prop up the dollar.The market is wary of being caught wrong-footed by a centralbank foray, but is no longer mesmerized.    "They've lost their credibility. The market feels it cantake on the central banks and win," said Michael Snow, head oftreasury operations at Union Bank of Switzerland in New York.    The relative failure of recent intervention stands in sharpcontrast to the success that central banks scored when theyjoined forces to drive the dollar down following the September22, 1985, Plaza accord.    Then, however, central banks had an easy time of it,because the markets and the Treasuries of the major industrialpowers were agreed that the dollar needed to head lower toredress massive worldwide trade imbalances.    Now, there is no such consensus. The market is saying thatthe dollar must fall further because the U.S. trade deficit isshowing little sign of improvement, while Japan is resisting ina bid to protect its export industries.    For its part, the United States is apparently content tolet the dollar fall gradually further and is paying little morethan lip service to the February Paris agreement of the Groupof Five plus Canada to foster stability, dealers say.    Specifically, they said the Fed's dollar-buyingintervention has been half-hearted, designed more as apolitical gesture to Japan than to strike fear into themarkets. "It's been pro-forma intervention," said FrancoiseSoares-Kemp, chief corporate trader at Credit Lyonnais.    Because of this discord and the market's momentum for alower dollar, analysts said intervention looks doomed to fail.    "It's going to take a lot more than the central banks tohold the dollar (at these levels)," said Snow, who predictsanother 10 to 15 pct depreciation.    "There have to be structural changes that occur to make themarket stop selling dollars," added "Buying six billion dollarsin three weeks is not going to do it."    Late last decade during the presidency of Jimmy Carter,when the dollar was last under heavy speculative attack,central banks sometimes intervened to the tune of six billiondlrs in a single day but still failed to stop the dollarfalling to a record low of 1.70 marks, analysts said.    Snow said purchases on that scale now are unlikely. "Idon't think anybody has the stomach for it, because they sawthe futility of it in the seventies."    Indeed, because the market has grown in leaps and boundsince then, intervention on an even greater scale wouldprobably be needed to impress the market.    Trading volume in London, New York and Tokyo alone lastyear averaged nearly 188 billion dlrs a day, according to ajoint central bank study, about double the previous estimatemade just two years earlier by the Group of Thirty privateresearch group.    There are signs that central banks, too, realize thefutility of swimming against the tide.    Bank of Japan sources told Reuters in Tokyo earlier thisweek that they believed the limits of currency marketintervention are perhaps being reached and that other methodsfor bolstering the dollar, such as invoking currency swapagreements with other central banks, are being considered.    "In this era of financial liberalization, it's almostimpossible to control the flow of capital in and out of Japan,"one senior official in Tokyo said. Reuter
CHIRAC SAYS FRANCE RESOLVED TO SUPPORT CURRENCY PACT French Prime Minister Jacques Chiracsaid that on financial issues, the United States and France had"very close" views, and he said Treasury Secretary James Bakerwas determined to support the February 22 Paris agreement onstabilizing foreign exchange parities.    "I was very reassured by the determination of Mr. Baker tosupport this agreement," he said.    He described the dollar's sharp fall against the yen at thestart of the week as a "passing incident" and added, "Everyone isresolved to support the Paris accord."    Questioned about his plan to help the world's poorestcountries, Chirac said he did not envisage any large-scale debtwrite-offs.    "I don't think we can talk of write-offs - even the poorestcountries have not asked for that," he said.    Chirac said he wanted commercial banks to give third worldcountries better terms in rescheduling their debts, and for theInternational Monetary Fund to soften its conditions.    "One cannot pity the banks - they bear a lot ofresponsibility due to the encouragement they gave to thesecountries to take on debts. Now the banks are complaining but Ido not weep for them." Reuter
FURTHER DECLINES IN U.S. DEBT FUTURES POSSIBLE After an already steep fall in the pastweek, U.S. interest rate futures may be in for further declinesin the near term, financial analysts said.    However, some analysts said recent sharp losses in bondfutures have left the bond market somewhat oversold, and thecontracts on long-term debt could stage a recovery beforeresuming their decline.    Key to the near-term direction of futures will be thecourse of the dollar, they said.    "As the dollar goes, so goes the bond market," said DeanWitter analyst Karen Gibbs.    The recent decline in the dollar, which hit a 40-year lowagainst the Japanese yen Monday, was reversed Wednesday whenseveral large U.S. money center banks unexpectedly raised theirprime lending rates by a quarter point, to 7-3/4 pct.    "Even though the prime rate cut was good for the dollar,foreign exchange traders are not convinced the dollar declineis over," Gibbs said.    The dollar decline was key in recent weakness in debtfutures as it rekindled concern about a pickup in inflation.    Indeed, the falling dollar may have been a key topic at themeeting of the Federal Reserve's policy making arm, the FederalOpen Market Committee, this week, analysts said.    "To the Fed, the combination of a falling dollar, asteepening yield curve, and rising commodity prices looksuspiciously like the traces of expectations of acceleratinginflation," said Denis Karnosky, analyst at Carroll, McEnteeand McGinley Inc.    Such expectations could mean that "a shift in policy towardrestriction of bank reserves is likely to get very seriousconsideration," at the FOMC meeting, he said.    Any such restriction of reserves will not be a highlyvisible form of monetary tightening, Karnosky said.    Rather, the key to detecting a change will be found inseasonal and adjustment borrowing at the discount window, hesaid. Borrowings have held near a weekly average of 300 mlndlrs over the past several months, he said.    In the meantime, however, "the market looks a bitoversold," said Jim Wysoglad, analyst at Golden Gate Futures.    Wysoglad said a recovery from the oversold condition coulddrive June bonds to a high near 99 before falling back to testchart support near the recent low of 97-13/32.    Technician Leslie Keefe of Technical Data Corp of Bostonsaid that the key test for June bonds will be whether thenearby contract holds above chart support at 96-24/32.    "All previous selloffs since mid-November have stopped andbuyers have surfaced at that level," Keefe said.    If that level is broken, and the dollar continues todecline, Keefe said she expects the June bond contract todecline to test support between 92 and 93, the primary uptrendline dating back to 1984. Reuter
WORLD RECESSION UNLIKELY - DEUTSCHE'S HERRHAUSEN A world recession is unlikely thisyear as fiscal and monetary policy in most industrializedcountries is supporting the economy, Deutsche Bank AG <DBKG.F>management board joint spokesman Alfred Herrhausen said.    But growth rates will be smaller than last year, with 1.5to 2.5 pct likely in most industrialized countries, he told anews conference.    Herrhausen said he was confident private consumption wouldsupport economic growth in West Germany this year, with netincome increases turning into purchasing power as long asinflation did not revive.    Herrhausen said he did not expect interest rates to rise inWest Germany this year, but there was little room for furtherfalls. Rates in the U.S. were however rising, as evidenced bythe latest prime rate moves, but this rise would be moderate.    Herrhausen said he did not expect any major narrowing ofthe U.S. Trade and budget deficits in the next few months.    One success of the Paris agreement in February to fostercurrency stability was that U.S. Officials have stopped talkingdown the dollar, he noted.    The recent stability would last until markets decided totest the resolve of central banks, he said.    He noted that central banks had spent some 10 billion dlrsthis week to stabilize the dollar against the yen in the firstsuch test.    "A massive attack on the mark, which could come if we getbad news out of the U.S., Would require a much higherintervention amount, raising the danger of inflation," he said.    Turning to the international debt problem, Herrhausen saidBrazil's unilateral debt moratorium had surprised banks.    But the move showed that a real solution to debt problemswas only possible with the involvement of all parties. Reuter
JAPAN ASKS BANKS TO MODERATE DOLLAR SALES - JIJI The Finance Ministry has asked commercialbanks to moderate their dollar sales, JiJi News Agencyreported, quoting financial sources.    Finance Ministry officials were unavailable for comment.The report also could not be confirmed by several bank dealers.    Earlier, Japanese trust banking sources said the Ministryhad asked them to moderate their dollar sales.    A Ministry official said earlier this week the ministry hadrecently surveyed currency transactions by investors, butdeclined to say whether this aimed at reducing their dollarsales. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES JUST AFTER TOKYO OPENING The Bank of Japan intervened just afterthe Tokyo market opened, buying dollars at around 147.65 yen,dealers said.    They were unsure of the amount of the central bank'spurchasing, but it seemed to prevent the dollar from weakeningagainst the yen amid bearish sentiment for the U.S. Currency,they said.    The dollar opened at 147.65 yen against 147.20/30 in NewYork and 146.90 at the close here yesterday. REUTER
TURKISH CENTRAL BANK SETS LIRA/DOLLAR, DM RATES Turkey's Central Bank set a lira/dollarrate for April 3 of 782.50/786.41 to the dollar, down from780.00/783.90. It set a lira/D-mark rate of 428.30/430.44 tothe mark, up from 429.15/431.30. REUTER
WHITE HOUSE DISAVOWS YEUTTER COMMENTS ON DOLLAR White House spokesman MarlinFitzwater said that comments made in congressional testimony byTrade Representative Clayton Yeutter do not reflect thegovernment's position.    Yeutter was questioned about the dollar during testimony tothe Senate Finance Committee.     Fitzwater said in a statement Yeutter's comments were inresponse to a hypothetical question "and do not reflect thegovernment's position."    "I want to emphasize that only the president and thesecretray of the treasury are authorized to comment on thedollar," the spokesman said.    Yeutter, asked whether the U.S. trade deficit would improvemore if the value of the dollar dropped further, replied, "Thatshould be a mathematical truism." But he added that markets aremore complicated than that.    He said he expected the current decline in the dollar toshow up soon in the decline in the value of imports. Reuter
NO INTERVENTION, DOLLAR FIXED AT 1.8162 MARKS The Bundesbank did not intervene asthe dollar was fixed lower at 1.8162 marks after 1.8270yesterday, dealers said.    The dollar firmed slightly from its opening 1.8135/45 marksin very quiet pre-weekend trading and dealers said theyexpected business to remain thin this afternoon.    "Trading is at an absolute nil, nobody wants to get involvedahead of next week's meetings," one dealer with a U.S. Banksaid, referring to the Group of Seven industrial nations andthe International Monetary Fund meetings in Washington.    Dealers saw the dollar staying at current levels butpossibly rising above 1.83 marks on any supporting remarksemerging from the meetings. "But the dollar's medium-termdirection is soft," one dealer said.    The dollar could well come under renewed pressure after theinternational forums as attention returned to the U.S. And theU.K.'s trade dispute with Japan, dealers said.    Cross currency trading was also subdued though sterling'srise above 1.60 dlrs helped it to firm against the mark. It wasfixed higher at 2.924 marks after yesterday's 2.910.    The pound was seen staying between 2.90 and 2.93 marks forthe next days, dealers said.    Eurodollar deposit rates were steady from this morning,with six month funds unchanged at midpoint 6-11/16 pct. Sixmonth euromarks stayed at midpoint 3-7/8 pct.    The Swiss franc firmed to 119.86 marks per 100 at the fixfrom 119.71 yesterday and the yen rose to 1.244 marks per 100from 1.243.    The French franc was little changed at 30.050 marks per 100after 30.055 yesterday. REUTER
JAPAN ASKS BANKS TO CUT DOLLAR SALES - DEALERS The Finance Ministry has asked Japanesecommercial banks to moderate their dollar sales, bank dealerssaid.    They said the Ministry had telephoned city and long-termbanks earlier this week to make the request.    One dealer said this was the first time the Ministry hadmade such a request to commercial banks.    Finance Ministry officials were unavailable for immediatecomment. Dealers said the Ministry has already askedinstitutional investors to reduce their sales of the dollar.   REUTER
TURKISH CENTRAL BANK SETS LIRA/DOLLAR, DM RATES Turkey's Central Bank set a lira/dollarrate for April 6 of 781.95/785.86 to the dollar, up from782.50/786.41. It set a lira/D-mark rate of 430.15/432.30 tothe mark, down from 428.30/430.44. REUTER
JAPAN CENTRAL BANK INTERVENES IN TOKYO AFTERNOON The Bank of Japan intervened in earlyafternoon Tokyo trading to support the dollar against activeselling by institutional investors and speculative selling byoverseas operators, dealers said.    The central bank had also bought dollars against the yen inmorning trade.    The dollar traded around 145.20/30 yen when trading beganin the afternoon here and weakened only slightly, the dealerssaid. REUTER
NO INTERVENTION, DOLLAR FIXED AT 1.8218 MARKS The Bundesbank did not intervene asthe dollar was fixed lower at 1.8218 marks after 1.8243yesterday, dealers said.    Dealers said dollar trading was very quiet over theEuropean morning, with operators made wary by today's meetingof the Group of Five finance ministers and central bank chiefsahead of the full IMF/World Bank session in Washington.    It was undermined by remarks from U.S. Council of EconomicAdvisers Chairman Beryl Sprinkel who told Iowa bankers the U.S.Had no objective regarding the value of the dollar.    Sprinkel also called the reference to stabilizing exchangerates at about current levels, made at the Paris meeting onFebruary 22, a "vague statement," casting doubt on operators'assumptions that a secret target level had been set.    Sprinkel added that if West Germany and Japan made progressto stimulate their economies as the Paris agreement envisaged,"there would not be the necessity of significant declines in thedollar."    One dealer for a U.S.-based bank noted the dollar tendedeasier after the remarks. "They were obviously regarded as beingnegative. And if the market starts regarding anything thatcomes out negatively then it means that the underlyingsentiment is negative," he said.    Some early selling pressure softened the dollar'sundertone.    Most operators overlooked intervention by the Bank of Japanto support the dollar against selling in favour of the yen byinstitutional investors and overseas operators, dealers said.    After the strong focus on the dollar/yen rate in recentweeks up to the end of the Japanese financial year on March 31,interest and activity was likely to switch, dealers said.    "We can start to look at a point in time where the interestshifts away from dollar/yen and more into dollar/mark and theother European currencies," the U.S. Bank dealer said.    Despite the softer undertone, traders would remain wary oftaking significant new positions during the Washingtonmeetings, dealers said. Aside from the G-5 session today,Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl is due to meet the GermanAffairs group on international monetary issues later.    The mark gained some strength from news the Bundesbank seta new securities repurchase tender to add money marketliquidity at a fixed 3.80 pct, unchanged from those over thelast several weeks. Some expectation had been growing that itmight cut the rate or move to a minimum interest rate tender,signalling a desire for a slight easing in credit policy.    Bundesbank central bank council member Lothar Mueller saidthe Bundesbank had not given up its focus on money supply. Amonetary policy which took into account exchange rates andcapital flows could not be confused with an exchange-rateoriented policy, he said, contradicting some growing sentiment.    Sterling eased a touch to 2.950 marks at the fixing from2.957. The yen's unabated strength, despite the intervention,brought it up to 1.2555 marks per 100 from yesterday's 1.2480.    The Swiss franc rose to a fix of 120.515 marks per 100 from120.180. The French franc eased to 30.055 marks per 100 after30.060, Belgian franc was little changed at 4.829 marks per100. REUTER
JAPAN CENTRAL BANK INTERVENES IN TOKYO AFTERNOON The Bank of Japan intervened in earlyafternoon Tokyo trading to support the dollar against activeselling by institutional investors and speculative selling byoverseas operators, dealers said.    The central bank had also bought dollars against the yen inmorning trade.    The dollar traded around 145.20/30 yen when trading beganin the afternoon here and weakened only slightly, the dealerssaid. REUTER
EGYPTIAN CENTRAL BANK DOLLAR RATE UNCHANGED Egypt's Central Bak left the dollar ratefor Commercial banks for April 8 unchanged at 1.353/67 pounds. REUTER
VOLCKER SAYS FURTHER SIZEABLE DECLINE IN DOLLAR COULD BE COUNTERPR Turnover on the London InternationalFinancial Futures Exchange (LIFFE) rose to 1.16 mln contractsin March, up from 517,746 a year earlier, figures issued by theInternational Commodities Clearing House (ICCH) show.    Turnover for the whole of the first quarter was 2.87 mlncontracts against 1.52 mln in the same period last year.    The biggest increases in March were seen for gilt options,long gilt futures and short sterling, the ICCH figures show.    Key figures given by the ICCH were as follows-                    March 87     March 86    Gilt options      92,182       19,046    Stg/dlr options    2,640       14,375    FTSE              25,741       10,444    Short sterling   147,863       72,118    20-year gilt     700,102      172,564    Eurodollars      107,988       71,671    T-bonds           72,319      136,749 Reuter
VOLCKER WARNS AGAINST SIZEABLE DLR DECLINE Federal Reserve Board Chairman PaulVolcker said a further large drop in the value of the dollarcould be counterproductive for world economic growth.    Testifying before the Senate Banking Committee, Volckersaid that Europe and Japan were slowing exports and that growthin those countries was also decreasing.    "In that kind of situation, further sizeable depreciationof the dollar could well be counterproductive," he said.    Domestic expansion in foreign industrial countries has notbeen enough to offset the effects of slower exports, Volckersaid.    On the value of the dollar, Volcker said he could not saywhether it should be higher or lower to restore balance intrade.    "What we do know is that a substantial exchange rateadjustment has already been made," he said.    "That adjustment should be large enough, in a context of agrowing world economy and fiscal restraint in the UnitedStates, to support the widespread expectations of a narrowingin the real trade deficit in the period ahead," he said.    Volcker said U.S. exports were now growing substantiallywhile import growth should slow.    Volcker said that to improve the trade deficit with aminimum of inflationary pressure, the United States would haveto slow its spending growth.    It would also have to achieve a better balance betweeninvestment and domestic savings if it wants to be able todispense with foreign capital.    "The constructive way to work in the needed direction wouldbe to reduce our budget deficit, year by year, paving the wayfor improvements in our trade accounts," he said.    Relying on depreciation of the dollar alone would riskrenewed inflation, he said. Reuter
VOLCKER SEES DOLLAR AS FACTOR IN MONETARY POLICY Federal Reserve Board Chairman PaulVolcker said the performance of the dollar in exchange marketscould be a factor in the U.S. central bank's decisions onmonetary policy.    "The performance of the dollar in the exchange market mightbecome a factor bearing on our provision of reserves," Volckersaid in testimony to the Senate Banking Committee.    He said that fiscal policy changes in the United States,Germany and Japan would be more important that intervention toinstill confidence in current exchange rate levels.                       Reuter
CURRENCY FUTURES TO KEY OFF G-5, G-7 MEETINGS News of an agreement among G-5 and G-7finance ministers meeting in Washington this week will be keyto the direction of currency futures at the InternationalMonetary Market, but any such agreement will need to go beyondthe Paris accord to stem the recent rise in futures, financialanalysts said.    "If they (the finance ministers) give the market somethingreally new to look at -- that is, some package that goes beyondthe Paris agreement -- you could have a real boost in thedollar," said Shearson Lehman Brothers analyst Anne Mills.    On the other hand, "anything neutral would tend to bebearish for the dollar," Mills said.    Traders and analysts agree a simple reaffirmation of theParis accord will not be enough to halt the decline in thedollar, nor will central bank intervention.    "A lot of people are looking for a reason to buy currenciesand sell the dollar," said one trader for a large retail firmon the floor of the IMM.    "If there is no concrete resolution, they will be lookingto sell the dollar, possibly down to the 1.80 mark level," hesaid.    Technically, most currency futures are poised for anotherrise, said Smith Barney Harris Upham analyst Craig Sloane.    Sloane noted that June yen futures set a new contract highon Tuesday and closed at its best level ever, while Junesterling set a new contract high on Monday.    "Everything seems to be coming to a head right now and youdon't need much to get things rolling," Sloane said.    In particular, the June Canadian dollar, for which Sloanerecently put out a buy recommendation, has hovered in a rangebetween 0.7600 and 0.7660 in recent weeks, forming a triangleon the charts from which it may soon break out on the upside.    A close above the contract high of 0.7665 would signal abreakout, Sloane said, and would likely mean the nearbyCanadian dollar contract would extend its advance to near the0.7800 level. June Canadian dollar closed at 0.7656 Tuesday.    Mills noted, however, that interest rate differentialsbetween Canadian securities and U.S. securities have narroweddramatically recently, with yields on 10-year Canadian bondsonly about 80 basis points above U.S. 10-year notes.    What has helped the Canadian currency, she noted, is anincreasing proportion of foreign funds flowing into theCanadian equity market, particularly from Japanese investors.    Other analysts, however, said currency futures may be nearthe top of their long-term rally.    "Something will be done at the (G-5 and G-7) meeting tocalm people," said David Horner of Merrill Lynch Economics.    The Paris accord has pretty much fixed where major Europeancurrencies will trade, Horner said.    But sterling futures may still make another run for newhighs, up to 1.6300 to 1.6500 dlr in the June contract, on thepositive atmosphere that will prevail before British electionsand possibly another interest rate cut, Horner said. The JuneBritish pound closed at 1.6080 on Tuesday.    Horner said that new boundaries for the trading range ofthe yen are likely to come out of the G-5 and G-7 meetings.    The most likely range will be a bottom for the dollarbetween 140 to 142 yen per dollar and a top near 150 to 152yen, Horner said. In yen futures, the bottom of the dollar'srange would be equivalent to 0.007100 to 0.007150 in the Junecontract. June yen closed at 0.006913 on Tuesday.    If such a range does emerge from the meetings, "we willhave one more rally in the yen," Horner said. Reuter
POEHL WARNS AGAINST FURTHER DOLLAR FALL Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehlsaid a weaker dollar would be risky and a further appreciationof the mark would damage prospects for sustained West Germaneconomic growth.    In a speech to the Institute of Contempory German Affairshere, Poehl said "It would be an extremely risky policy to aimfor a further substantial decline in the value of the dollar tocorrect the trade deficit."    He said the United States could face a vicious circle ofdepreciation, inflation and more depreciation if it took thatroute.    Poehl noted West Germany had already taken steps to meetU.S. Demands for greater stimulation of its domestic economy,accelerating tax cuts, cutting interest rates and toleratingabove-target money supply growth.    He said he would have been happy to have brought forwardfive billion marks of tax cuts now planned for January 1988 tothe beginning of this year, but he said the government facedpolitical constraints getting such measures through the upperhouse of the West German parliament.    But there were also limits to the impact West Germany couldaccept on exports from a rising mark, he said.    Poehl said West Germany relied on exports for aboutone-third of its gross national product, so a substantialerosion of export markets could not be offset by increasingdemand at home.    "A further appreciation of the mark could even be anobstacle to further growth," he said.    Poehl said the Bundesbank had tolerated rapid money supplygrowth last year because the country enjoyed low inflation andbecause external factors, including low oil prices andfavourable terms of trade, had given some extra leeway.    But Poehl said West Germany now faced a difficult dilemmaover monetary policy.    The underlying rate of inflation was now two pct, not thereported negative inflation rates last year, and West Germanywas affected more than before by exchange rate developments.    "For the time being, we will have to focus our policy moreon the external side, and we can live with a more expansionarymoney supply. But we must be very careful," he said.    He said he shared some of the U.S. Concern about Japan'strade surpluses, which affected European countries as well asthe United States.    Poehl welcomed the so-called Louvre accord of monetaryofficials of major industrialized countries, saying theimportance of the February 22 agreement to stabilize exchangerates had been underestimated.    All partners had agreed that the dollar was at about theright level, and that further changes would damage growth, hesaid.    "This was a remarkable change in attitude, especially on thepart of our American colleagues," he said.    But he said there was still a danger that the correction ofthe dollar's value could overshoot. REUTER
Bank of Japan buys dollars shortly after opening at around 145.30 yen -- The Bank of Japan bought a small amount ofdollars shortly after the opening at around 145.30 yen, dealerssaid.    The central bank intervened as a medium-sized trading housesold dollars, putting pressure on the U.S. Currency, they said.    The dollar was also supported by a major electricalconsumer goods company, which was a speculative dollar buyer ataround 145.25 yen, they added.    The dollar opened at 145.33 yen against 145.60/70 in NewYork and 145.25 at the close here yesterday. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES SOON AFTER TOKYO OPENING The Bank of Japan bought a small amount ofdollars shortly after the opening at around 145.30 yen, dealerssaid.    The central bank intervened as a medium-sized trading housesold dollars, putting pressure on the U.S. Currency, they said.    The dollar was also supported by a major electricalconsumer goods company, which was a speculative dollar buyer ataround 145.25 yen, they added.    The dollar opened at 145.33 yen against 145.60/70 in NewYork and 145.25 at the close here yesterday. REUTER
POEHL WARNS AGAINST FURTHER DOLLAR FALL Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehlsaid a weaker dollar would be risky and a further appreciationof the mark would damage prospects for sustained West Germaneconomic growth.    In a speech to the Institute of Contempory German Affairshere, Poehl said "It would be an extremely risky policy to aimfor a further substantial decline in the value of the dollar tocorrect the trade deficit."    He said the United States could face a vicious circle ofdepreciation, inflation and more depreciation if it took thatroute.    Poehl noted West Germany had already taken steps to meetU.S. Demands for greater stimulation of its domestic economy,accelerating tax cuts, cutting interest rates and toleratingabove-target money supply growth.    He said he would have been happy to have brought forwardfive billion marks of tax cuts now planned for January 1988 tothe beginning of this year, but he said the government facedpolitical constraints getting such measures through the upperhouse of the West German parliament.    But there were also limits to the impact West Germany couldaccept on exports from a rising mark, he said.    Poehl said West Germany relied on exports for aboutone-third of its gross national product, so a substantialerosion of export markets could not be offset by increasingdemand at home.    "A further appreciation of the mark could even be anobstacle to further growth," he said.    Poehl said the Bundesbank had tolerated rapid money supplygrowth last year because the country enjoyed low inflation andbecause external factors, including low oil prices andfavourable terms of trade, had given some extra leeway.    But Poehl said West Germany now faced a difficult dilemmaover monetary policy.    The underlying rate of inflation was now two pct, not thereported negative inflation rates last year, and West Germanywas affected more than before by exchange rate developments.    "For the time being, we will have to focus our policy moreon the external side, and we can live with a more expansionarymoney supply. But we must be very careful," he said.    He said he shared some of the U.S. Concern about Japan'strade surpluses, which affected European countries as well asthe United States.    Poehl welcomed the so-called Louvre accord of monetaryofficials of major industrialized countries, saying theimportance of the February 22 agreement to stabilize exchangerates had been underestimated.    All partners had agreed that the dollar was at about theright level, and that further changes would damage growth, hesaid.    "This was a remarkable change in attitude, especially on thepart of our American colleagues," he said.    But he said there was still a danger that the correction ofthe dollar's value could overshoot. REUTER
J.P. MORGAN<JPM> SAYS DLR MAY PREVENT FED EASING The relatively high level of real U.S.interest rates suggests that there is scope for furtherdeclines in money market rates, but the Federal Reserve isunlikely to promote such a drop as long as the dollar remainsvolatile, said J.P. Morgan and Co Inc chairman Lewis Preston.    He said in response to a reporter's question after thebank's annual meeting that money market rates could declinefurther but, "I don't think the Fed is going to encourage thatas long as the exchange markets are as volatile as they are."    On the other hand, he said that, barring a collapse of thedollar, he did not see rates going much higher.    He said that Morgan's recent rise in its prime lending ratewas "purely a reflection of an increase in a whole spectrum ofrates."    Preston reiterated earlier company forecasts that the U.S.economy should show roughly 2.5 to three pct real growth thisyear.    He also said that as a consequence of the dollar's declineand oil price rises, inflation would rise "moderately" to a 3.5to four pct rate in 1987. Reuter
BANK OF JAPAN BUYS DOLLARS IN TOKYO, DEALERS SAY The Bank of Japan bought a modest amountof dollars at around 145.10 yen just after the market hereopened, dealers said.    Just before the opening, the dollar dropped swiftly asspeculators concluded the Group of Seven (G-7) comminuiqueissued in Washington contained nothing basically new, theysaid. It fell about a half yen, to around 145.    The G-7 reaffirmed that their currencies around currentlevels reflect economic fundamentals.    One dealer said the Bank of Japan probably intervened inAustralia before the opening here, but could not confirm this. REUTER
EUROPEAN MARKETS REACT QUIETLY TO G-7 COMMUNIQUE European currency markets reacted quietlyto the G-7 communique, with comments from bankers and dealersranging from disappointment that it was not more concrete tosurprise that the markets should have expected so much.    The dollar opened lower against virtually all currenciesand traded in a narrow range after the communique, whichreaffirmed support for the Paris accord on currencystabilisation but contained no moves to strengthen it.    Frankfurt and Zurich dealers saw the dollar staying broadlyentrenched in its current trading range. REUTER
EUROPEAN MARKETS REACT QUIETLY TO G-7 COMMUNIQUE European currency markets reacted quietlyto the G-7 communique, with comments from bankers and dealersranging from disappointment that it was not more concrete tosurprise that the markets should have expected so much.    The dollar opened lower against virtually all currenciesand traded in a narrow range after the communique, whichreaffirmed support for the Paris accord on currencystabilisation but contained no moves to strengthen it.    Dealers in Frankfurt and Zurich saw the dollar remainingbroadly entrenched in its current trading range.    "The dollar is likely to stay within a range of 1.80 to 1.84marks," said Gisela Steinhaeuser, senior dealer at Chase BankAG. She said there was some resistance to further climbs.    However, she said the dollar could break out of the rangewith major surprises such as a worse-than-expected U.S.Merchandise trade deficit, due next Tuesday.    Theodor Stadelmann, dealer with Bank Julius Baer and Co Ltdin Zurich, said he expects the dollar to hold steady againstthe mark and Swiss franc but to weaken further against the yen,possibly to 140 yen.    A Milan banker shared Stadelmann's view, saying he expectsa dollar-yen range of 140-150 in the short term.    London traders said the G-7 communique failed to curbunderlying bearishness toward the dollar but this negativesentiment was not yet strong enough to tempt interbankoperators to test the downside.    Concern that finance ministers and officials still inWashington could issue more concrete statements in favour ofcurrency stabilisation kept players sidelined, along withworries about provoking fresh central bank intervention in thelong term, the traders said.    Most Paris dealers expressed disappointment at thecommunique, saying nothing has changed to reverse the dollar'sdownward trend.    Traders in several centres said the market would look forfresh opportunities to test the willingness of central banks todefend current ranges, which the communique said were "broadlyconsistent with economic fundamentals and the basic policyintentions outlined at the Louvre meeting."    Dave Jouhin, senior dealer at Midland Bank in London, said"They're going to put somebody's resolve to the test soon." TheU.S. February trade data may provide the trigger, dealers said.    However, some dealers said London-based operators would beunlikely to open major positions next week ahead of the longEaster weekend. They saw near-term technical support at 1.825marks and 145 yen and resistance about 1.83 marks and 146 yen.    Chase Bank's Steinhaeuser and other Frankfurt dealers saidthe G-7 communique guaranteed a relatively calm and stablemarket for the foreseeable future compared with the extremevolatility seen in the first few months of this year.    One dealer at a German bank said the wording of thecommunique made clear the leading nations did not want afurther dollar drop, and this was supporting the dollar.    The German dealer saw the dollar gradually appreciating to1.87 marks, broadly seen as its upper limit within the Louvreaccord's supposed currency target range.    A Swiss bank economist said he believed the markets wereready for a period of "mainly sideways movement."    But Milan dealers were sceptical about the communiquecontributing to greater stability.    "Nothing has changed substantially to give the dollar a bigboost," said one dealer, while another Italian banker said heexpects the dollar to trade between 1.77 and 1.87 German marksin the next three months. Reuter
U.S. SAID TO VIEW G-7 MEETING AS MAJOR SUCCESS The United States, which has longsought Japanese action to stimulate its economy, appears to besatisfied Tokyo's latest package is a major development andallows leading industrial nations to reaffirm their agreementto stabilize currencies.    Monetary sources said they believed that U.S. TreasurySecretary James Baker considered Tokyo's package, announcedyesterday, to be a major stimulation of the Japanese economy.    But yesterday's statement by seven leading industrialpowers endorses the yen's rise from around 153 to the dollar,the level at the February 22 Paris Accord, to about 145 today.    And the initial reaction of currency markets in the FarEast demonstrates that financial markets are unconvinced thatcurrencies yet reflect economic fundamentals, even though thecountries appear to do so. The yen sank below 145 at one pointdespite intervention by the Bank of Japan.    Kiichi Miyazawa, Japan's Finance Minister, said themovement since Paris was consistent with currency tradingranges the nations agreed to defend in the February talks.    "I would say that what has happened (to the yen) in the pastseveral weeks was not outside the range we agreed to in thediscussions in Paris," Miyazawa said yesterday.    The supplementary budget worth about 34.48 billion dlrs wasannounced by the ruling Liberal Democratic Party on the eve ofMiyazawa's departure for Washington, to attend yesterday'smeetings of leading industrial nations.    In a strongly worded statement terming the Japanese action"extraordinary and urgent", the meeting reaffirmed the ParisAccord by noting that current exchange rates are within rangesbroadly consistent with fundamentals, or economic reality.    The Group of Seven -- the United States, Japan, WestGermany, France, Britain, Italy and Canada -- thereforerepeated their willingness to continue close cooperation tofoster exchange rate stability.    The cooperation agreement has resulted in concerted centralbank intervention of 8 billion to 9 billion dlrs to halt thedollar's fall. While relatively unsuccessful, the scale ofintervention between so many nations is unprecedented in recentyears. Monetary sources also said they understood thatSecretary Baker considered the meeting to be extremelysuccessful in the light of the Japanese announcement.    They also said there was a growing feeling among thefinance ministers and central bankers that cooperation overmedium-term policies has replaced the bickering over short-termdifferences in past meetings.    West Germany, whose currency has not risen anything likethe yen since the Paris Agreement, appears from the face ofyesterday's statement to have won acceptance from othercountries that its exchange rate is acceptable.    Bonn's finance minister Gerhard Stoltenberg argues thatmajor currency shifts needed to remedy the huge imbalancebetween West Germany and Japan's trade surpluses and America'strade deficit have already taken place.    No mention was made, however, of the U.S. commitment to cutthe budget deficit even though it is implied in thereafffirmation of Paris.    European nations and Japan believe deficit cuts areessential to curbing the record U.S. trade shortfall thatreached nearly 170 billion dlrs last year.    A similar argument was made on Capitol Hill earlier thisweek by Federal Reserve Board chairman Paul Volcker. A furthersharp fall to redress trade imbalances would "clearly posesubstantial risks of renewed inflationary momentum and couldundermine confidence in future financial stability," he said.    Volcker warned a further dollar fall might force thepolitically independent Fed to drive up interest rates.    Monetary sources said that, privately, West Germanywelcomed the rise in the yen against the dollar while its owncurrency remained relatively stable against the U.S. unit.    Bonn and other European nations worry that once the weakdollar blunts Tokyo's export drive to the United States, theJapanese monolith will concentrate on European markets.    The ministers, meanwhile, also continued talks on makingtheir policy coordination more binding and one, CanadianFinance Minister Michael Wilson, said good progress was made.    Wilson said they will meet before the June Economic Summitto prepare a report for the leaders of the seven nations.    The United States and France, backed by the InternationalMonetary Fund, want the seven to agree on ranges or "norms" for alimited number of economic objectives such as growth,inflation, monetary conditions, trade balances and currentaccount balances.    Sharp deviations from these guidelines would result inconsultations between the countries on whether correctiveaction should be required.    But the inclusion of currencies as one of the objectiveshas Bonn and London worried, monetary sources say, because itimplies Washington is moving in the direction of target zones.    The sources said the Reagan administration unsuccessfullysounded out its allies on a system of target zones to limitcurrency fluctuations just before the February meeting.    The concept is a much more rigid one than the secret rangesof the Paris Accord and would mark a sharp departure from therelatively free currency markets of recent years. Reuter
STOLTENBERG NOT SURPRISED BY DOLLAR REACTION West German Finance Minister GerhardStoltenberg said he was not surprised by the overnight declineof the dollar in foreign exchange markets.    Speaking briefly with reporters before entering a meetingof the International Monetary Fund he said, "These minormovements don't really affect us."    The dollar declined in the initial reaction to a statementby the Group of Seven industrial countries reaffirming theirParis agreement in February to maintain their currencies aroundcurrent levels. Reuter
DOLLAR ENDS LOWER IN LACKLUSTRE FRANKFURT The dollar drifted down to end onepfennig lower after a lacklustre session, held in limits by thelack of concrete news from the Group of Seven meeting andcomments on the edge of the Washington IMF/World Bank meeting.    Dealers said the communique early in the European morningfrom the G-7 meeting contained no significant new factors andalthough the dollar dipped it generally resisted furtherattempts to push it lower through the day.    The U.S. Currency ended at 1.8270/80 marks, belowyesterday's last 1.8365/75.    Koch said the assessment of the dollar's direction wasbased on a global view, with operators paying most attention tocomments by finance officials to see how closely they statedadherence to international agreements such as those set at thePlaza Hotel in 1985 and in Paris on February 22.    Koch described the wording of the communique from the G-7as "soft as wax."    Bundebank vice-president Helmut Schlesinger told Reuters ina telephone interview that the German central bank sees nocurrent reason to change monetary course at present.    Schlesinger was responding to questions following remarksyesterday by Bundesbank board member Claus Koehler and WestBerlin state central bank president Dieter Hiss, which dealerssaid revived some speculation that German interest rate cutsmay be under consideration.    German call money was slightly softer today, at around 3.70pct after 3.80 yesterday.    Some dealers said rates on new liquidity injections addedvia Bundesbank securities repurchase agreements may be cut nextweek. Hopes of a cut were dashed on Tuesday with an allocationat an unchanged 3.80 pct.    But speaking of the pact tender rate next week, Schlesingersaid, "since the central bank council gives its opinion on thistheme only every 14 days, this is hardly probable."    Euromark rates scarcely responded to the central bankerscomments, with six months funds ending unaltered at around3-7/8 pct. Eurodollars for the same maturity rose a fractional1/16 pct from yesterday to around 6-11/16 pct.    Sterling dipped to end at 2.952/956 marks after 2.960/965last night. The Swiss franc firmed slightly to 120.30/45 marksper 100 from 120.25/40, with the yen soaring however to1.2570/90 marks per 100 from 1.2515/35 yesterday.    EMS currencies saw the French franc end unchanged from lastnight at 30.03/06 marks per 100, with the Belgian franc easinghowever to 4.829/831 marks per 100 from 4.831/833. REUTER
FED BUYING DOLLARS FOR YEN IN OPEN MARKET, NEW YORK DEA Lloyd's of London has offered to meetpart of the 235 mln stg in claims that investors in PCWUnderwriting Agencies face due to fraud and mismanagement,chairman Peter Miller said at a press conference.    Miller urged 3,000 PCW members to accept the offer so thatthe five-year-old affair could be closed.    The members have until May 30 to accept the offer,involving a 103 mln stg payment by Lloyd's and some of Lloyd'sunderwriters in exchange for a 34 mln stg contribution from PCWmembers, he said.    Miller said that at end-1985, PCW syndicates had grossliabilities of 680 mln stg.    To offset this, they had assets, including cash andpayments from reinsurance policies on some of the risksunderwritten by the syndicates, of 445 mln stg, leaving netliabilities of 235 mln, he said.    The total sum on offer, including a 48 mln stg payment fromLloyd's 311 mln stg contingency fund and 55 mln stg fromLloyd's brokers who could otherwise face court cases for theirinvolvement in PCW, is designed to cover the full reinsurancecost for those 235 mln stg of net liabilities, Miller said.    Under the offer, which requires 90 pct acceptance, Lloyd'sitself would take over all members' future obligationsconnected with the PCW syndicates, Miller said. Members wouldhave to agree not to pursue the matter in court.    Miller said a rejection of the offer would probably lead toprotracted litigation in court which, even if succesful formembers, was unlikely to produce a better deal for them.    He added that acceptance would mean members could continueunderwriting in the Lloyd's market and qualify for tax reliefon the cash payments they would make towards the settlement.    Miller denied that PCW members would face bills of over200,000 stg.    He said only 34 members would be asked to pay between100,000 and 200,000 stg, and about 100 between 60,000 and100,000 stg. Special arrangements would be sought for those whoaccept the offer but are unable to pay.    Miller said the offer did not imply Lloyd's acceptedresponsibility for the affair, uncovered in the late autumn of1982 when "it became quite clear that (PCW agency founder) PeterCameron Webb and (his partner) Peter Dixon had perpetratedtheft upon members," he said.    Part of the sum involved was subsequently recovered andrepaid to members, but Cameron Webb and Dixon left the affairsof PCW syndicates "in a state of chaos which led to a sharpdeterioration of their underwriting results," Miller said. Bothwere fined by a Lloyd's disciplinary committee and expelledfrom membership.    He said Lloyd's would continue to seek reparation inBritish and U.S. Courts "with the utmost vigour ... To bring toa close one of the most shameful episodes in the history ofLloyd's," and was contemplating claiming the full amount of thesettlement now on offer from Cameron Webb and Dixon.    In a reaction, insurance brokerage Sedgwick Group Plc<SDWK.L> said it supported Lloyd's proposals and hadcontributed 10 mln stg towards the proposed settlement.    It said in a statement, "as largest broker in the Lloyd'smarket, the company has an essential interest in maintainingthe reputation of the market. That reputation has been damagedby problems at PCW and will continue to be so as long as theyremain unresolved." It had contributed to the proposedsettlement to avoid costs related to the defence of some of itssubsidiaries which had been named as potential defendants tolitigation by PCW members, it said. Reuter
FED SEEN BUYING DOLLARS FOR YEN IN OPEN MARKET The Federal Reserve was detected buyingdollars for yen in the open market as the dollar fell to a40-year low of 144.60 yen in nervous late morning trading,currency dealers said.     They said the size of the intervention was relativelymodest so far but it was a clear indication that the U.S.remained committed to the late February Paris currencystabilization accord, which was reaffirmed in Washington lastnight.    A Fed spokeswoman had no comment on the dealer reports.    The dollar hovered around 144.70 just before midday. Reuter
ANALYSTS DOUBT FED FIRMED DESPITE BORROWING RISE Economists said that they doubt theFederal Reserve is firming policy to aid the dollar, despitehigher discount window borrowings in the latest two-weekstatement period and very heavy borrowings Wednesday.    Data out today show net borrowings from the Fed averaged393 mln dlrs in the two weeks to Wednesday, up from 265 mlndlrs in the prior statement period. Wednesday borrowings were1.4 billion dlrs as Federal funds averaged a high 6.45 pct.    "One could make a case that the Fed is firming, but itprobably isn't," said William Sullivan of Dean Witter Reynolds.    Sullivan said some may assume the Fed has firmed policymodestly to support the dollar because net borrowings in thetwo-weeks to Wednesday were nearly 400 mln dlrs after averagingaround 250 mln dlrs over the previous two months.    However, the Dean Witter economist noted that the latesttwo-week period included a quarter end when seasonal demandoften pushes up borrrowings.    "Some might argue that the Fed was firming policy, but itlooks like it tried to play catchup with reserve provisionslate in the statement period and didn't quite make it," saidWard McCarthy of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.    A Fed spokesman told a press press conference today thatthe Fed had no large net one-day miss of two billion dlrs ormore in its reserve projections in the week ended Wednesday.    Still, McCarthy said it may have had a cumulative miss inits estimates over the week that caused it to add fewerreserves earlier in the week than were actually needed.    The Fed took no market reserve management action lastThursday and Friday, the first two days of the week. It addedtemporary reserves indirectly on Monday via two billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements and then supplied reservesdirectly via System repurchases on Tuesday and Wednesday.    Based on Fed data out today, economists calculated that thetwo-day System repurchase agreements the Fed arrranged onTuesday totaled around 5.9 billion dlrs. They put Wednesday'sovernight System repos at approximately 3.4 billion dlrs.    "It is quite clear that the Fed is not firming policy atthis time," said Larry Leuzzi of S.G. Warburg and Co Inc.    Citing the view shared by the other two economists, Leuzzisaid the Fed cannot really afford to seriously lift interestrates to help the dollar because that would harm already weakeconomies in the United States and abroad and add to thefinancial stress of developing countries and their lenders.    "Those who believe the Fed tightened policy in the lateststatement period have to explain why it acted before the dollartumbled," said McCarthy of Merrill Lynch.    He said the dollar staged a precipitous drop as a newstatement period began today on disappointment yesterday'sWashington meetings of international monetary officials failedto produce anything that would offer substantive dollar aid.    In fact, currency dealers said there was nothing inWednesday's G-7 communique to alter the prevailing view thatthe yen needs to rise further to redress the huge tradeimbalance between the United States and Japan.    The economists generally agreed that the Fed is aiming forsteady policy now that should correspond to a weekly averageFed funds rate between six and 6-1/8 pct. This is about wherethe rate has been since early November.    "I'm not so sure that the Fed is engineering a tighterpolicy to help the dollar, as some suspect," said Sullivan ofDean Witter.    If it is, however, he said that Fed probably has justnudged up its funds rate goal to around 6.25 to 6.35 pct fromsix to 6.10 pct previously. Reuter
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES TO BUY DOLLARS AROUND 143.70 YEN - The dollar opened at a record Tokyo lowof 143.75 yen despite aggressive Bank of Japan intervention,dealers said.    The previous record low was 144.70 yen set on March 30. Theopening compares with 143.90/144.00 yen at the close in NewYork.    The central bank bought dollars through Tokyo brokers justbefore and after the market opening, the dealers said.    The intervention took place when the dollar fell to 143.20yen, one dealer said.    The dollar opened at 1.8155/60 marks against 1.8187/97 inNew York.    The dollar fell as low as 142.90 yen despite central bankintervention at 143.00 yen, dealers said.    Selling pressure was strong from securities houses andinstitutional investors in hectic and nervous trading onunderlying bearish sentiment for the dollar, they said.    Most dealers were surpised by the dollar's sharp fallagainst the yen in New York, although many had expected such adrop to happen eventually.    Institutional investors are expected to sell the dollaraggressively if it rises to around 143.50 yen, dealers said.    The U.S. Currency steadied well above 143.00 yen after Bankof Japan intervention and scattered short-covering, they said.    The dollar opened at 1.5120/30 Swiss francs against1.5085/00 at the New York close.    Sterling started at 1.6190/00 dlrs against 1.6195/05. REUTER
DOLLAR FALLS BELOW 143 YEN IN TOKYO The dollar fell below 143 yen in hecticearly Tokyo trading despite aggressive Bank of Japanintervention, dealers said.    After opening at a Tokyo low of 143.75 yen, the dollar fellas low as 142.90 yen on heavy selling led by securities firmsand institutional investors, they said. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN ACTIVELY BUYING DOLLARS AT AROUND 142.20 YEN IN TOKYO - China is negotiating with Pakistan tobuy 5,000 tonnes of cotton this year, after importing the sameamount last year under a barter agreement, Chinese consulatesources said.    Chinese ambassador Tian Ding told a meeting of Pakistaniindustrialists on Thursday that China intended to increaseimports from Pakistan to reduce a trade imbalance.    Pakistani officials estimate the country's cotton outputfrom the current crop at a record 7.6 mln bales (375 poundseach). Last year's output totalled 7.2 mln bales and domesticconsumption was just below three mln bales, they said. REUTER
JAPAN CENTRAL BANK ACTIVELY BUYS DOLLARS IN TOKYO The Bank of Japan actively bought dollarshere in early afternoon trade at around 142.20 yen, dealerssaid.    The central bank had placed buy orders at that level andprevented the dollar from falling when it came under heavyselling pressure from investment trusts and trading houses,they said.    However, the intervention failed to boost the U.S. Currencysignificantly from the 142.20 yen level, they added.    The dollar was trading around its midday rate of 142.30yen. It had opened here at 141.85 yen. REUTER
JAPAN CENTRAL BANK ACTIVELY BUYS DOLLARS IN TOKYO The Bank of Japan actively bought dollarshere in early afternoon trade at around 142.20 yen, dealerssaid.    The central bank had placed buy orders at that level andprevented the dollar from falling when it came under heavyselling pressure from investment trusts and trading houses,they said.    However, the intervention failed to boost the U.S. Currencysignificantly from the 142.20 yen level, they added.    The dollar was trading around its midday rate of 142.30yen. It had opened here at 141.85 yen. REUTER
G-7 SEEMS WORRIED MARKETS IGNORE COORDINATION Top officials of leading industrialnations appear deeply worried that financial markets haveignored their efforts to coordinate policies, which theybelieve they strengthened in talks last week.    Monetary sources said officials were exasperated that themarkets, which drove the dollar rapidly lower and severelydisrupted bond and stock markets too, did not take heed of thepolicy commitments of the Group of Seven -- the United States,Japan, West Germany, France, Britain, Italy and Canada.    Treasury Secretary James Baker went out of his way toreassure markets of his commitment to a stable dollar with astatement, and French Finance Minister Edouard Balladurunderscored that by saying: "I don't believe at all that theAmericans want a weaker dollar."    West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said thedollar's latest rapid descent "involves the risk -- now alreadya tangible threat -- of a new strong surge of inflation,leading to a renewed rise in interest rates."    But there were signs too, that while policymakers fearedthe market uproar, they seemed to accept there was little theycould do until the economic picture changed, and currenciessettled into a stable pattern as a result.    Nor did there seem to be any enthusiasm at last week'ssemi-annual meetings of the IMF and the World Bank for higherU.S. Interest rates as the best way to curb the dollar's rapiddescent. That distaste stems in part from fears of recession.    Outgoing Deputy Treasury Secretary Richard Darman toldtelevision interviewers he did not think a policy of drivingthe dollar down would solve the U.S. trade deficit.    "It would slow growth in Germany and Japan which wouldadversely affect our trade balance and ultimately it woulddrive interest rates up here which would throw us, if not(into) recession, into slower growth," he said.    Asked if higher U.S. Interest rates would stabilize thedollar, Balladur said: "When a currency is maintainedartificially high, by artificially high interest rates, it isnot healthy."    And resorting to higher interest rates could lead torecession, he said.    Acknowledging the dollar's latest slide was now a fact oflife, Balladur said, "there may be adjustments of course in oneor other currencies, this is not a fixed rate system."    But Federal Reserve Board chairman Paul Volcker said hemight rein in credit if the dollar's slide deepens.    U.S. Monetary sources also said Washington wanted itunderstood by markets the seven's commitments were genuine.    "The United States and the six major industrial countriesare fully committed to implementing our undertakings in theseagreements," Baker told the meetings.    Darman said Baker had been misinterpreted by markets whichwrongly believed earlier remarks suggested he wanted a furtherdecline in the dollar. Baker, Darman said, was committed tostabilizing currencies at current levels.    Last week's statement from the seven reaffirmed a February22 agreement in Paris in which the Reagan administration agreedto reach a budget deficit compromise with Congress and to fightprotectionism.    West Germany and Japan, meanwhile, agreed to stimulatedomestic demand and lead a global upturn.    Ministers believed the Paris pact was bolstered by Japan'spromise of a 35 billion dlr supplementary budget.    The sources said they believed Baker saw it as a majoraction. But the seven seem to accept their commitment to stablecurrencies applied to today's exchange rates and not those atthe time of the Paris agreement, when the dollar stood higher.    The Paris accord said, "currencies (are) within rangesbroadly consistent with underlying economic fundamentals, giventhe policy commitments summarized in this statement."    Now they accept the dollar's lower level, especiallyagainst the yen, as hard reality that is nonetheless consistentwith the agreement. "The ministers and governors reaffirmed theview that around current levels their currencies are withinranges broadly consistent with fundamentals," last week'sstatement read.    Monetary sources said policymakers understood markets werefocusing on instability created by the gap between the U.S.Trade deficit and the surpluses of West Germany and Japanrather than prospective policy changes. European monetarysources said Bonn was still unconvinced that Washington meantbusiness with its commitment to cut the budget deficit. Reuter
Bank of Japan intervenes to support dollar after Tokyo opening, The Bank of Japan intervened in Tokyo tobuy dollars just after the market opened, dealers said.    The dollar opened at 142.05 yen against 142.15/25 in NewYork and 142.50 at the close here yesterday.    The bank stepped into the market amid selling pressure frominterbank dealers, dealers said. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN BUYS MODERATE DOLLAR SUM -- DEALERS The Bank of Japan intervened in themarket to try to accelerate the dollar's rise after heavydollar buying by institutional investors, dealers said.    The central bank bought a moderate amount of dollars ataround 142.10 yen, they said. REUTER
SWISS NATIONAL BANK SELLS YEN AGAINST DOLLAR The Swiss National Bank sold yen againstdollars, joining in concerted intervention by central banks, aspokesman for the National Bank said.    He declined to say which central banks had been active inthe market, but earlier today Tokyo dealers said the Bank ofJapan had intervened at 142.10 yen to the dollar, and marketsources here said they believed the Bundesbank was in themarket as well.    The National Bank spokesman declined to specify the volumeof its dollar purchases or the rate paid. REUTER
BUNDESBANK INTERVENES TO BUY DOLLARS AGAINST YEN The Bundesbank intervened in the openmarket to buy dollars against yen, dealers said.    They were responding to enquiries immediately after newsthe Swiss National Bank said it joined concerted interventionto sell yen for dollars.    The Bundesbank had no immediate comment on the reports.    But dealers said the German central bank came into themarket just after 1300 GMT when the dollar was trading around141.90 yen to buy small amounts of the U.S. Currency. Dollartrading had been very quiet for most of the European session. REUTER
FED'S ANGELL SAYS BOARD IN HARMONY ON RATES Federal Reserve Board Governor WayneAngell said the Reagan appointed majority on the board was notat odds with Chairman Paul Volcker on whether interest ratesshould rise to support the dollar.    "I would anticipate very little difference between thechairman's position on price-level stability - and on the viewof the dollar in foreign exchange markets - and my own," Angellsaid in an interview with the New York Times.    "And I would also see very little difference in (Governor)Manley Johnson's position and my own," he added.    The newspaper said Angell was speaking in response toinquiries concerning a report by syndicated columnists RowlandEvans and Robert Novak that Volcker was ready to raise rates todefend the dollar but that he was being thwarted by the fourReagan appointed members on the board.    Angell told the newspaper that there was no evidence ofdisagreement on the board and that "anyone who should suggest"there is one "might be reaching pretty far." Reuter
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN TOKYO MARKET The Bank of Japan intervened just afterthe Tokyo market opened to support the dollar from fallingbelow 140.00 yen, dealers said.    The central bank bought a moderate amount of dollars toprevent its decline amid bearish sentiment for the U.S.Currency, they said.    The dollar opened at a record Tokyo low of 140.00 yenagainst 140.70/80 in New York and 141.15 at the close hereyesterday. The previous Tokyo low was 140.55 yen set on April15. REUTER
Dollar trades at post-war low of 139.50 yen in Tokyo - Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa saidJapan has no plans to take new emergency measures to supportthe dollar, other than foreign exchange intervention.    He also told reporters that many major nations yesterdayintervened heavily to support the dollar against the yen.    Yesterday's intervention was large in terms of thecountries involved and the amounts expended, he said.    With the continued fall of the dollar against the yen,0speculation had arisen in currency markets here that Japanmight take new measures to support the U.S. Currency, such ascurbing capital outflows.    Miyazawa said that yesterday's news of a 4.3 pct rise inU.S. Gnp in the first quarter had been expected. Although thegrowth looks robust on the surface, the figures in reality arenot that good, he said.    He said the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) isexpected to come up with a final set of recommendations of waysto stimulate the Japanese economy before Prime MinisterYasuhiro Nakasone leaves for Washington next week.    Commenting on yesterday's report on economic restructuringby a high-level advisory panel to Nakasone, Miyazawa said itwas important to put the panel's recommendations into effect. REUTER
BUNDESBANK BOUGHT DOLLARS FOR YEN IN OPEN MARKET The Bundesbank intervened in the openmarket to buy dollars for yen ahead of the Frankfurt fixing,dealers said.    They said the Bundesbank bought dollars for around 139.80yen in small amounts in the half-hour running up to the 1100GMT fix.    The Bundesbank did not intervene when the dollar was fixedin Frankfurt at 1.7969 marks.    Earlier the Bank of Japan bought dollars steadily in theFar East, but could not stop heavy selling which pushed thedollar to a post-war low of 139.05 yen at one point. REUTER
NO SWISS NATIONAL BANK INTERVENTION SEEN A Swiss National Bank spokesman said thebank had not intervened in currency markets today and dealerssaid they had seen no evidence of Bundesbank action outsideWest Germany.    Frankfurt dealers reported that the Bundesbank boughtdollars for yen in the open market there.    Zurich dealers said the absence of the Swiss National Banksuggested that no concerted intervention was under way.    Asked earlier today if the Swiss National Bank hadintervened, the spokesman said "not yet." REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN TOKYO MARKET The Bank of Japan intervened just afterthe Tokyo market opened to support the dollar from fallingbelow 140.00 yen, dealers said.    The central bank bought a moderate amount of dollars toprevent its decline amid bearish sentiment for the U.S.Currency, they said.    The dollar opened at a record Tokyo low of 140.00 yenagainst 140.70/80 in New York and 141.15 at the close hereyesterday. The previous Tokyo low was 140.55 yen set on April15. REUTER
JAPAN HAS NO PLANS FOR NEW MEASURES TO AID DLR Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa saidJapan has no plans to take new emergency measures to supportthe dollar, other than foreign exchange intervention.    He also told reporters that many major nations yesterdayintervened heavily to support the dollar against the yen.    Yesterday's intervention was large in terms of thecountries involved and the amounts expended, he said.    With the continued fall of the dollar against the yen,speculation had arisen in currency markets here that Japanmight take new measures to support the U.S. Currency, such ascurbing capital outflows.    Miyazawa said that yesterday's news of a 4.3 pct rise inU.S. Gnp in the first quarter had been expected. Although thegrowth looks robust on the surface, the figures in reality arenot that good, he said.    He said the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) isexpected to come up with a final set of recommendations of waysto stimulate the Japanese economy before Prime MinisterYasuhiro Nakasone leaves for Washington next week.    Commenting on yesterday's report on economic restructuringby a high-level advisory panel to Nakasone, Miyazawa said itwas important to put the panel's recommendations into effect. REUTER
SWISS SAY THEY INTERVENED WITH BUNDESBANK AND FED The Swiss National Bank bought dollarsand sold yen in concerted action along with the Bundesbank andthe U.S. Federal Reserve Board, a bank spokesman told Reuters.    "We intervened in dollar-yen with the Bundesbank and theFed," he said. He declined to specify the extent of theintervention, which took place at around 1200 GMT, afterreports by Frankfurt dealers the Bundesbank was in the market.    The intervention failed to prevent the dollar dipping to1.4548 Swiss francs at around 1320 GMT, close to its all-timelow of 1.4510 francs set on September 26, 1978. It thensteadied to 1.4560/75 francs. REUTER
BAKER SAYS G-7 WANTS TO HALT DOLLAR FALL Treasury Secretary James Baker saidthe Group of Seven leading industrial nations is fullycommitted to halting a further decline in the dollar.    "Let me emphasize that all seven major industrial nationsremain fully committed to strengthening policy coordination,promoting growth and cooperating to foster stability ofexchange rates," he told the American Enterprise Institute.    "We all believe a further decline of the dollar could becounter productive to our efforts (to promote growth)," he said.    Baker also said that after meeting Japanese special envyShintaro Abe, "it's clear that Japan intends to take strongsteps to stimulate its economy to meet its committments underthe Louvre Accord."    Baker said in the past two years he has worked to promotegreater coordination of economic policies and importantprogress has been made.    "Substantial exchange rate adjustments have also beenaccomplished over the past two years so that today we arebetter positioned to promote growth and reduce externalimbalances," he said.    Baker pointed out that in February the seven agreed tofoster stable exchange rates and those commitments wererenewed recently.     In a speech largely devoted to discussing trade andcompetitiveness, Baker again warned of the dangers ofprotectionist trade legislation, saying it would harm the U.S.standard of living.    Baker stressed adminstration trade policy sought to removeforeign barriers to trade and via forthcoming GATT talks willfocus on agriculture, services and intellectual property.    The Treasury Secretary said that as well as trade issues hehad to focus on macroeconomic issues as well which encompassthe trade picture.    "The world economy today is really one constantly flowingcircle of capital and goods. Trade accounts catch and measurethat flow at only one spot on the circle," he said. Reuter
TREASURY'S BAKER - G-7 OPPOSE FURTHER DLR DROP Treasury Secretary James Baker saidthe Group of Seven countries, in seeking to foster stability inexchange markets, believe a further decline in the value of thedollar would be counterproductive.     In answer to questions by a business group, Baker saidthat for one thing further reductions could make iteconomically difficult for the surplus countries to grow,thereby making it difficult for them to purchase overseasgoods. In addition, Baker said he was opposed to the U.S.selling a yen denominated bond arguing that such a move mightsend the wrong signal to markets. Reuter
U.S. CENTRAL BANKER OPPOSES FURTHER DOLLAR FALL New York Federal Reserve BankPresident Gerald Corrigan opposed a further fall in the valueof the dollar but refused to say whether U.S. Interest rateswould be raised to protect the currency.    "A further decline in the dollar or appreciation of the yenat this juncture I would regard as counterproductive," he told anews conference.    His comments echoed those made last week by U.S. TreasurySecretary James Baker, who also warned against a further dollarfall. The U.S. Currency plunged to a post-war low below 140 yenlast week, despite dollar-buying by a number of central banks.    Currency speculators and investors are convinced that afurther dollar fall is needed to help reduce the huge U.S.Trade deficit, dealers said. The only thing likely to help thedollar is seen as a rise in U.S. Interest rates.    Corrigan refused to say whether the U.S. Was ready to riskdamaging its economic recovery by raising interest rates.    The dollar"s sharp drop this month has also raised questionsabout the usefulness of recent meetings of the Group of Seven.But Corrigan said: "They have played a constructive role in sofar as the broad objective of facilitating a higher degree ofeconomic policy coordination." REUTER
TRADE MINISTERS SAY GOVERNMENTS NEED CREDIBILITY Four trade ministers ended aweekend meeting with a frank confession that their governmentsare losing credibility in world financial markets and will notregain it until they back their promises over trade andcurrencies with action.    "Until today we have anounced policies, but when it came toaction required it was done in a way that satisfied nobody,"Japanese Trade Minister Hajime Tamura told a news conference.    "From now on, if a government comes up with a certainpolicy, it must be followed by action," he said following twodays of informal talks with the trade ministers of the UnitedStates, the European Community and Canada in central Japan.    Last week, the dollar fell to a new record low below 140yen, despite statements from the Group of Seven (G-7) leadingindustrial powers that currencies should be stabilised tounderpin world trade.    "We need credibility to gain confidence. When we haveconfidence, then we can have an impact," said Tamura.    His colleagues agreed that when major trade nations foughtover trade issues while calling for each other to honour freetrade rules in general, it was not a sight which inspiredconfidence in the markets.    "The time has come now to act in step with the talk. If youbelong to a club, you have to act in concord with the rules, ifyou want to be credible," said EC external trade chief Willy deClercq. Canadian Trade Minister Patricia Carney also agreed: "Weare meeting in a time of great trade tension. What the worldneeds to see is that we have the political will to deal withthese problems we face."    She said that next month"s meeting of the Organisation ofEconomic Cooperation and Development and the meeting of leadersof the G-7 nations in Venice in the summer would be a forum toshow this will existed.    U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter reminded the newsconference that the results of such high level meetings couldlead to action which would only have an effect on smoothing outworld trade imbalances perhaps years later.    "The media typically has a tendency to evaluate meetingslike this in terms of tangible results. That is not the way itshould be pursued," he said.    "What is achieved in an intangible way almost always exceedswhat is achieved in a tangible way," he said.    Progress in personal contacts and understanding each others"positions and policies was just as important toward reducingtrade tensions, he said.    Tamura read out an agreed summary of the joint talks:    Currency stability was now essential, but currencymovements alone would not correct a U.S. Trade deficit withJapan which hit 58 billion dlrs last year, an 18 billion dlr ECdeficit with Japan in 1986, and a Japanese global trade surplusof almost 90 billion, he said.    Trade retaliation, protectionism, and forcible exportrestraints which lead to a shrinkage in world trade flows weremost dangerous, he said.    The imbalances can only be solved by coordinated policiesover a whole range of fiscal, monetary, trade and industrialmeasures, and in line with a body of internationally agreedrules, he said.    In this regard, the policing role of the Geneva-basedGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade world trade body must bestrengthened, he said.    The ministers reconfirmed their individual promises tosolve the problem. The United States will try to reduce itslarge budget deficit and restore competitiveness within itsindustries.    Japan will introduce early and effective measures to expandits domestic growth and rely less on exports.    The EC must continue efforts for balanced growth andreduced unemployment. All felt satisfied at the new progress inthe Canadian economy. REUTER
G-7 OFFICIALS TO DECIDE ON SUMMIT AGENDA Senior officials from the Group ofSeven (G-7) countries will meet next week to decide an agendafor the body"s June summit scheduled to be held in Venice,Japanese officials said.    The meeting will provide senior government officials withtheir first chance to discuss the recent sharp drop of thedollar, although the main focus of the gathering is longerterm, they said.    Deputy Finance Ministers, including Japanese Vice-FinanceMinister Toyoo Gyohten, will attend. The meeting will be heldin Italy, they said, but gave no other details.    The leaders of the G-7, the United States, Britain, Canada,France, Italy, Japan and West Germany, are expected to discussways of improving economic policy coordination in Venice.    The hope is that increased coordination will help reducethe huge imbalances in world trade and calm volatile currencymarkets. But economists say the strategy has so far not worked.    Japanese officials admitted there is little more they cando on their own to stem the dollar decline, which last week sawthe currency plunge to a post-war low below 140 yen.    The officials said they expected sentiment against thedollar to change soon, once the U.S. Trade deficit starts tofall and the Japanese surplus begins to shrink.    "We have already seen some signs of improvement (in thetrade picture), but the market does not appreciate it yet," onesaid.    Last week"s passage of the Japanese government budget byparliament"s Lower House also paves the way for Tokyo to takeadditional action to stimulate its sagging economy and boostimports, the officials said. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN TOKYO BUYING DOLLARS The Bank of Japan intervened buyingdollars shortly after the opening of 137.70 yen, dealers said.    Strong selling from life insurance companies and investmenttrusts pressured the dollar downward, but the U.S. Unitsteadied on profit-taking buying by petroleum companies andintervention by the central bank.    The dollar's upward potential looks limited as forwarddollar selling by exporters for commercial purposes is expectedabove 137.80, dealers said. REUTER
SUMITA SAYS FURTHER YEN RISE UNLIKELY - JIJI PRESS Japan's Jiji Press quoted Bank of JapanGovernor Satoshi Sumita as telling Japanese reporters thecentral bank will continue determined market intervention toprevent a further rise in the value of the yen.    Sumita, who is attending an annual meeting of the AsianDevelopment Bank, also said he does not think the yen willcontinue to rise, Jiji reported. He said the Bank of Japan iskeeping close contact with other major industrial nations onconcerted market intervention, Jiji said. He said coordinatedintervention is the only way to stop the dollar from droppingtoo fast, Jiji said. The dollar fell below 138 yen today. REUTER
BUNDESBANK INTERVENES IN TOKYO VIA BANK OF JAPAN The Bundesbank intervened in the Tokyoforeign exchange market to buy a small amount of dollarsagainst marks through the Bank of Japan, dealers said.    The West German central bank bought dollars when the dollarwas at about 1.7770-80 marks. Dealers' estimates of theintervention amount varied from 100 mln to one billion dlrs.    Some dealers said the Bank of Japan appeared to haveundertaken small-lot mark-selling intervention on its ownaccount. REUTER
MIYAZAWA SAYS POLICY COORDINATION KEY TO CURRENCY Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawatold a press conference the basic solution to currencyinstability among major nations is economic policycoordination.    He said that is a time-consuming process as coordinationdoes not always proceed in a way policy makers envisage. "Thatis democracy," he said. Upon that foundation, Miyazawa said,there must be coordinated intervention. Major nations havesufficient funds to continue concerted intervention, he added.    "Without doubt this set-up of coordinated intervention willcontinue to operate," Miyazawa said.    Miyazawa said Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone and U.S.President Ronald Reagan are likely to reaffirm the Louvre andWashington Group of Seven (G-7) agreements on currencystability when they meet later this week.    Asked whether the dollar is declining against all majorcurrencies, not only the yen, Miyazawa declined to make anycomments.    He reiterated that many major nations have undertakencoordinated intervention in recent weeks to prop up the dollar,including countries who are not members of the G-7. REUTER
USSR ATTENDS ADB MEET, UNCERTAIN ON MEMBERSHIP The Soviet Union is attending anAsian Development Bank (ADB) annual general meeting for thefirst time, but has not decided whether to apply formembership, a senior Soviet State Bank official said.    "No specific plans exist for applying for membership," YurijPonomarev, international managing director of the State Bank,told Reuters. "It's too early to draw up any plans."    The USSR is attending the 20th meeting as an observer.    "The sole purpose is to observe and collect informationfirst hand," Ponomarev said.    He said the Soviet Union was responding to a long-standingADB invitation to attend the meetings.    "This is one of the fastest growing regions in the world,"the State Bank official said. "It is in our interest to havegood contacts."    But those strengthened contacts will not be made at theexpense of the Soviet Union's other relationships, he said.    Delegates here said the USSR move was connected to recentefforts to develop closer ties with Asia. The policy wasannounced last year by Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev in aspeech at Vladivostok.    Moscow's decision to attend the meetings follows itsapplication last year for membership of the General Agreementon Tariffs and Trade (GATT).    Delegates said the USSR faces lacklustre growth and issearching for ways to boost its economy.    Although the ADB said political ideology is not a critierafor membership, several delegates said politics would play alarge role in any decision to allow Moscow to join.    Moscow's application would have to be approved bytwo-thirds of the board of governors representingthree-quarters of the total voting power of member countries.    The basic votes of the 47 members are all equal and totalone-fifth of all votes. The remainder are proportional to thenumber of shares held by each member.    Japan is the largest shareholder, at 15.1 pct, followed bythe U.S. With 14.9 pct and China with 7.2 pct.    The U.S. Has more than 12 pct of the total votes,insufficient to block a Moscow membership bid.    Japanese officials said Tokyo has not decided its positionregarding the possibility of Soviet membership and said theynoted the Soviets had not yet made any move to join. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN TOKYO The Bank of Japan intervened in themarket, buying a moderate amount of dollars around 137.80-85yen, dealers said.    Some dealers noted talk that the Bundesbank intervened heredirectly buying dollars against marks, after reports that itintervened through the Bank of Japan in the morning.    The dollar moved up on short-covering aided by the centralbank intervention, they said. REUTER
BALDRIGE SAYS FURTHER DOLLAR FALL NOT PRODUCTIVE The U.S. Secretary of CommerceMalcolm Baldrige said a further decline of the dollar would notbe productive.    He told reporters here that Treasury Secretary James Baker"feels, and I feel the same way, that a further dollar fallwould be counterproductive."    Baldrige also said governments cannot determine long-termcurrency exchange rates and that currencies would eventuallyreflect underlying economic fundamentals.    The U.S. Commerce Secretary is in Hong Kong after stops inPeking and Seoul on an Asian trade tour. REUTER
MIYAZAWA DOES NOT THINK DOLLAR IN FREEFALL Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawatold a parliamentary Upper House budget committee that he doesnot think the dollar is in a freefall.    He said concerted intervention is only a supplementarymeasure to moderate volatility in exchange rates and repeatedthat policy coordination among major industrial nations isnecessary. "We cannot expect currency stability only throughcoordinated market intervention," he said.    Miyazawa also told the committee the U.S. Has not called onJapan to cut its 2.5 pct discount rate.    Miyazawa said the government is not considering investingin U.S. Government bonds to help stabilize exchange rates. Thismatter has to be dealt with carefully because it involves thepublic's money and exchange rates are moving widely, he added.    The ministry will consider where to invest its funds whenexchange rates become stable, he said.    Asked if Japan is considering a request to the U.S. For itto raise its discount rate to stabilize exchange rates,Miyazawa said the U.S. Has not been able to take action nowbecause it has to maintain its economic growth. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN TOKYO The Bank of Japan intervened in themarket, buying a moderate amount of dollars around 137.80-85yen, dealers said.    Some dealers noted talk that the Bundesbank intervened heredirectly buying dollars against marks, after reports that itintervened through the Bank of Japan in the morning.    The dollar moved up on short-covering aided by the centralbank intervention, they said. REUTER
MIYAZAWA DOES NOT THINK DOLLAR IN FREEFALL Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawatold a parliamentary Upper House budget committee that he doesnot think the dollar is in a freefall.    He said concerted intervention is only a supplementarymeasure to moderate volatility in exchange rates and repeatedthat policy coordination among major industrial nations isnecessary. "We cannot expect currency stability only throughcoordinated market intervention," he said.    Miyazawa also told the committee the U.S. Has not called onJapan to cut its 2.5 pct discount rate.    Miyazawa said the government is not considering investingin U.S. Government bonds to help stabilize exchange rates. Thismatter has to be dealt with carefully because it involves thepublic's money and exchange rates are moving widely, he added.    The ministry will consider where to invest its funds whenexchange rates become stable, he said.    Asked if Japan is considering a request to the U.S. For itto raise its discount rate to stabilize exchange rates,Miyazawa said the U.S. Has not been able to take action nowbecause it has to maintain its economic growth. REUTER
FED'S CORRIGAN OPPOSES FURTHER DOLLAR FALL New York Federal Reserve BankPresident Gerald Corrigan opposed a further fall in the valueof the dollar but refused to say whether U.S. interest rateswould be raised to protect the currency.    "A further decline in the dollar or appreciation of the yenat this juncture I would regard as counterproductive," he told anews conference.    His comments echoed those made last week by U.S. TreasurySecretary James Baker, who also warned against a further dollarfall.    Currency speculators and investors are convinced that afurther dollar fall is needed to help reduce the huge U.S.trade deficit, dealers said, adding the only thing likely tohelp the dollar is seen as a rise in U.S. Interest rates.    Corrigan refused to say whether the U.S. was ready to riskdamaging its economic recovery by raising interest rates.    The dollar's sharp drop this month has also raisedquestions about the usefulness of recent meetings of the Groupof Seven. But Corrigan said: "They have played a constructiverole in so far as the broad objective of facilitating a higherdegree of economic policy coordination." Reuter
MIYAZAWA SAYS POLICY COORDINATION KEY TO CURRENCY Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawatold a press conference the basic solution to currencyinstability among major nations is economic policycoordination.    He said that is a time-consuming process as coordinationdoes not always proceed in a way policy makers envisage. "Thatis democracy," he said. Upon that foundation, Miyazawa said,there must be coordinated intervention. Major nations havesufficient funds to continue concerted intervention, he added.    "Without doubt this set-up of coordinated intervention willcontinue to operate," Miyazawa said.    Miyazawa said Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone and U.S.President Ronald Reagan are likely to reaffirm the Louvre andWashington Group of Seven (G-7) agreements on currencystability when they meet later this week.    Asked whether the dollar is declining against all majorcurrencies, not only the yen, Miyazawa declined to make anycomments.    He reiterated that many major nations have undertakencoordinated intervention in recent weeks to prop up the dollar,including countries who are not members of the G-7. Reuter
G-7 OFFICIALS TO DECIDE ON SUMMIT AGENDA Senior officials from the Group ofSeven (G-7) countries will meet next week to decide an agendafor the body's June summit scheduled to be held in Venice,Japanese officials said.    The meeting will provide senior government officials withtheir first chance to discuss the recent sharp drop of thedollar, although the main focus of the gathering is longerterm, they said.    Deputy Finance Ministers, including Japanese Vice-FinanceMinister Toyoo Gyohten, will attend. The meeting will be heldin Italy, they said, but gave no other details.    The leaders of the G-7, the United States, Britain, Canada,France, Italy, Japan and West Germany, are expected to discussways of improving economic policy coordination in Venice.    The hope is that increased coordination will help reducethe huge imbalances in world trade and calm volatile currencymarkets. But economists say the strategy has so far not worked.    Japanese officials admitted there is little more they cando on their own to stem the dollar decline, which last week sawthe currency plunge to a post-war low below 140 yen.    The officials said they expected sentiment against thedollar to change soon, once the U.S. Trade deficit starts tofall and the Japanese surplus begins to shrink.    "We have already seen some signs of improvement (in thetrade picture), but the market does not appreciate it yet," onesaid.    Last week's passage of the Japanese government budget byparliament's Lower House also paves the way for Tokyo to takeadditional action to stimulate its sagging economy and boostimports, the officials said. Reuter
BALLADUR URGES ADHERENCE TO G-7 CURRENCY ACCORDS French Finance Minister Edouard Balladursaid the Group of Seven major industrial nations, G-7, canachieve stable currency values by adhering to accords reachedthis year in Paris and Washington.    Balladur, asked at a news conference if coordinated marketintervention by central banks was sufficient to halt thedollar's recent slide, said "each country has to fulfillcommitments" outlined in the G-7 accords.    Earlier this month in Washington, finance ministers of theU.S., Japan, West Germany, France, Italy, Britain and Canadareaffirmed an earlier Paris accord to arrest the dollar's fall.    Balladur said the current nervousness in foreign exchangemarkets can be partly attributed to "some operators in themarket only watching short term economic indicators. You haveto keep a cool head," he said, declining to elaborate further.    In an earlier speech before the Milan Chamber of Commerce,the minister said European countries have to seek "a betterconsensus of economic and monetary policies."    On the European Monetary System, he said, "The persistentvulnerability of the foreign currency mechanism, particularlyto the movements of the dollar, can be explained by the absenceof a common policy for currencies of other countries."    Balladur said, "I am profoundly convinced that the Europeancountries have to define together this position with respect tothe dollar and the yen."    He said Italy eventually would have to abandon its highermargin of fluctuation within the European Montetary System. "Ihope that the spectacular improvement of the economic situationand of the balance of payments will permit (Italy) to do itsoon."    The lira is currently allowed a fluctuation margin eitherside of its agreed midpoints with other EMS currencies of sixpct, against 2.25 pct permitted for the other members.  REUTER
BALLADUR URGES ADHERENCE TO G-7 CURRENCY ACCORDS French Finance Minister Edouard Balladursaid the Group of Seven major industrial nations, G-7, canachieve stable currency values by adhering to accords reachedthis year in Paris and Washington.    Balladur, asked at a news conference if coordinated marketintervention by central banks was sufficient to halt thedollar's recent slide, said "each country has to fulfillcommitments" outlined in the G-7 accords.    Earlier this month in Washington, finance ministers of theU.S., Japan, West Germany, France, Italy, Britain and Canadareaffirmed an earlier Paris accord to arrest the dollar's fall.    Balladur said the current nervousness in foreign exchangemarkets can be partly attributed to "some operators in themarket only watching short term economic indicators. You haveto keep a cool head," he said, declining to elaborate further.    In an earlier speech before the Milan Chamber of Commerce,the minister said European countries have to seek "a betterconsensus of economic and monetary policies."    On the European Monetary System, he said, "The persistentvulnerability of the foreign currency mechanism, particularlyto the movements of the dollar, can be explained by the absenceof a common policy for currencies of other countries."    Balladur said, "I am profoundly convinced that the Europeancountries have to define together this position with respect tothe dollar and the yen."    He said Italy eventually would have to abandon its highermargin of fluctuation within the European Montetary System. "Ihope that the spectacular improvement of the economic situationand of the balance of payments will permit (Italy) to do itsoon."    The lira is currently allowed a fluctuation margin eitherside of its agreed midpoints with other EMS currencies of sixpct, against 2.25 pct permitted for the other members.  REUTER
DUTCH CENTRAL BANK INTERVENES TO SUPPORT DOLLAR The Dutch Central Bank intervenedmodestly to support the dollar with spot market transactions,dealers said.    They said the bank bought dollars against guilders as theU.S. Currency dipped to a low of 2.0013 guilders from 2.0130-40on opening, the lowest since the end of January.    There was no intervention at the fix, however, which putthe dollar at 2.0045 guilders after 2.0280 last Friday, anddealers said the Bank's buying was limited.    "I'd be surprised if the Bank had bought as much as 100 mlndlrs," one dealer said. Reuter
STOLTENBERG REAFFIRMS COMMITMENT TO LOUVRE ACCORD Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenbergreaffirmed his commitment to the Louvre accord struck in Pariswhere leading industrialised countries agreed to stabilise thedollar around then current levels.    He told a congress of West German tax advisers in Hamburgthe policy agreed in Paris has so far been successful in themark/dollar relationship.    "We want to continue it (the policy)," Stoltenberg said.According to a text of his remarks released in Bonn, he alsosaid trade tensions in specific branches had to be overcome andhe warned against any return to protectionism. REUTER
WHITE HOUSE DECLINES COMMENT ON DOLLAR'S SLIDE White House spokesman MarlinFitzwater declined to comment on the continuing slide of thedollar against the Japanese yen, but said Treasury SecretaryJames Baker was watching developments.    "Jim Baker is monitoring that at the Treasury Department,but at this point we don't have any comment to make on thedollar," Fitzwater told reporters.    He was asked at a briefing whether the White House wasconcerned about the continuing decline in the dollar's value. Reuter
PRESSURE GROWS FOR U.S. ACTION TO AID DOLLAR Pressure is growing in the financialmarkets for the U.S. to take overt action to stabilize thedollar even though doubts linger that it has fallen far enoughto help redress world trade imbalances, economists and dealerssaid.    Some experts believe that a half-point increase in the U.S.discount rate, preferably in conjunction with rate cuts inTokyo and Bonn, would be enough to discourage sellers.    But many fear that more drastic action, such as a U.S.issue of yen-denominated Treasury bonds, may be needed.    Despite official warnings about the dangers of a furtherdollar decline and concerted central bank intervention, thedollar extended its recent sharp depreciation, touching a40-year low of 137.25 yen in Tokyo earlier today after closinghere on Friday at 139.30/40.    The impact on other financial markets was devastating.    In Tokyo, the stock market suffered its largest single daydecline; in London, gold bullion prices rose to four-year highsand in the U.S., long Treasury bond yields surged above 8.80pct and the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell more than 40points in hectic early trading.    "The problem now is linkage. This is not just a currencyproblem. It is affecting all the markets," said one seniortrader at a major U.S. bank.    Up until September of last year, international efforts toredress world trade imbalances appeared to working like adream; the dollar was falling in an orderly manner, worldinterest rates were tumbling and inflation was kept in check.    In recent months, however, this strategy has begun to showsigns of severe stress, with the U.S. imposition of punitivetariffs on Japan threatening to unravel this spirit ofcooperating and condemn the world to a damaging trade war.    "The markets fear that we have built up a momentum that isreally difficult to stop. A U.S. rate hike has become aninevitability," one currency dealer said.    "At this point, nothing short of a Fed discount rateincrease, ideally combined with further discount rate cuts byJapan and Germany, would seem capable of stabilizing thedollar," said David Jones of Aubrey G. Lanston and Co Inc.    Allen Sinai of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc predicted a 1/4to 1/2 point U.S. rate increase before May 19 and a rise inU.S. bank prime lending rates to eight pct from 7-3/4 pct inthe near future.    But many economists feared that any moderate U.S. rateincreases, which appear unlikely to be matched by rate cutsoverseas, would be too little, too late.    "They should have done this 10 days ago. It would have donethe trick then," said one currency analyst.    "If they do it now, it would be seen as a defensive measurenot an offensive one. It would show policy weakness notstrength," added one trader.    In addition, economists fear that a discount rate risemight place additional strain on a sluggish U.S. economy andtempt embattled debtor nations to retaliate.    A U.S. discount rate increase would also fuel theprotectionist fires in Washington, where the House is expectedto pass a protectionist trade bill, whatever compromisesPresident Reagan and Prime Minister Nakasone can come up withduring their summit later in the week.    "Politically, they can't really do it this week," said onecurrency analyst, pointing out that if it failed to stabilizethe dollar, it would only weaken the U.S. negotiating stance.    Even if the U.S. retains the upper hand, economists andtraders do not hold out high hopes for any major newinitiatives from this week's talks.    At best, the experts see some sort of accord whereby Japanwill agree to stimulate growth and open its domestic markets tooutsiders while the U.S. promises to lift its tariffs andsupport the Group of Seven dollar stabilization agreement.    But many fear that this may not be enough to assuage themarket's speculative selling fervor, which has now raised fearsof weak overseas interest at next week's quarterly U.S.Treasury refunding program.    Japanese and European investors have traditionally playedan active role in these auctions, which are expected to total28 to 29 billion dlrs.    Consequently, thoughts are turning to the possibility thatPresident Reagan may try to remove foreign investors' worriesabout currency risk by financing part of the U.S. budgetdeficit in yen or mark bonds, rather than dollars.    While similar action by former President Carter helped tostabilize the dollar in 1978, the White House is clearlyreluctant to take such a step, economists said.    This hesitance was amply shown last Friday when U.S.Treasury Secretary James Baker said, "there might well be somewho would view (yen-denominated bonds) as a lack of confidenceby the U.S. in its own currency."    Baker added, "therefore we don't think it's an appropriatething to do."    A foreign exchange analyst at a major Japanese bank hereshared Baker's doubts. "Dollar defending measures are veryunlikely. They will confirm the dollar's weak undertone andlead to further speculative dollar selling," he said.    Thus, it may be less destabilizing for the authorities tostop trying to fight the market's bearish sentiment.    In a recent lengthy report, economists at Morgan GuarantyTrust Co concluded, "the dollar should be left free to trade atwhatever level market forces produce." Reuter
U.S. MAY HAVE TO ACT TO SUPPORT DOLLAR The prospect of renewed assaults onthe dollar might force the United States eventually to unveildistasteful measures to bolster support for its currency,monetary analysts and economists said.    Treasury Secretary James Baker has acknowledged that theReagan administration discussed the possibility of issuingyen-denominated U.S. government bonds to support the dollar.    But he has also dismissed speculation that he was ready totake such an unusual step. Nonetheless, monetary sources saythe issue has been seriously discussed by the administration.    "It is unlikely that we would undertake to do that now,"Baker said last week. "In our view there might well be some whowould view (issuing U.S. yen bonds) as, in fact, a lack ofconfidence by the U.S. in its own currency. And therefore wedon't think it's an appropriate thing to do."    But if the Reagan administration did announce measures,they could be a part of an internationally-coordinated effortto end the instability in financial markets with genuine actionto reduce massive economic imbalances, monetary analystsbelieve.    And, like a currency defense package unveiled by the Carteradministration, issuing yen bonds could be accompanied by arise in the discount rate, now 5.5 pct.    The Federal Reserve has resisted pressure to raise this keyrate so far, chiefly, some Fed officials say, because it couldhurt economic growth. Another concern is the fragileinternational debt situation.    Analysts who expect a currency support package are dividedover its possible timing. Some even believe an announcementcould come this week during a visit to Washington by JapanesePrime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone.    "It would give some real focus to the visit, and it mightsteady the dollar and prevent it from going down," said CharlesTaylor, an analyst with Prudential-Bache Securities.    But monetary sources said they thought it unlikely that theReagan administration would resort to measures which wouldbring to mind the troubles of President Carter.    Until very recently, the current administration has urged alower dollar to help redress its huge trade deficit whileCarter faced a weak dollar as confidence in his economicpolicies collapsed. But today, Washington's policies areincreasingly in question.    The Carter plan was unleashed on Nov. 1, 1978. And it was aresounding success. "This package really gave credibility to theadministration to get the dollar up," said Robert Hormats,vice-president of Goldman Sachs Inc and a former senior U.S.economic in the Carter and Reagan Administrations.    The dollar then stood at just under 1.87 marks and around188 yen. Today it stands around 1.79 marks and 139 yen.    "The problem is now that the administration in rhetoric isevidencing concern about the dollar but in practice is reallydoing very little," Hormats said of statements to support thedollar by U.S. officials.    Several currency traders and foreign central bank officialsthink these statements still fall short of unequivocally sayingthe dollar has declined far enough.    Carter issued 6.4 billion dlrs of mark and swiss francbonds aimed essentially at buttressing pyschological supportfor the dollar but also at attracting foreign investors, whohad lost confidence in the dollar, to U.S. government notes.    The package was supported by a one pct rise in the discountrate, to 9.5 pct, drawings on U.S. monetary reserves at theInternational Monetary Fund and sales of U.S.-held SDRS toother IMF members.     It was also supported by increased Fed currency swap lineswith other central banks and stepped up official U.S. goldsales.    Stephen Axilrod, a former Fed official who is nowvice-chairman of Nikko Securities, said, "I think it's veryunlikely they would do that now."    He argued that it was politically difficult to take actionto support the dollar while Japan and West Germany have stillto fulfill pledges to stimulate their economies.    But most analysts believe a currency support package wouldonly work if genuine economic measures to redress world tradeimbalances are undertaken by the leading industrial powers.    It could coincide with the June Venice summit of leaders ofthe seven major industrial democracies -- the United States,Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada.    Hormats said he believed the currency has to declineslightly further for a package to have impact. He said theseven nations' Paris Accord to stabilize currencies was forgedtoo soon to fundamentally change market sentiment.    "I think we're nearing a point when they would feel(politically) comfortable doing this," Hormats said.    Many analysts think the administration's reluctance to actfirmly on the dollar has been due to its desire to keep up thepressure on its allies to bolster their economies and for fearof fanning protectionist sentiment in Congress.    But Hormats said "there will be a point at which thegovernment of the United States shows it does give a damn forthe dollar." Reuter
NERVOUS CONSOLIDATION SEEN IN CURRENCY FUTURES Currency futures at the InternationalMonetary Market (IMM) are likely to consolidate near currentlevels in nervous trading conditions over the next few days,although underlying sentiment remains positive, currencyanalysts said.    "Currencies are likely to muddle around these levels," saidShearson Lehman Brothers analyst Anne Parker Mills.    Traders are unwilling to establish either long or shortpositions in futures because of uncertainty over upcoming tradetalks and U.S. trade legislation, they said.    Japanese prime minister Yasuhiro Nakasone and PresidentReagan will meet Thursday and Friday to discuss trade tensionsbetween their two countries, while at the same time theDemocratic-led U.S. House of Representatives will be voting ona controversial trade bill.    "Unless something really surprising comes out of theNakasone/Reagan talks, I don't see the dollar getting above 142(yen) and 1.83 (marks)," Mills said.    The equivalent in futures of those interbank levels areabout 0.007050 to 0.007025 in the June yen contract and about0.5500 in June marks, she said.    June yen closed at 0.007191 on Tuesday while June marksfinished the day at 0.5602.    Mills said, however, that "the chances of them (Reagan andNakasone) coming up with something new are limited." Onepossibility might be a Japanese discount rate cut, but "theyprobably won't do that unless we raise our discount rate."    Recent firmness in the federal funds rate and the FederalReserve's slowness in adding reserves to the banking system hasheightened sentiment that the money-policy making body hasalready tightened credit and a discount rate hike is possible,analysts said.    Recent weakness in currencies and strength in the dollarhas been more the result of nervous shortcovering ahead of themeeting rather than reaction to the White House statementMonday supporting a stable dollar, said Harris bank currencyanalyst Earl Johnson.    Traders "are worried about the outcome of the talks betweenReagan and Nakasone," and as the talks are late in the week,the market may not get a chance to react to any developmentsuntil Monday, Johnson said.    Until then, Johnson expects the dollar to remain in a broadrange between 1.77 and 1.85 marks and 137 to 140.50 yen.    Chicago Corp analyst John Bilson, however, expects a rallyin the European currencies over the near-term, while the yen,at this point is overbought.    "The Japanese are moving away from the U.S. market," andinvestment funds formerly directed to the U.S. are likely toflow into Europe, Bilson said.    The chief beneficiary of such a flow of funds will besterling, Bilson said.    "Sterling rates are about four pct above Japanese rates,despite the half point rate cut," Bilson said. Major U.K. bankslowered their base lending rates today to 9.5 pct.    In addition to a favorable interest rate spread whichshould attract funds, Bilson said the firm oil market and thestrong political situation of Prime Minister Thatcher also makeBritish investments attractive.    Passage of the trade bill, which includes an amendment byMissouri Democrat Richard Gephardt that would force a 10 pctannual cut in imports from countries with an excessive tradesurplus with the U.S. if they fail to remove unfair tradebarriers to the U.S. after six months of negatiations, wouldlikely pressure the yen, Bilson said.    Bilson, however, said the legislation is unlikely to pass,but that Nakasone is likely to bring a promise to open Japanesemarkets to U.S. goods and back it up with government contractswith U.S. manufacturers. Reuter
HONG KONG DEFENDS CURRENCY LINK WITH U.S. DOLLAR Hong Kong has not taken unfairadvantage of its currency's link with the U.S. Dollar, HongKong monetary affairs secretary David Nendick told the annualmeeting of the Asian Development Bank here.    He said: "We have taken the rough with the smooth, having toaccept a downward adjustment of our economy in 1985 following aperiod when the U.S. Dollar was clearly overvalued in worldterms, but benefiting as that currency subsequently declined."He said that since the establishment of the link in 1983, HongKong's trade had been broadly in balance. This year a modestdeficit was expected.    "Under the link, Hong Kong's entirely free and open economycontinues to adjust quickly to any external imbalances, but theburden of adjustment now falls almost entirely on our domesticinterest rates, money supply and price levels," Nendick said.    "The relative volatility in these domestic variables is theprice we pay for the stability of our currency against the U.S.Dollar," he said. REUTER
TAIWAN CENTRAL BANK DEFENDS DOLLAR RESERVES POLICY Central Bank governor Chang Chi-chengdefended Taiwan's policy of holding a large amount of itsforeign exchange reserves in U.S. Dollars, citing similarpolicies followed by countries such as West Germany and Japan.    The reserves, now a record 56 billion U.S. Dlrs, are theworld's largest after those of West Germany and Japan. About 90pct is held in U.S. Dollars and the rest in yen and marks.    Chang's remarks to parliament were in response to a call onMonday by about 20 members of the parliament who asked thegovernment to diversify into other currencies, including yen,marks and Swiss francs because of exchange rate losses.    The legislators said the bank lost about 3.8 billion U.S.Dlrs between September 1985 and September 1986 as the Taiwandollar rose to 36.77 to the U.S. Dollar from 40.45.    They said they expected the losses to continue because ofthe rising Taiwan dollar against the U.S. Currency.    Chang said the central bank could not sell the U.S. Dollarslike other private banks or enterprises because such tradingwould be speculative and risky.    "The U.S. Dollar is an international currency and is widelyused among trading nations," he added.    Chang said the Central Bank has further revised foreignexchange rules, which would relax most controls or even suspendthem.    The revised rules have been submitted to the cabinet forapproval, he said. He declined to give details. REUTER
REAGAN WARNS ON FURTHER DOLLAR FALL President Reagan said a furtherdecline in the value of the dollar could be counterproductive.    In written answers to questions put by Japan's AsahiShimbun newspaper, he noted Treasury Secretary James Baker hadsaid all seven major industrial nations were committed tocooperating in fostering stability of exchange rates.    "We all believe a further decline of the dollar could becounterproductive," Reagan said.    Reagan said the best way for the United States to reduceits trade deficit was to export more.    He said Japan could make a major contribution to reducingexternal imbalances and sustaining world economic growth byadopting policies to promote stronger domestic demand in theshort-run and, in the long-run, implementing structural reformsto ease Japanese dependence on exports as a source of growth. Reuter
SENIOR ECONOMIST PREDICTS 30 PCT FALL IN DOLLAR a senior economist predicted theu.s. dollar would decline another 30 pct by year-end, but saidhe foresees no significant change in u.s. interest rates.    "the market recognizes another 30 pct dollar depreciation isnecessary," said rudiger dornbush of the massachusetts instituteof technology.    he said the only thing preventing the dollar from droppingfar below current levels was intervention by central banks indefinace of market forces.    he said artifical support of the dollar had put the world'sfinancial markets in an "excessively volatile" position, however,and predicted that within about four months "it is going to bevery difficult to keep the dollar in place."    the forecasts, dornbush added, are for "a steadydeterioration from now on."    dornbush, a university of chicago-educated economist, workswith the national bureau of economic research as well as mit.he spoke here at the invitation of panama's national bankingassociation, sponsor of a three-day international bankingconvention that got under way yesterday.    dornbush discarded fears of soaring u.s. interest ratesbecause of the declining dollar.    "the u.s. cannot raise interest rates. if it raises interestrates all the debts will bounce in the foreign sector ... andall over latin america," he said. Reuter
U.S. TRADE DATA SEEN AS KEY TO DOLLAR TREND The dollar's recent signs of stabilityhave raised hopes that its 27-month decline may be nearly over,but most currency analysts refuse to commit themselves untilafter the June 12 release of U.S. trade data for April.    "The trade data will be a deciding factor to see if thedollar has bottomed out," said Jim McGroarty of Discount Corp.    Since February 1985, the dollar has nearly halved its valueagainst the yen and the mark as part of an officiallyorchestrated campaign to make U.S. goods more competitive onworld markets and redress gaping world trade imbalances.    On April 27, the dollar fell to a 40-year low of 137.25 yenbut has enjoyed a modest recovery over the last few weeks,topping 145 yen today for the first time in nearly two months.    Many economists now believe that the dollar has fallen farenough to ease the trade deficit's drag on the U.S. economy.    The U.S. trade gap narrowed to 13.6 billion dlrs in Marchfrom 15.1 billion in February and is expected to show continuedimprovement in April in volume, if not in real, terms.    Keiichi Udagawa of Bank of Tokyo in New York said that iffurther progress is reported, the dollar would head back uptowards 150 yen.    "There is growing consensus that the dollar has bottomedout for the medium term," added Tom Campbell of First NationalBank of Chicago.    Other factors supporting this bullish view were growingexpectations that Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker wouldbe reappointed for a third four-year term in August, Japan'slarger-than-expected economic stimulus package last week and more favorably technical chart signals, analysts said.    The dollar was also aided by Japan's moves to dampenspeculative selling in Tokyo and by reports of active centralbank intervention to support the dollar.    The Federal Reserve Bank of New York said last week thatthe U.S. monetary authorities bought more than four billiondlrs during the February-April period -- the largest amountsince the dollar crisis of the late 1970's.    Discount Corp's McGroarty described the Fed's interventionvolume as "impressive".    James O'Neill of Marine Midland Bank was not so positive,however: "the dollar has not yet bottomed out. After the tradedata are released, the dollar could fall towards 1.77 marks and140 yen."    Similarly, Natsuo Okada of Sumitomo Bank in New Yorkwarned, "I don't think the dollar has bottomed out yet."    Although the dollar could rise as high as 146.50 yen, Okadasaid market impatience about the painstakingly slow decline ofthe U.S. trade deficit may lead to renewed pressure.    Currency analysts also warned about an unfavorable reactionto the seven-nation economic Summit on June 8 to 10 in Venice,which is likely to focus on the implementation of previouscommitments rather than yield any fresh initiatives.    President Reagan said today, "economic policy decisionsmade last year in Tokyo and at this year's meetings of Group ofSeven finance ministers in Paris and Washington cannot beignored or forgotten."    "The commitments made at these meetings need to betranslated into action," he added in a speech, celebrating the40th anniversary of the Marshall aid plan for Europe.    Now that Tokyo has unveiled its fiscal stimulus package,analysts expected Bonn and the dollar/mark rate to bear thebrunt of U.S. calls for further action.    Marine Midland's O'Neill said, "pressure will build up onGermany to take stimulative action like Japan."    Some Japanese bank dealers warned that although the dollarcould hold above 145 yen for some months it could also comeunder attack again if it seems the latest economic package isnot having much impact on Japan's economy and its tradesurplus. Reflecting a longer-term uncertainty, some some trustbanks and Japanese insurers are keeping their short dollarpositons hedged against exchange losses in their foreignportfolios, while some others have started covering those shortpositions, Japanese bank dealers said. Reuter
GREENSPAN SAYS THERE IS EVIDENCE DOLLAR HAS BOTT Newly-nominated Federal Reserve Boardchairman Alan Greenspan said there was evidence the dollarfinally had bottomed out.    In a White House briefing Greenspan was asked by reportersif he thought the dollar had bottomed out.    "There certainly is evidence in that direction," he replied. Reuter
VOLCKER DEPARTURE REVIVES DLR, INFLATION FEARS Paul Volcker's decision not to go for athird term as Federal Reserve Chairman and the nomination ofAlan Greenspan to replace him have revived deep concerns aboutthe U.S.' ability to prevent a further dollar decline and stemrising inflation, financial market analysts said.    Although Greenspan is known as a committed anti-inflationfighter in the Volcker mould, doubts are already surfacing inthe U.S. financial markets as to whether he has enoughpolitical clout and monetary experience to wage a toughcampaign against inflation over the next year or two.    "The critical issue is how (Greenspan) will deal withinflation," said Stephen Axilrod, Vice Chairman of NikkoSecurities Co International Inc and former staff director formonetary and financial policy at the Fed.    "A lot of questions have been raised by Volcker'sdeparture. Until Greenspan answers them, the markets willremain nervous," added Stephen Slifer, money market economistat Shearson Lehman Government Securities Inc.    This morning's announcement sent the dollar into atailspin, which was halted only by concerted central bankintervention in the open currency market. Reuter
Bank of Japan intervened buying small amount of dollars at 142.85 yen - Daiwa Singapore Ltd, wholly-owned byDaiwa Securities Co Ltd of Japan, yesterday launched a 100 mlnU.S. Dlr tranche of an equity warrant eurobond in Singapore forJapan's Minebea Co Ltd <MIAT.T>.    The five-year eurobond carries an indicative coupon rate ofone and 5/8 pct and will be managed from Singapore. Thewarrants may be exercised for shares in Minebea from July 1,1987 to June 10, 1992.    The bond was part of a 200 mln U.S. Dlr equity warrantEurobond issued by Minebea. Nomura International Ltd launchedthe other 100 mln dlr bond in London. REUTER
NAKASONE SAYS DOLLAR FALL ONLY TEMPORARY Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone said thedollar's sharp fall against the yen overnight was onlytemporary.    The dollar dropped sharply in New York after news that PaulVolcker would step down as chairman of the U.S. FederalReserve.    Nakasone told reporters he did not expect U.S. Policy tochange after Volcker steps down. REUTER
BAKER SAYS DOLLAR DROP WOULD BE COUNTERPRODUCTIVE Treasury Secretary JamesBaker said any further decline in the dollar against othercurrencies would be counterproductive.    Baker was asked after a speech to the Pan American EconomicLeadership Conference about U.S. policy in light of PresidentReagan's comment last week at the Venice summit that he couldsee some further decline in the dollar within reason.    "All of the G-7 nations believe that any further decline inthe dollar would be counterproductive," Baker told reporters.    Following the Venice press conference by Reagan, the WhiteHouse clarified Reagan's comments on the dollar by saying thatthe United States wants a stable dollar.    The main incentive for the United States to favor a weakerdollar has been the need to reduce the massive trade deficit,but the deficit has narrowed for the past two months andappears to be responding to the 40 pct drop in the dollaragainst the yen and the mark during the past two years. Reuter
JAPAN MINISTRY SAYS DOLLAR SHOULD BE ABOVE 170 YEN The dollar should worth more than 170 yenbased on purchasing power parity, the Ministry of InternationalTrade and Industry (MITI) said in its annual white paper oninternational trade.    Using 1973 as a base year, the ministry said inflationdifferentials pointed to a yen/dollar rate of 172 in fourthquarter 1986. The dollar opened here today at 144.90 yen.    MITI also said the so-called "J-curve" and the drop in oilprices together accounted for 33.2 billion dlrs of the 36.6billion dlr rise in Japan's trade surplus last year.    On a customs cleared basis, the Japanese trade surplus roseto a record 82.66 billion dlrs last year.    The ministry said the fall in oil prices accounted for 16.5billion dlrs and the "J-curve" 17.2 billion dlrs of the rise inthe 1986 surplus.    Analyzing the expansion in Japan's trade imbalance inrecent years, MITI calculated that 37 pct of it could beaccounted for by exchange rates, 24 pct by differences ineconomic growth rates between Japan and other countries, and 36pct by so-called price elasticities of imports and exports.    Analyzing the expansion in the U.S. Trade deficit from 1982to 1985, the ministry said 24 pct was accounted for by exchangerates, 34 pct by differences in the income elasticity ofimports and exports and 39 pct by differences in economicgrowth rates. The figures do not tally to 100 pct because otherminor factors have been left out.    "One index of trade structure, the income elasticity ofexports and imports, shows that the U.S. Is more likely toexperience increases in imports, while Japan is structurallypredisposed to growth in exports," MITI said.    Structural adjustment is already underway in Japan, underthe impact of the strong yen, MITI said. Japanese companies arestepping up their imports and expanding capacity overseas.    Japanese consumer attitudes are also changing. The ministrycited a survey showing that price was now the number one factorin the purchase of imports from the U.S. And Western Europe,replacing design and brand reputations.    "The smooth adjustment of the economic structure calls formeasures to address the needs of affected firms," it said. "Wholeindustries have felt the pinch and employment is expected tosuffer."    "Sustained economic growth, led by domestic demand, willalso be an essential condition," the ministry said.    It said four structural factors have contributed to thegrowth of the U.S. Trade deficit in recent years -- a declinein U.S. Industrial competitiveness, insufficient productivecapacity, an increase in foreign procurement by U.S. Companiesand short-sighted U.S. Management attitudes.    "While (U.S.) exports have picked up somewhat with thedollar's fall in value, no marked improvements have appeared inthe import picture," MITI said. REUTER
JAPAN STILL WANTS SPECULATIVE DLR DEALS LIMITED The Finance Ministry is still askingfinancial institutions to limit speculative dollar dealings,Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told reporters.    He was responding to rumours in the New York currencymarket overnight that the Ministry was reducing its pressure oninstitutions to refrain from excessively speculative dollardealings. REUTER
FED DATA SUGGEST NO CHANGE IN MONETARY POLICY New U.S. Banking data suggest theFederal Reserve is guiding monetary policy along a steady pathand is not signalling any imminent change of course, economistssaid.    But they also said that if money supply growth remainsweak, as this week's unexpected eight billion dlr M-1 declinesuggests it may, this could influence the Fed to loosen itscredit reins and move toward a more accommodative monetarypolicy.    A Reuter survey of 17 money market economists produced aforecast of a 600 mln dlr M-1 decline for the week ended June8, with estimates ranging from a gain of one billion dlrs to adecline of four billion. Instead, M-1 fell eight billion dlrsto 745.7 billion dlrs at a seasonally adjusted annual rate.    Coming on the heels of a 4.3 billion decrease in M-1 forthe week ended June 1, this means the nation's money supply hasfallen more than 12 billion dlrs in the past two weeks,economists said.    "M-1 has hit an air pocket of weakness," said Bill Sullivanof Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.    While M-1 may have lost its significance as an indicator ofeconomic growth, Sullivan said Fed officials might be concernedthe latest drop in M-1 means another month of sluggish growthin the broader monetary aggregates, M-2 and M-3, which are seenas better gauges of economic growth.    Latest monthly M-2 and M-3 data showed that as of May, bothmeasures were growing at rates below the bottom of the Fed's5-1/2 to 8-1/2 pct target ranges.    If money growth does not accelerate, Fed officials,concerned that this indicates economic growth is flagging,could turn toward easier monetary policy, economists said.    "Does this mean that the Fed abandons its current openmarket position? No," Sullivan said. "But does this mean the endof tightening for the time being? Definitely yes."    Economists said average adjusted discount window borrowingsof 385 mln dlrs for the latest two-week bank statement periodwere lower than they had expected. Most believed the Fed hadtargetted a two-week borrowings average of around 500 mln dlrs.    But they said that if it had not been for a large one-daynet miss in the Fed's reserve projections, the higherborrowings target would probably have been reached.    A drop in May U.S. Housing starts and continued weakness inauto sales show key sectors of the U.S. Economy are lagging,while a recent modest 0.3 pct gain in May producer prices hashelped dispel inflation fears, Slifer said.    "If this continues, we can entertain the notion of Fedeasing at some point," he said.    Other economists said the Fed would probably pay littleattention to weak money supply growth. "It has been a number ofyears since M-1 has given good signs of what's going on in theeconomy," one said. "I don't think M-1 shows that the economy isfalling apart and the Fed should ease."    Economists agreed a stable dollar will continue to be aprerequisite for any move by the Fed toward easier monetarypolicy.    They said the Fed is reluctant to lower short-term ratesfor fear this would spur expectations of a weaker dollar andhigher inflation which would push up long-term yields and chokeoff econmomic growth.    But Sullivan said the dollar has been steady since lateApril. "The Fed has to determine if this represents afundamental change for the dollar. If it does, then this givesthem more room to ease," he said. REUTER
JAPAN PANEL URGES WORLD ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENTS Japan could avoid a sharp rise in thevalue of the yen against the dollar if Japan, the U.S. Andother nations succeeded in restructuring their economies, anadvisory panel to the government's Economic Planning Agency(EPA) said.    The advisory body said in its report that the yen wouldsoar against the dollar if structural adjustments on a globalbasis were delayed.    An EPA official told Reuters the dollar could fall toslightly below 100 yen by 1993 if Japan and the U.S. Failed torestructure their economies.    The dollar's fall without structural adjustments would cutJapan's current account surplus to two pct of gross nationalproduct (GNP) in 1993, the report said. It said such a changewould slow real GNP growth to an average of two pct annuallyduring the seven-year period to 1993.    If the two nations restructured their economies, the dollarwould remain stable in real terms, while reducing Japan'scurrent-account surplus to 2.1 pct of GNP in 1993. Thisscenario put Japan's GNP growth at 3.5 pct a year.    It forecast real growth of three pct for the world economyand four pct for Japan by 2,000 if the adjustments were made. REUTER
Dollar opens sharply higher in Tokyo at 143.55 yen (Monday close Chase Manhattan Corp (CMB)president Thomas Labrecque said the sharp decline in the stockmarket was not justified by economic conditions and there was aneed for perspective by investors on fundamental economicconditions.    "If we are right about the fundamentals, this thing shouldsettle down," Labrecque said at a news conference at theAmerican Bankers Associatioon annual convention here.    Labrecque also said the stock market drop could cause U.S.monetary officials to ease credit policies.    Inflation fears are exaggerated and Chase still believesinflation will not rise much beyond five percent this year,Labrecque said.   He said strong economic conditions would permit growth tocontinue well into 1988.    "I don't think the stock market will cause a recession,"Labrecque said.    He said he could not estimate what the impact on Chase fromthe stock market fall would be. Chase's stock price, however,dropped 23 pct, but other money center banks suffered evensharper losses.    Referring to the banking industry, he said: "We're talkingabout one day."    "These are strong institutions," he said. Labrecque said hedid not think the Federal Reserve Board would tighten monetarypolicy in view of the stock market's behavior.    "If there is a bias I expect it would be a little bit theother way," he said. Labrecque said the high U.S. budget deficitwas not the single most important factor behind the market'sworries.    He called for closer cooperation in economic policy by theUnited States, West Germany, Japan and Britain. Reuter
BAKER/STOLTENBERG MEETING SOOTHES MARKETS News of a meeting between U.S. TreasurySecretary James Baker and West German Finance Minister GerhardStoltenberg on Monday soothed currency markets, allowing thedollar to recoup much of the day's losses, dealers said.    News of the meeting, which took place in Frankfurt in greatsecrecy, came after the dollar fell sharply on criticism byBaker of West German monetary policy, which had provoked fearsthat the Louvre pact on currency stability was in jeopardy.    The dollar reacted immediately to the news, rising over twopfennigs in after hours New York trading, dealers there said.    The announcement of the meeting, also attended byBundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl, was made simultaneouslyin Bonn and Washington, timed for after the closure of New Yorkmarkets.    Baker, Stoltenberg and Poehl agreed to pursue the policiesaccepted under the February Louvre accord, a finance ministryspokesman in Bonn said.    The dollar rose to 1.7970/90 marks from New York's close of1.7730/40. It had closed there on Friday at 1.7975/85 marks.    The dollar had tumbled nearly three pfennigs as the marketreacted to Baker's criticism of rising West German interestrates, and stock markets crashed worldwide. Baker had said thatWest Germany was apparently breaching the Louvre accord.    Under the accord, leading industrial democracies pledged tocoordinate economic policies to foster currency stability, withthe surplus countries, West Germany and Japan, stimulatingtheir economies and the U.S. promising to cut its budgetdeficit.    West German government sources said rising West Germanmoney market rates could not be seen as a breach of the Louvrepact. They were rather a direct reaction to higher interestrates in the United States. U.S. Bond yields have been risingsince May on inflationary fears and in early September the Fedraised the discount rate to 6.00 pct from 5.50.    German yields have also risen over this period, but lessmarkedly, and since late September the Bundesbank has nudged upshort-term rates by changing the terms on its securityrepurchase pacts, its principal instrument for steering themoney market.    The allocation rate on the last facility was 3.85 pct,compared with 3.60 pct. This was partly due to West Germany'sinability to uncouple itself from U.S. interest rate trends,but also reflected concern among monetary conservatives in theBundesbank central bank council about excessive monetarygrowth, which raised fears of domestically produced inflation,bank economists said.    This monetary tightening reflected a switch from thepragmatic line pursued by Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehlsince early this year to stabilise the mark externally, to themore cautious approach of Vice President Helmut Schlesinger.    In an apparent gesture to Baker, coinciding with his visit,the Bundesbank repeatedly added money market liquidity thismorning. Dealers said this was clearly a move to appease U.S.anger over the most recent West German interest rate rises.    "They (the Bundesbank) just don't want to come too muchunder American fire," said Chris Zwermann, currency adviser atSwiss Bank Corp here.    "It seems to me that this is the Bundesbank beating quite asignificant retreat from its position," added Giles Keating,economist at Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd in London.    The significance that retreat will emerge from the terms ofthe Bundesbank's next tender for a securities repurchase pacton Tuesday, and its result on Wednesday, money marketeconomists said.    Today's injection of liquidity shows that the Bundesbankdoes not want a further strong rise in the tender allocationrate, which is likely to turn out at between 3.80 and 3.90 pct,little changed from the 3.85 pct on the last facility.    The Bundesbank and Finance Ministry had given no indicationthat the meeting would take place, although the FinanceMinistry spokesman said it had been arranged last week.    Earlier on Monday the Finance Ministry spokesman, asked tocomment on the apparent U.S.-German clash over the Louvreaccord, went no further than quoting Stoltenberg as saying heassumed monetary cooperation would continue.    The spokesman said he believed Baker had already left WestGermany for Sweden on Monday. This week he is also due to visitDenmark and Belgium. Reuter
FED'S JOHNSON WARNS AGAINST LOWER DOLLAR Federal Reserve Board Vice-ChairmanManuel Johnson cautioned against seeking "quick-fix solutions" topersistent U.S. trade and federal budget deficits.    In particular, he told an American Stock Exchangeconference, a decline in the dollar below current levels wouldexacerbate financial market conditions.    "Trying to artificially depress the dollar severely belowcurrent levels ... would exacerbate financial market conditionsand lead to further potential for financial problems."    Nowhere, Johnson said, are Fed officials hearing that U.S.businesses cannot compete at current exchange rates.    He acknowledged the U.S. trade deficit was persistingdespite a decline in the dollar's value of 40 to 50 pct in thepast two years.    But the deficit is improving in volume terms and will soonbegin showing improvement.    "The stage I think is being set for a healthy, constructiveexpansion without inflationary instability," he said. Reuter
LOUVRE ACCORD STILL IN EFFECT, JAPAN OFFICIAL SAYS The Group of Seven (G-7) industrial nationsstill comply with last February's Louvre accord to stabilizecurrencies, a senior Bank of Japan official said.    And U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker's remarks at theweekend indicating the need to revise it do not herald a lowerrange for the dollar, other senior officials from the Bank ofJapan and Finance Ministry agreed in interviews.    "The exchange market is apparently reacting too much, andanyone who sold the dollar on the Baker comment will regret itlater on," the Bank of Japan official told Reuters.    The Bank official said Baker did not mean to talk thedollar down. A lower dollar would harm the U.S. Economy, henoted.    A Finance Ministry official who was directly involved inmonetary talks with other nations also said the U.S. Wouldnever attempt to lower the reference range for the dollaragainst the mark or the yen.    The market assumes the dollar reference range to be between140-150 yen and between 1.70 and 1.90 marks.    The dollar closed in Tokyo today at 1.7730/35 marks and141.35 yen.    "Behind Baker's remark was U.S. Frustration over higherinterest rates abroad, especially in West Germany, but thisdoes not represent its readiness to scrap the basic frameworkof the Louvre accord," the Finance Ministry official said.    He said that on the contrary Baker wanted to avoid anyfurther rise in U.S. Interest rates because it would not onlyhurt the U.S. Economy but aggravate the Third World debtproblem.    Higher U.S. Interest rates would merely raise theirinterest payment burden and depress U.S. Stock and bond marketsfurther, the monetary officials said.    Both the ministry and central bank officials, who declinedto be named, noted the U.S. No longer wants to see a furtherdecline of the dollar because that could also fan inflationaryexpectations in the U.S.    "That's why Baker did not fail to add that the Louvreagreement is still operative," the senior ministry officialsaid.    Baker said in a U.S. Television interview on Sunday thatWashington would reexamine the Louvre accord because of WestGermany's increase in short-term interest rates.    The market at first interpreted this as indicating the U.S.Would be ready to scrap the Louvre accord and let the dollardecline further unless surplus countries, notably West Germany,try harder to stimulate their economies as pledged in theaccord, foreign exchange dealers said.    But the market on reflection also noted Baker's additionalstatement that "the Louvre agreement is still operative," andthis caused some dollar short-covering in Tokyo today, thedealers said.    Uncertainty, however, remained the flavour of the day inTokyo currency markets.    The Japanese monetary officials said Baker's undisguisedpressure on West Germany to refrain from guiding interest rateshigher may be part of a process of multilateral surveillance,or international economic policy coordination.    The G-7, comprising the U.S., Japan, West Germany, Britain,France, Italy and Canada, have agreed to monitor each other'seconomic policies and from time to time apply "peer pressure" topersuade others to change their policies to a desired course,they noted. "Without such a basic agreement of multilateralsurveillance, Baker would never have criticized the West Germanpolicy so openly," the ministry official said.    The U.S.-West German squabble over Bonn's monetary policyshould thus be regarded as a process of healthy policycoordination and not as any indication of a possible collapseof the Louvre agreement, the official said.    He also said Japan has not received any specific requestfrom the U.S. On its monetary policy, although its short-termmoney rates have been edging higher.    "This is because we, unlike the Germans, are not takingpolicy to guide interest rates higher, and the marginal raterise in recent days is primarily for seasonal reasons," headded. REUTER
TOKYO DEALERS SEE DOLLAR POISED TO BREACH 140 YEN Tokyo's foreign exchange market is watchingnervously to see if the U.S. Dollar will drop below thesignificant 140.00 yen level, dealers said.    "The 140 yen level is key for the dollar because it isconsidered to be the lower end of the reference range. If thecurrency breaks through this level, it may decline sharply,"said Hirozumi Tanaka, assistant general manager at Dai-ichiKangyo Bank Ltd's international treasury division.    The dollar was at 141.10 yen at midday against Fridaycloses of 142.35/45 in New York and 141.35 here.    The dollar opened at 140.95 yen and fell to a low of140.40. It was 1.7733/38 marks against 1.7975/85 in New Yorkand 1.8008/13 here on Friday, after an opening 1.7700/10.    The currency's decline was due to remarks on Sunday by U.S.Treasury Secretary James Baker, dealers said.    "The dollar fell over the weekend on increased bearishsentiment after Baker's comments," said Dai-ichi's Tanaka. Hesaid this stemmed from mounting concern that cooperation amongthe group of seven (G-7) industrial nations to implement theLouvre accord to stabilise currencies might be fraying.    The dollar's fall was also prompted by a record one-daydrop in the Dow Jones industrial average on Friday and weaknessin U.S. Bond prices, dealers said.    Baker said the Louvre accord was still operative but hestrongly criticised West German moves to raise key interestrates. Operators took Baker's comment to indicate impatiencewith some G-7 members for failing to stick to the Louvre accorddue to their fears of increasing inflation.    Rises in interest rates aimed at dampening inflationarypressures also slow domestic demand.    West Germany and Japan had both pledged at G-7 meetings toboost domestic demand to help narrow the huge U.S. Tradedeficit, Tanaka said.    U.S. August trade data showed the U.S. Deficit at a stillmassive 15.68 billion dlrs. But if West Germany raises interestrates, this would run counter to the pledge, he said.    "Operators are now waiting to see if the G-7 nationscoordinate dollar buying intervention," said Soichi Hirabayashi,deputy general manager of Fuju Bank Ltd's foreign exchangedepartment.    The target range set by the Louvre accord is generallyconsidered to be 140.00 to 160.00 yen, dealers said.    "The market is likely to try the 140 yen level in the nearfuture and at that time, if operators see the G-7 nationsfailing to coordinate intervention, they would see the Louvreaccord as abandoned and push the dollar down aggressively,"Hirabayashi said. He said the U.S. Currency could fall as lowas 135 yen soon. REUTER
