TURKISH CENTRAL BANK SETS LIRA/DOLLAR, DM RATES The Turkish Central Bank set aLira/Dollar rate for March 10 of 773.05/776.92 to the Dollar,down from the previous 769.60/773.45.    The Bank also set a Lira/Mark rate of 417.20/419.29 to theMark, up from the previous 419.15/421.25.
INDONESIAN RUPIAH SLIPS AGAINST MARK AND YEN The Indonesian rupiah has held steadysince its 31 pct devaluation against the dollar six months ago,but has slipped against the mark and to a lesser extent againstthe yen, according to central bank figures.    In the past month, the rupiah has fallen five pct againstthe yen. Today's middle rate per 100 yen was 1,129.78 against1,075.20 at end-February and 1,058.6 at devaluation inSeptember.    Bank Indonesia's quoted rate for the dollar, the maincurrency for Indonesia's oil and gas exports, was 1,644.0today, the same rate fixed at the time of devaluation.    The rate for the West German mark was 913.28 today, a sharpdrop from September when it was 786.06.    The British pound has risen to 2,657.93 against 2,429.83.   The value of the rupiah is set daily against a basket ofcurrencies by the central bank.    The rise in the value of the mark and the yen has hitIndonesia by increasing its debt servicing levels. Its totaldisbursed foreign debt is estimated by the World Bank at 37billion dlrs.    Japan is one of Indonesia's key trading partners, takinghalf its oil exports. REUTER
NO INTERVENTION, DOLLAR FIXED AT 1.8063 MARKS The Bundesbank did not intervene asthe dollar was fixed lower at 1.8063 marks after 1.8231 onFriday, dealers said.    Business calmed down after a hectic start, with Europeanoperators sidelined because of uncertainty about the short-termdirection of the dollar, dealers said. "At the moment, all theaction is taking place in New York and Tokyo," one said.    The U.S. Currency traded within a 145 basis point range inEurope, touching a low of 1.7940 and a high of 1.8085 marks.But it remained within a narrow 40 basis point span around1.8050 marks after the first hour of European trading.    Comments by Japanese officials and Bank of Japan dollarsupport had pushed it above 145 yen and 1.80 marks afterfalling as low as 144.50 and 1.7860 respectively in Tokyo. REUTER
BUNDESBANK HAS NOT INTERVENED TODAY, DEALERS The Bundesbank declined to comment onrumours in Tokyo that it was intervening heavily to support thedollar, but dealers here said they had not seen the Germancentral bank in the market all morning.    The dollar was quoted at around 1.8040 marks shortly aftermidday in nervous but quiet trading, up from its 1.7975/85opening.    Spreads against the mark remained around 10 basis points,with some banks quoting only five point spreads. Dealers saidspreads would widen and the dollar would move more sharply ifthe Bundesbank did intervene. REUTER
TURKISH CENTRAL BANK SETS LIRA/DOLLAR, DM RATES The Turkish Central Bank set alira/dollar rate for April 2 of 780.00/783.90 to the dollar,down from the previous 777.00/780.89. The Bank also set alira/mark rate of 429.15/431.30 to the mark, up from theprevious 430.50/432.65. REUTER
FINLAND REVISES CURRENCY BASKET The Bank of Finland said it has revisedthe weightings in its currency basket with effect from today.Weightings  match the respective country's share in Finland'sforeign trade.    Weights in percentages compared with former weights.    Dollar  9.0 (8.8)    Sterling 14.3 (13.8)    Swedish crown 20.4 (20.6)    Norwegian crown 5.2 (5.2)    Danish crown 5.2 (5.3)    German mark 19.3 (19.6)REUTER^M
TURKISH CENTRAL BANK SETS LIRA/DOLLAR, DM RATES Turkey's Central Bank set a lira/dollarrate for April 3 of 782.50/786.41 to the dollar, down from780.00/783.90. It set a lira/D-mark rate of 428.30/430.44 tothe mark, up from 429.15/431.30. REUTER
CITIBANK SELLS MARK/AUSTRALIAN DLR WARRANTS Citicorp said that on behalf of itsCitibank N.A. Subsidiary, it is issuing 100,000 naked currencywarrants priced at 67-1/2 marks each to purchase Australiandlrs for marks at a rate of 1.1825 marks per Australian dlr.    The current rate is 1.2850 marks per Australian dlr. Eachwarrant is for a nominal amount of 1,000 marks and the minimumpurchase will be for 100 warrants.    The warrants expire on January 8, 1988. Payment is due onApril 8 and the warrants will be listed on the Luxembourg StockExchange. REUTER
TURKISH CENTRAL BANK SETS LIRA/DOLLAR, DM RATES Turkey's Central Bank set a lira/dollarrate for April 6 of 781.95/785.86 to the dollar, up from782.50/786.41. It set a lira/D-mark rate of 430.15/432.30 tothe mark, down from 428.30/430.44. REUTER
LOWER MARK RATE SPECULATION NOT SHARED IN GERMANY Speculation abroad that theBundesbank will steer money market rates lower, opening thefor interest rate cuts around Europe, is not shared by manyeconomists and money market dealers within Germany.    Speculation has developed that the Bundesbank wouldengineer lower rates to take pressure off the dollar/mark.    A strong rise in U.S. Market rates this month, promptingspeculation the Fed would raise its 5-1/2 pct discount rate,has raised the question whether Germany and Japan would alsobroaden interest rate differentials to support the dollar.    The U.S.-Japanese trade dispute is the key to the interestrate outlook, money market dealers in Paris said.    Talks this week between Japanese Prime Minister YasuhiroNakasone and President Reagan, if successful, could takepressure off the dollar, dealers and economists said.    Short term interest rates would be likely to ease if thetrade dispute is solved and the dollar steadies, they said.    But if no solution is found, the Paris dealers said, arenewed dollar fall would put strains on the mark/French francrate and force the Bank of France to raise short-term rates.    The three-month U.S. Treasury bill rate rose to six pctthis week from 5.6 pct at the start of April, and the yield onthe 30-year benchmark treasury bonds rose this week in Tokyo toa 14-month high of 8.86 pct from 7.66 pct in late March.    The dollar stabilized today just below 1.80 marks and above140 yen, underpinned by higher U.S. Rates and the Fed discountrate speculation.    But most dealers expect it to weaken further, which wouldput pressure on the Bundesbank to ease interest rates.    Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said yesterdaythe U.S. Had requested Japan to cut short-term interest rates.    The Bank of Japan was making efforts to do this, he said,adding the U.S. Had not asked for a cut in Japan's 2.5 pctdiscount rate, a move which Bank of Japan Governor SatoshiSumita said was not under consideration.    A call for a German move came yesterday from Dutch centralbank president Wim Duisenberg, who said the Dutch central bankfavoured a cut in West German interest rates and would followsuit if it happened.    Citibank AG said in its April report that another expectedphase of dollar weakness would prompt the Bundesbank to cut keymoney market rates in the next three to six months.    The Bundesbank has set a fixed rate of 3.80 pct onrepurchase pacts since February, with call money trading around3.70 pct for much of April.    Phillips and Drew senior European economist Richard Reidsaid the Bundesbank would allow interest rates to ease further,either with a lower fixed rate tender, or a tender by interestrate, allowing the market to set the rate.    "I'm fairly confident we'll see lower rates," he said.    Reid said taking 30 basis points off the repurchase ratewould have little impact on the German economy or fundamentalexchange rates, but could change market currency perceptions.    "A cut in German rates wouldn't be bad for the dollar, but Ithink its effect would be limited in duration unless it wasaccompanied by other measures elsewhere," he said.    Money market dealers here noted the speculation abroad thatthe Bundesbank would push down repurchase rates, but said theBundesbank had little reason to cut rates further at themoment, despite the liquid market seen for most of this month.    The dealers said the Bundesbank was likely to move to aninterest rate tender for its repurchase pacts next month. Thatshould not be seen as a sign of easing monetary policy however,they said.    The Bundesbank would merely be experimenting with interestrate tenders, following the introduction of a new system tospeed up the tender process at the start of April, they said.    Reinhard Pohl, head of the monetary policy section at theDIW economic research institute in West Berlin, said theBundesbank would probably not cut rates on repurchase pacts.    "I don't think that if they cut the repurchase rate a littleit would stop a wave of (currency) speculation," he said. But asharp and sudden deterioration in the dollar could force theBundesbank to take some action, he said.    Pohl said the Bundesbank was concerned that a cut ininterest rates would accelerate excessive monetary growth.    Some Bundesbank officials have argued recently that themonetary overshoot was due to strong currency inflows ratherthan credit growth, and therefore a more appropriate responseto excessive money supply growth would be to cut rates, to makethe mark and mark investments less attractive.    Pohl said the Bundesbank was hoping that domestic investorswould switch funds parked in liquid short-term accounts, whichhave swollen central bank money stock, into securities, whichwould take them out of the Bundesbank's key monetary measure.    A cut in interest rates at this stage however would leadinvestors to assume that rates had bottomed out and the nextmove would be upwards. They would therefore hold off buyingbonds, leaving central bank money stock swollen.    There are so far no signs that German investors areswitching funds into long term securities as the Bundesbankhopes they will, Berliner Handels- und Frankfurter Bankeconomist Hermann Remsperger said.    But Phillips and Drew's Reid said prospects of lower ratesand a strong currency would attract foreign investors intoGerman bonds, which would in turn attract domestic investors.    Werner Rein, chief economist at Union Bank of Switzerlandin Zurich, said he thought it likely that interest rates wouldcontinue to drift lower in many European countries.    "The scope for lower rates is probably greatest in Britainbut more limited in West Germany, where we could see someconsolidation," he said. Switzerland could be forced to matchany cut in German rates to prevent the franc rising furtheragainst the mark, he said.    Currency dealers in London said another half-point cut inU.K. Bank base rates was likely in the next few weeks as thepound had shrugged off yesterday's cuts and was still rising. REUTER
DUTCH OFFICIAL RATE CUT SEEN STILL LIKELY A cut of about half a percentage pointin Dutch official interest rates is still in prospect, althougheconomists said the timing would depend on Bundesbank moves.    Speculation has been rife that the Dutch Central Bank,encouraged by a strong guilder/mark relationship and widepremiums for Dutch money and capital market rates over German,might lower rates without the Bundesbank moving first.    Last month, the Central Bank lowered its special advancesrate to 5.1 pct from 5.25 pct after the Bundesbank dropped itsrepurchase tender rate to 3.55 pct from 3.8 pct.    That rate has remained in force, just holding above thefive pct official secured loans rate which governs commercialbank borrowings.    Given a strong guilder, a further fall in the West Germanrepo rate would trigger a lower special advances tariff,forcing an official Dutch rate cut, analysts said.    In February, when the Bundesbank cut its discount rate tothree pct from 3.5 pct, the Central Bank only lowered moneymarket rates and removed a surcharge over the secured loansrate on lending under its three month credit quota.    Since then, however, both the Central Bank and FinanceMinistry have made it clear they favour lower official rates.    In April, Central Bank President Wim Duisenberg said hewould follow any Bundesbank cut, and last week the FinanceMinistry expressed satisfaction when it raised 2.25 billionguilders with a six pct coupon state loan priced at 100.10 pctfor an effective yield of 5.98 pct, the lowest since 1965.    Technically, analysts said, there has to be a differencebetween the secured loans rate which applies to lending underthe credit quota, and the tariff on special advances which addextra liquidity to the money market.    Bank economists and dealers said a West German move tofurther lower the rate on securities repurchase pacts wouldresult in the Central Bank easing the special advance rate,provided the guilder/mark relationship permitted.    The Central Bank aims to keep the guilder stable around itsparity value within the European Monetary System of 112.673guilders per 100 marks.    Today, foreign exchange buying pushed the mark up 10guilder cents to 112.705 guilders per 100 at the fix, a levelthat would not permit a change in the interest ratedifferential between West Germany and the Netherlands, dealerssaid.    An economist at ABN Bank said he expected West German andDutch interest rates to ease in the short term. However, hesaid new wage agreements in West Germany had raised inflationexpectations which would put upward pressure on interest ratesin the longer term.    In the Netherlands, the inflation outlook for 1987 is nil,or even negative, while the latest official economic forecastspoint to a falling rate of economic growth.    "It will depend on the outcome of collective wage agreementnegotiations here whether there could be cost push inflation,"the ABN economist said.    He said Dutch money supply growth, which ran at 3.4 pct inJanuary, could also contribute to some inflation.    At Amro Bank, a leading analyst said inflation could run totwo pct next year. The bank expects Dutch capital market rates,currently averaging around 6.1 pct, to stop easing in thesecond half of this year and stabilize around 5.6 pct.    Analysts said an official rate cut could trigger a buyingspree on the bond market which would bring yields down,probably only temporarily, while money rates could fall belowfive pct.    Currently, all periods are traded at 5.12 to 5.25 pct inthe money market. REUTER
LEUTWILER WANTS FIRMER MARK AGAINST SFR Fritz Leutwiler, chairman ofBBC AG Brown Boveri und Cie and a former Swiss National Bankpresident, urged the National Bank to declare its intent ofachieving a rising rate for the mark against the Swiss franc.    In a speech to shareholders, Leutwiler said, "A graduallyrising rate for the mark in relation to the franc would bedesirable from the standpoint of industrial exports and withregard to sustaining Swiss industry."    "Simply an appropriate declaration of intent by our bank ofissue (Swiss National Bank) could have a positive effect," hesaid.    Leutwiler, who served 10 years as head of the Swiss centralbank, said such a step would not contradict the National Bank'starget of monetary stability.    "Bringing the franc close to the mark would, of course, haveto be done step by step under the watchful eye of monetarypolicy," he told shareholders. "Realistically there is in fact nopersuasive reason why the German currency is quoted almost 20pct lower than the Swiss."    A National Bank spokesman said the relation of the mark andSwiss franc was an example of stable currency parities over along period of time.    The spokesman said exchange rates were made by the market,not the central bank, and it would be impossible to influenceindividual parities separately.    Leutwiler said the Swiss National Bank could not supportthe value of the dollar, even in conjunction with other centralbanks, without putting monetary stability in jeopardy.    "I would be the last to recommend that. The key to astronger dollar lies in the United States itself," Leutwilersaid. REUTER
LOUVRE ACCORD STILL IN EFFECT, JAPAN OFFICIAL SAYS The Group of Seven (G-7) industrial nationsstill comply with last February's Louvre accord to stabilizecurrencies, a senior Bank of Japan official said.    And U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker's remarks at theweekend indicating the need to revise it do not herald a lowerrange for the dollar, other senior officials from the Bank ofJapan and Finance Ministry agreed in interviews.    "The exchange market is apparently reacting too much, andanyone who sold the dollar on the Baker comment will regret itlater on," the Bank of Japan official told Reuters.    The Bank official said Baker did not mean to talk thedollar down. A lower dollar would harm the U.S. Economy, henoted.    A Finance Ministry official who was directly involved inmonetary talks with other nations also said the U.S. Wouldnever attempt to lower the reference range for the dollaragainst the mark or the yen.    The market assumes the dollar reference range to be between140-150 yen and between 1.70 and 1.90 marks.    The dollar closed in Tokyo today at 1.7730/35 marks and141.35 yen.    "Behind Baker's remark was U.S. Frustration over higherinterest rates abroad, especially in West Germany, but thisdoes not represent its readiness to scrap the basic frameworkof the Louvre accord," the Finance Ministry official said.    He said that on the contrary Baker wanted to avoid anyfurther rise in U.S. Interest rates because it would not onlyhurt the U.S. Economy but aggravate the Third World debtproblem.    Higher U.S. Interest rates would merely raise theirinterest payment burden and depress U.S. Stock and bond marketsfurther, the monetary officials said.    Both the ministry and central bank officials, who declinedto be named, noted the U.S. No longer wants to see a furtherdecline of the dollar because that could also fan inflationaryexpectations in the U.S.    "That's why Baker did not fail to add that the Louvreagreement is still operative," the senior ministry officialsaid.    Baker said in a U.S. Television interview on Sunday thatWashington would reexamine the Louvre accord because of WestGermany's increase in short-term interest rates.    The market at first interpreted this as indicating the U.S.Would be ready to scrap the Louvre accord and let the dollardecline further unless surplus countries, notably West Germany,try harder to stimulate their economies as pledged in theaccord, foreign exchange dealers said.    But the market on reflection also noted Baker's additionalstatement that "the Louvre agreement is still operative," andthis caused some dollar short-covering in Tokyo today, thedealers said.    Uncertainty, however, remained the flavour of the day inTokyo currency markets.    The Japanese monetary officials said Baker's undisguisedpressure on West Germany to refrain from guiding interest rateshigher may be part of a process of multilateral surveillance,or international economic policy coordination.    The G-7, comprising the U.S., Japan, West Germany, Britain,France, Italy and Canada, have agreed to monitor each other'seconomic policies and from time to time apply "peer pressure" topersuade others to change their policies to a desired course,they noted. "Without such a basic agreement of multilateralsurveillance, Baker would never have criticized the West Germanpolicy so openly," the ministry official said.    The U.S.-West German squabble over Bonn's monetary policyshould thus be regarded as a process of healthy policycoordination and not as any indication of a possible collapseof the Louvre agreement, the official said.    He also said Japan has not received any specific requestfrom the U.S. On its monetary policy, although its short-termmoney rates have been edging higher.    "This is because we, unlike the Germans, are not takingpolicy to guide interest rates higher, and the marginal raterise in recent days is primarily for seasonal reasons," headded. REUTER
