NYMEX TO SUBMIT PROPANE PROPOSAL TO CFTC The New York Mercantile Exchange expectsto submit a propane futures contract for federal regulatoryapproval within a few days, according to an exchangespokeswoman.    As previously announced, the Board of Governors of theexchange approved the contract last month. The exchange willnow submit the contract to the Commodity Futures TradingCommission, according to the spokeswoman.    Contract specifications will resemble those of heating oiland gasoline futures. The contract size will be 1,000 barrels,or 42,000 U.S. gallons.    The minimum price fluctuation for the propane futurescontract will be  0.01 cent per gallon, or 4.20 dlrs a barrel,according to the exchange.    The maximum daily price limit will be two cts a gallon onall contracts except spot. Trading will terminate on the lastbusiness day of the month preceding the delivery month.    The exchange said delivery will be F.O.B from the seller'spipeline, storage, or fractionation facility in Mont Belvieu,Texas, which has a direct pipeline access to the Texas EasternTransmission Pipeline (TET) in Mont Beliview.    Delivery method will be by in-line or in-well transfer,inter-facility transfer or pumpover, or book transfer andcannot be done earlier than the tenth calendar day of thedelivery month, according to the exchange. Deliveries must becompleted no later than two business days prior to the end ofthe delivery month.    Buyers taking delivery of the propane must pay the sellerby certified check and the deadline for payment is 1200 EST(noon) of the second business day following receipt of thepropane. Reuter
EC BACKS NEW MOVE TO ENCOURAGE UNLEADED GASOLINE The EC Executive Commission has backeda plan to allow member countries to ban regular leaded gasolinein a move designed to encourage use of unleaded fuel.    It said in a statement it backed a proposal to allow ECstates to ban sales of regular grade gasoline containing leadat six months notice. The proposal, which needs approval by ECministers, would not force any member state to impose the ban."It's an option, not an obligation," a spokesman said.    But the Commission said imposing the ban would encouragethe use of unleaded fuel, as well as making it easier for gasstations by cutting the number of types of gasoline they had tostock. Reuter
TEXAS EASTERN <TET> BUYS PETROLEUM TERMINAL Texas Eastern Corp said it has completedthe purchase of an idle petroleum products terminal near NorrisCity, Ill., from <Growmark Inc> for undisclosed terms and willreopen it in September after remodeling.    The company said the terminal will handle leaded andunleaded regular gasolines, number two fuel oil, ethanol andnatural gasoline. Reuter
EIA SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS OFF 3.4 MLN BBLS, GASOLINE OFF 100,000, CRUDE UP Chronar Corp said it received atotal of 20 mln dlrs through the completion of a privateplacement of its stock, long-term debt and associated warrantswith the Sheet Metal Workers' National Pension Fund and anaffiliate of <Harbert Corp>.    It also said the fund and Harbert Solar Inc, the affiliate,now own about 16 pct of Chronar's common.    Chronar also said it expects to report a loss for the yearof about 4.5 mln dlrs on sales of about 12 mln dlrs comparedwith a loss of 513,153 dlrs on revenues of 10 mln dlrs in 1985. Reuter
RECENT U.S. OIL DEMAND UP 2.1 PCT FROM YEAR AGO U.S. oil demand as measured byproducts supplied rose 2.1 pct in the four weeks ended February27 to 16.39 mln barrels per day (bpd) from 16.05 mln in thesame period a year ago, the Energy Information Administration(EIA) said.    In its weekly petroleum status report, the EnergyDepartment agency said distillate demand was down 2.1 pct inthe period to 3.37 mln bpd from 3.44 mln a year earlier.    Gasoline demand averaged 6.60 mln bpd, up 2.4 pct from 6.44mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.47 mln bpd, up1.9 pct from 1.44 mln, the EIA said.    Domestic crude oil production was estimated at 8.38 mlnbpd, down 8.7 pct from 9.18 mln a year ago, and gross dailycrude imports (excluding those for the SPR) averaged 4.11 mlnbpd, up 36.9 pct from three mln, the EIA said.    Refinery crude runs in the four weeks were 12.21 mln bpd,up 2.2 pct from 12 mln a year earlier, it said.    Year-to-date figures will not become available until March26 when EIA's Petroleum Supply Monthly data for January 1987becomes available, the agency said. Reuter
BRAZIL STRIKES CAUSE GOVERNMENT MAJOR PROBLEMS Strikes by Brazil's 40,000seamen and by petrol station owners in four states are causingmajor headaches to a government already wrestling with a debtcrisis.    A week ago seamen began their first national strike for 25years and union leaders say they have seriously affectedBrazilian exports by making idle 160 ships.    On February 20 the Brazilian government suspended interestpayments on part of its huge foreign debt following a sharpdeterioration in its trade balance.    Today the government faced a fresh problem, when mostpetrol station owners in Sao Paulo, the country's industrialheartland, and in three other states closed down to press forhigher fuel prices.    There were fears that the combination of the two stoppagescould lead to a serious fuel shortage.    The seamen's leaders say their strike has halted 48 of the72 ships belonging to the state oil company Petrobras.    The Jornal do Brasil newspaper, in an editorial todayentitled "Dangerous Confrontation," said: "From the economicpoint of view the seamen's strike carries an alarming cost,with grave consequences for the supply situation and for thecountry's external trade."    The seamen are seeking a 275 pct pay rise and have rejectedoffers of up to 100 pct.    Later today the Higher Labour Tribunal in Brasilia is dueto rule on whether the seamen's strike is legal. But a seniorofficial of the National Merchant Marine Union, Jorge Luis LeaoFranco, told Reuters that the strike would continue regardlessof the tribunal's ruling.    Labour unrest has worsened in Brazil following the collapseover the last few months of the government's Cruzado Plan pricefreeze. Prices have been rising at about 15 pct a month. Notonly workers but also businessmen are restive. Petrol stationowners said many garages had closed indefinitely today in SaoPaulo, Parana, Mato Grosso and Mato Grosso do Sul.    Television reports said that in the Parana state capital ofCuritiba petrol stations were only supplying fuel forexceptional cases such as ambulances and funeral processions.    Brazilian garage owners want to be allowed to raise theirprofits on alcohol fuel and petrol sales to 1.26 cruzados (sixU.S. Cents) a litre from 0.56 cruzados (about 2.5 cents).    Queues formed at petrol stations in Sao Paulo late lastnight as motorists filled up their tanks while they stillcould.    Political sources said the government of President JoseSarney was closely following the strikes and the overall fuelsupply situation. Reuter
DOLE MULLS BILL TO EXTEND ETHANOL TAX EXEMPTION U.S. Senate Republican leader RobertDole (R-Kan.) said he and a group of Republican lawmakers areconsidering introducing legislation to extend the ethanol taxexemption through the year 2000.    Dole, addressing the National Corn Growers Associationboard, said the proposal was under consideration by a ruraltask force of Republican members of Congress and governors.    Gasoline containing at least 10 pct ethanol now receives asix cents per gallon exemption from a nine cent federal excisetax. The exemption is to expire the end of 1992.    Ethanol is produced primarily by a few large agribusinessfirms including Archer Daniels Midland (ADM) and A.E. Staley.The tax exemption has helped bolster ethanol production despitea sharp drop in the prices of competing crude oil. Reuter
RECENT U.S. OIL DEMAND UP 1.9 PCT FROM YEAR AGO U.S. oil demand as measured byproducts supplied rose 1.9 pct in the four weeks ended Marchsix to 16.39 mln barrels per day from 16.08 mln in the sameperiod a year ago, the Energy Information Administration (EIA)said.    In its weekly petroleum status report, the EnergyDepartment agency said distillate demand was down 2.2 pct inthe period to 3.33 mln bpd from 3.40 mln a year earlier.    Gasoline demand averaged 6.75 mln bpd, up 3.3 pct from 6.53mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.40 mln bpd, off2.7 pct from 1.43 mln, the EIA said.    Domestic crude oil production was estimated at 8.38 mlnbpd, down 8.5 pct from 9.15 mln a year ago, and gross dailycrude imports (excluding those for the SPR) averaged 3.67 mlnbpd, up 23 pct from 2.97 mln, the EIA said.    Refinery crude runs in the four weeks were 12.05 mln bpd,up 1.5 pct from 11.87 mln a year earlier, it said.    Year-to-date figures will not become available until March26 when EIA's Petroleum Supply Monthly data for January 1987becomes available, the agency said. Reuter
WRIGHT SAYS A GAS TAX AN OPTION TO CUT DEFICIT House Speaker Jim Wright said agasoline tax is one option to finding a way to reduce thedeficit, but told reporters in response to a question he willnot try to dictate a solution to the debt problem.    Wright has made suggestions for raising taxes about 20billion dlrs as part of a budget plan to reduce the deficit.Tax proposals are being given consideration by members of theHouse Budget Committee, but the details of any tax increasewould be made by the tax writing House ways and MeansCommittee. Reuter
U.S. PRODUCER ENERGY PRICES RISE IN FEBRUARY Prices of wholesale finished energygoods in the U.S. rose 4.0 pct in February after a 9.8 pct risein January, the Labor Department said.    The Producer Price Index for finished energy goods fell by20.9 pct in the past 12 months.    Heating oil prices rose 3.0 pct in February after a 18.0pct rise in January, the department said.    Gasoline prices rose by 5.5 pct last month after a 15.7pct January rise, the department said. Natural gas prices rose1.8 pct after a 4.2 pct rise in January.    Crude oil prices rose 4.4 pct in February, after a 19.7 pctJanuary rise and were off 21.3 pct from the year ago level. Reuter
U.S. PRODUCER ENERGY PRICES RISE IN FEBRUARY Prices of wholesale finished energygoods in the United States were up in February, rising by 4.0pct after a 9.8 pct rise in January, the Labor Department said.    The Producer Price Index for finished energy goods hasfallen 20.9 pct in the past 12 months.    Heating oil prices rose 3.0 pct in February after a 18.0pct rise in January, the department said.    Gasoline prices rose by 5.5 pct last month after a 15.7pct January rise, the department said. Natural gas prices rose1.8 pct after a 4.2 pct rise in January.    Energy goods at the intermediate stage of processing rose2.7 pct in February after rising 3.5 pct in January and weredown 16.1 pct over the past 12 months, the Labor Departmentsaid.    Prices for crude energy goods, such as crude oil, coal andgas at the wellhead, rose 2.6 pct last month after a 10.0 pctJanuary rise. They were down 11.6 pct from February 1986, thedepartment said.     At the intermediate stage, liquefied petroleum gas pricesrose 10.1 pct last month after a 5.0 pct January rise and were41.0 pct below prices a year earlier, the department said.    Residual fuel prices rose 16.7 pct in February after a 13.4pct rise a month earlier and were off 17.4 pct in 12 months.    Electric power prices fell 0.3 pct last month, after a 1.3pct January decline, and were down 3.6 pct from a year ago.    Crude oil prices rose 4.4 pct in February, after a 19.7 pctJanuary rise and were off 21.3 pct from the year ago level.    Prices of natural gas at the wellhead rose 1.8 pct inFebruary after rising 4.2 pct a month earlier and were 14.8 pctlower than they were 12 months earlier, the department said.    Coal costs were down 0.3 pct last month after rising 0.4pct in January and were down 0.8 pct from a year ago. Reuter
ECUADOR ADOPTS AUSTERITY PROGRAM Ecuador announced an austerity programand a price freeze on key consumer goods as a result of lastweek's earthquake which killed at least 300 people.    Presidency Minister Patricio Quevedo said in a televisedaddress that the budget would be cut by five to 10 pct,government hiring would be frozen and salaries of topofficials, including the president and cabinet, would bereduced.    He also said a price freeze would be imposed on 20 basicconsumer items, mainly food staples, while the price of petrolwould rise by between 69 and 80 pct and bus fares would rise by20 pct. Petrol supplies would also be limited.    Information Ministry officials said the price freeze wasaimed at protecting poor Ecuadoreans from a wave ofspecualtion. Violators would be severely punished, according tothe price freeze order, signed by five cabinet ministers.    The items for which prices were frozen included rice,sugar, cooking oil, potatoes, salt, wheat flour, cigarettes,soft drinks, school supplies and several kinds of vegetables.    Ecuador's consumer price inflation was 23 pct in 1986.    The price of 92-octane petrol rises to 110 sucres a U.S.Gallon from 65 sucres. Eighty-octane petrol increases to 90sucres from 50. REUTER
EIA SAYS DISTILLATES OFF 7.6 MLN BBLS, GASOLINE OFF 3.4 MLN, CRUDE OFF East Rand Proprietary Mines Ltdsaid that barring any major disruption in production, itexpects 1987 gold output to top 10 tonnes after dropping to9.223 tonnes last year from 10.251 in 1985.    Chairman Clive Knobbs said in the annual report the minewas expected to mill a higher tonnage while capital expenditureduring 1987 will be around 118.5 mln rand.   The decline in gold production last year was due to a fourpct drop in tonnage milled and a seven pct decline in grade. Reuter
RECENT U.S. OIL DEMAND UP 2.3 PCT FROM YEAR AGO U.S. oil demand as measured byproducts supplied rose 2.3 pct in the four weeks ended March 13to 16.49 mln barrels per day (bpd) from 16.11 mln in the sameperiod a year ago, the Energy Information Administration (EIA)said.    In its weekly petroleum status report, the EnergyDepartment agency said distillate demand was up 2.9 pct in theperiod to 3.43 mln bpd from 3.33 mln a year earlier.    Gasoline demand averaged 6.93 mln bpd, up 4.0 pct from 6.67mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.31 mln bpd, off7.9 pct from 1.42 mln, the EIA said.    Domestic crude oil production was estimated at 8.36 mlnbpd, down 8.1 pct from 9.10 mln a year ago, and gross dailycrude imports (excluding those for the SPR) averaged 3.70 mlnbpd, up 24.8 pct from 2.96 mln, the EIA said.    Refinery crude runs in the four weeks were 11.92 mln bpd,up 1.0 pct from 11.80 mln a year earlier, it said.    Year-to-date figures will not become available until March26 when EIA's Petroleum Supply Monthly data for January 1987becomes available, the agency said. Reuter
U.S. ENERGY SECRETARY RULES OUT GASOLINE TAX Energy Secretary John Herringtonsaid he would rule out a tax on gasoline as one option to helpavert what his departmet has called the threat of increasedreliance on foreign oil in the coming years.    He said at a news conference that any recommendation hewould make would have to increase domestic production, notcause widespread economic hardship and have a minimal cost tothe U.S. taxpayer.    On the grounds of increasing production, he said, "I wouldrule out a gasoline tax."    Herrington also repeated he would rule out an oil importfee because of the widespread dislocation it would cause -- theloss of about 400,000 jobs nationwide due to higher oil pricesand a drop in the gross national product by about 32 billiondlrs.    He said an increased depletion allowance, to 27.5 pct, onnew and enhanced production of oil and natural gas would be acheap way to spur domestic production.    He estimated this cost at about 200 mln dlrs a year.    Herrington proposed the increased depletion allowance tothe White House Tuesday but the White House reaction was cool.    The White House said it would study the proposal, but wasgenerally oppposed to altering the national tax code, justpassed last year.    Herrington, asked his reaction to the White House reaction,said, "If I were the White House, I would be cool, too." Reuter
U.S. ENERGY CHIEF RULES OUT GASOLINE TAX AS WAY TO AVERT PENDING OI North Carolina Savings and LoanAssociation elected J. Graham Harwood its chairman, and R.Martin Hall its president and chief operating officer.    The company said the chairman's post has been vacant twoand a half years.    It also said Harwood, who was president, would retain hischief executive officer's position. Reuter
SONEX RESEARCH <SONX> CUSTOM AUTO USES MORE GAS Sonex Research Inc said itsmodified 1986 British Ford Escort passed the European emissionstest, but reported the engine consumed 35 pct more fuel thanthe stock engine.    Sonex said its engine is not equipped with a catalyticconverter and does not use exhaust gas recirculation or anemission air pump. It said the company expected to realize areduced fuel economy, but is working on improving fuelconsumption.    The company said after it installs the new fuel system, itwill retest the automobile.    In a separate announcement, the company said it receivedconfirmation from the European Patent Office that Sonexsuccessfully defended its BETA European Patent from acompetitor. Reuter
FTC URGES VETO OF GEORGIA GASOLINE STATION BILL The Federal Trade Commission saidits staff has urged the governor of Georgia to veto a bill thatwould prohibit petroleum refiners from owning and operatingretail gasoline stations.    The proposed legislation is aimed at preventing large oilrefiners and marketers from using predatory or monopolisticpractices against franchised dealers.    But the FTC said fears of refiner-owned stations as part ofa scheme of predatory or monopolistic practices are unfounded.It called the bill anticompetitive and warned that it wouldforce higher gasoline prices for Georgia motorists. Reuter
EC AGREES TO REDUCE DIESEL EXHAUST EMISSIONS The European Community (EC) agreed onnew rules to cut diesel exhaust emissions from trucks and busesin an attempt to reduce air pollution threatening vaststretches of the region's forests.    Diplomats said EC environment ministers meeting here agreedmember states would have to reduce by 20 pct over the next fewyears the emission of nitrogen oxide, widely seen as the mainsource of acid rain endangering forests and lakes.    The reduction would be compulsory for heavy vehicles, withtougher standards imposed for new models from April 1988 andfor all new vehicles from October 1990.    The EC's executive Commission says the emission level ofnitrogen oxide was expected to drop to 2.4 mln tonnes a yearfrom three mln tonnes within the 12-nation Community if allheavy vehicles met the new standards.    There are an estimated nine mln trucks and buses in use inthe EC, according to Commission figures.    The ministers also gave West Germany a go-ahead to movetowards a ban on the sale of leaded regular petrol, after Bonnrequested permission to do so to encourage the use oflow-pollution cars, diplomats said. Reuter
DRAWDOWN SEEN IN U.S. DISTILLATE STOCKS Tonight's American Petroleum Instituteoil inventory report is expected to show another drawdown indistillate stocks of between two and 7.5 mln barrels for theweek ending March 20, oil analysts and traders said.    They said they expect gasoline inventories to be depletedby about one to four mln barrels.    Analysts were divided on the crude stocks. Some saw stocksunchanged to as much as three mln barrels higher. Others saidstocks could be down one to five mln barrels. Crude throughputvolumes are expected to be unchanged to slightly higher orlower than the week ended March 13, traders said.    The API recorded a 7.4 mln barrel stockdraw for U.S.distillates in the week ended March 13. Analysts see another draw reflecting historic seasonal trends.    For the week ended March 13, API reported gasoline stocksdown 2.9 mln barrels.    Those expecting a draw of as much as four mln barrels saidthey are looking for fairly high consumption rates as thespring and summer driving season gets underway this year,because retail prices are still low compared to recent years.    U.S. crude oil stocks were reported down by 4.4 mln barrelsfor the week ended March 13. Analysts are divided over theoutcome for last week because there is uncertainty aboutwhether throughput levels increased or decreased last week.    Some see crude stock levels unchanged to three mln barrelshigher, while others think inventories could be as much as fivemln barrels below the previous week.    The lower estimates are supported by the belief that cruderuns increased and imports fell.    The API reported crude runs 154,000 b/d higher for the weekended March 13. Analysts are calling it unchanged to slightlyup or down for the week ended March 20.    Expectations for product stockdraws are already beingreflected in firmer prices, traders said. But if draws are atthe higher end of the estimated range, they added, the effectwill be bullish. Any stockbuild would be a negative factor,they said.    Crude runs normally increase in March, and any decrease inruns would be friendly to the market, said Peter Beutel ofElders Energy Futures Inc. Reuter
PDVSA INCOME ON OIL SALES FELL 45 PCT IN 1986 The state oil company Petroeleos deVenezuela ended 1986 with a decrease of 45 pct in income fromoil sales even though it surpassed its own export goal byalmost 100,000 barrels a day, Minister of Energy and MinesArturo Hernandez Grisanti said.    Speaking to a news conference following the PDVSA annualassembly, Hernandez said PDVSA's income from oil sales haddropped to 7.2 billion dlrs in 1986, down 45 pct from lastyear's 13.3 billion.    Fiscal revenue from oil sales, which was estimated at 66billion bolivares for 1986, totalled 43.5 billion, a drop of 34pct which Hernandez said "had a very serious impact onVenezuela."    PDVSA's export volume averaged 1.508 mln barrels a day, ofwhich 658,000 bpd were crude oil and 850,000 bpd refinedproducts.    The figure surpassed PDVSA's stated goal of 1.410 mln bpdand the 1985 export volume of 1.371 mln bpd. But it was notenough to cover the losses from a drop in the average pricefrom 25.88 dlrs per barrel in 1985 to 13.90 dlrs last year.    The 13.90 per barrel price for 1986 was 1.01 dlrs higherthan the figure originally announced by the Central Bank.Hernandez said the increase had come from a new accountingsystem which included the results of PDVSA's overseas refiningand marketing operations.    Consumption in Venezuela's internal market increased from323,000 bpd in 1985 to 342,000 bpd last year. However,Hernandez stressed that the government had managed to keepgasoline sales almost constant at 164,000 bpd.    Exploration by PDVSA led to an increase of 675 mln barrelsin reserves of light and medium crudes, shifting the balance ofVenezuela's reserves away from heavy crude oil. The country'sproduction capacity at year-end 1986 was 2.562 mln bpd, ofwhich 1.420 mln are light and medium crudes, Hernandez said.     Venezuela's total proven reserves as of December 31, 1986were 55.521 billion barrels, the fourth largest amount in theworld, Hernandez said. Reuter
API SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS OFF 4.07 MLN BBLS, GASOLINE OFF 2.69 MLN, CRUDE UP  Vermont Financial ServicesCorp said its board approved a regular 20 cts per share cashdividend payable April 25 to shareholders of record March 26. Reuter
EIA SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS OFF 3.2 MLN BBLS, GASOLINE UP 2.2 MLN, CRUDE UP The National Association of Realtorssaid sales of previously owned homes rose six pct duringFebruary from January levels to a seasonally adjusted annualrate of 3.69 mln units.    The realtors' group said the sales rise was apparent acrossthe country and reflected lower mortgage interest rates as wellas more housing demand.    Actual resales of homes during February totaled 241,000, up11.6 pct from the January total of 216,000, the associationsaid. Reuter
RECENT U.S. OIL DEMAND UP 0.1 PCT FROM YEAR AGO U.S. oil demand as measured byproducts supplied rose 0.1 pct in the four weeks ended March 20to 16.16 mln barrels per day from 16.15 mln in the same perioda year ago, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) said.    In its weekly petroleum status report, the EnergyDepartment agency said distillate demand was off 0.1 pct in theperiod to 3.258 mln bpd from 3.260 mln a year earlier.    Gasoline demand averaged 6.72 mln bpd, off 1.2 pct from6.80 mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.38 mlnbpd, off 2.1 pct from 1.41 mln, the EIA said.    Domestic crude oil production was estimated at 8.35 mlnbpd, down 7.8 pct from 9.06 mln a year ago, and gross dailycrude imports (excluding those for the SPR) averaged 3.44 mlnbpd, up 16.3 pct from 2.95 mln, the EIA said.    Refinery crude runs in the four weeks were 11.90 mln bpd,up 1.4 pct from 11.74 mln a year earlier, it said.    In the first 78 days of the year, refinery runs were up 1.8pct to an average 12.25 mln bpd from 12.04 mln in the year-agoperiod, the EIA said.    Year-to-date demand for all petroleum products averaged16.32 mln bpd, up 1.8 pct from 16.04 mln in 1986, it said.    So far this year, distillate demand rose 0.1 pct to 3.31mln bpd from 3.30 mln in 1986, gasoline demand was 6.60 mlnbpd, up 0.1 pct from 6.59 mln, and residual fuel demand fell0.4 pct to 1.42 mln bpd from 1.43 mln, the EIA said.    Year-to-date domestic crude output was estimated at 8.41mln bpd, off 7.7 pct from 9.11 mln a year ago, while grosscrude imports averaged 3.96 mln bpd, up 28.1 pct from 3.09 mln,it said. Reuter
SPANISH REFINER PLANS GASOLINE ADDITIVE PLANT Spain's state refiner Empresa Nacionalde Petroleo S.A. (EMP) plans to build its second unit forproduction of methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE), a gasolineadditive replacing lead, company sources said.    The Coruna-based plant, with an annual capacity of 27,000tonnes, and a 55,000-tonnes-per-year facility that EMP willstart up in Tarragona next year, will make the state refinerSpain's biggest producer of MTBE.    Petroleos del Norte S.A. (Petronor) runs a 45,000 tonne ayear plant in Bilbao and Cia Espanola de Petroleos S.A. (Cepsa)plans to put a similar unit onstream next year in Algeciras. Reuter
MOBIL <MOB> TO UPGRADE REFINERY UNIT Mobil Corp said it will spend over 30mln dlrs to upgrade a gasoline-producing unit at its Beaumont,Texas, refinery.    It said the unit is a catalytic reformer, which convertslow-octane components of gasoline into high-octane componentsfor use in Super Unleaded gasoline.    The company said the modernization will allow the unit toregenerate catalysts on a continuous basis without shutdown.Currently, it must be shut twice a year.  The unit produces46,000 barrels of gasoline components a year.  Constructionwill start late this year, with completion set for mid-1989. Reuter
(CORRECTED) - MOBIL <MOB> TO UPGRADE REFINERY UNIT Mobil Corp said it will spend over 30mln dlrs to upgrade a gasoline-producing unit at its Beaumont,Texas, refinery.    It said the unit is a catalytic reformer, which convertslow-octane components of gasoline into high-octane componentsfor use in Super Unleaded gasoline.    The company said the modernization will allow the unit toregenerate catalysts on a continuous basis without shutdown.Currently, it must be shut twice a year.  The unit produces46,000 barrels of gasoline components a day.  Construction willstart late this year, with completion set for mid-1989.    (Correcting unit's output to barrels/day from barrels/year) Reuter
NEW GASOLINE GRADE TO RAISE U.S. REFINING COSTS A new grade of unleaded gasolinenow being test marketed will increase refining costs whenrefiners can least afford it, according to officials attendingthe National Petroleum Refiners Association conference here.    The new grade of unleaded gasoline has an octane level of89 compared with over 90 for super unleaded and 87 for regularunleaded gasoline.     Amoco Corp <AN> has test-marketed the new mid-gradegasoline and hopes to sell it on a regular basis in the South,East and Midwest by the beginning of June, according to PaulCollier, executive vice president of marketing.    Phillips Petroleum <P> expects to begin marketing the new89 octane unleaded gasoline in May, sources said.    Converting current refinery operations to produce the 89octane unleaded gsoline could cost hundreds of millions ofdollars per refinery but that depends on the present capacityand intensity of the refinery, said Amoco's Collier.    But not all oil company's welcome the introduction ofanother grade of unleaded gasoline.    "Three grades are not warranted," said Henry Rosenberg,chairman of Crown Central Petroleum <CNP>. "Refiners will haveto upgrade again," he added.    "An investment will have to be made," said Archie Dunham,executive vice president of petroleum products at Conoco, anoperating subsidiary of DuPont Corp <DD> in order to upgraderefinery operations. Reuter
U.S. DISTILLATE, GASOLINE INVENTORIES SEEN LOWER Tonight's American Petroleum Instituteweekly inventory report is expected to show moderate drawdownsin distillates and gasoline stocks for the week ended March 27,analysts and traders said.    They said they expect gasoline stocks to fall three mlnbarrels or less and heating oil inventories to drop between 1.3and four mln barrels.    Some analysts see crude stocks falling by as much as sixmln barrels, while others think they could go up as much as 3.5mln barrels. Crude oil runs are expected to be unchanged fromthe previous week or slightly higher or lower.    For the week ended March 20, the API said gasoline stocksfell 2.7 mln barrels. Mosts analysts expect a modest draw forthe week ended March 27. They said stocks could fall between700,000 and three mln barrels. Some said there is also a chancegasoline stocks will be unchanged.    API said distillate stocks dropped four mln barrels for theweek ended March 20. Analysts and traders generally predict asimilar or smaller depletion for last week. They said stocklevels could drop 1.3 to four mln barrels.    The analysts attribute product stockdraws to seasonalfactors but they said crude direction is harder to call.    Crude inventories rose 8.5 mln barrels in the week endedMarch 20, API said. Analysts are looking for build of between3.5 mln barrels to a six mln barrel draw for the week endedMarch 27.    API reported the amount of refinery capacity utilized upthree pct for the week ended March 20. Analysts saidutilization could have remained unchanged, or rose or fell byless than one pct for the week ended March 27.    Moderate product stockdraws would strengthen the marketslightly, analysts said. But bullish expectations are alreadypartially reflected in today's gains, they added. Reuter
API SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS OFF 2.52 MLN BBLS, GASOLINE OFF 260,000, CRUDE OFF  Shr loss 1.82 dlrs vs loss 16 cts    Net loss 2,285,000 vs loss 264,000    Revs 23.0 mln vs 14.6 mln    Year    Shr loss 1.59 dlrs vs profit seven cts    Net loss 2,467,000 vs profit 112,000    Revs 77.3 mln vs 75.8 mln    NOTE: Includes loss of 1.1 mln dlrs or 70 cts/shr fromasset writedowns and cost reductions. Reuter
SWEDEN RAISES FUEL TAXES TO FUND DEFENCE SPENDING Sweden announced tax increases onpetrol and heating oil from July 1, 1987 to help finance a 1.7pct rise in defence spending over the next five years.    A Finance Ministry statement said the increase should boostthe price of petrol by 0.13 crowns to an average of 4.21 crownsper litre while light-grade heating oil would go up by 30crowns per cubic metre to an average of 1,665 crowns.    It said oil companies should absorb part of the tax riseinternally and not pass it on to consumers as compensation fora reduction in the stocks that the industry is required to keepfor Sweden's national petroleum reserve. REUTER
ENERGY/U.S. REFINING U.S. refiners said they are worriedthat growing supplies of imports, proposed federalenvironmental regulations, and the marketing of a third gradeof unleaded gasoline would cost them dearly and at a time whenthe industry is recovering from a recent slump.     "We have to look at national security and cut the amountof products and crude coming into the country if it hurts theindustry," said Archie Dunham, vice president of petroleumproducts at Conoco, subsidiary of DuPont Corp (DD).    U.S. oil imports account for about 38 pct of U.S.consumption but are expected to rise to 50 pct by the mid1990s, according to the Department of Energy.    "Can we afford to import 60 or 70 pct of our oilrequirements 15 or so years from now?" asked John Swearingen,chairman of the board of Continental Illinois Corp <CIL> andformer chief executive of Amoco Corp <AN>. "If your answer tothat question raises doubt, then it behooves us to do all thatwe can now to cope with this situation and improve ourposition."    But Swearingen said he opposed the idea of an import fee, aview echoed by others attending this week's National PetroleumRefiners Association meeting in San Antonio, Texas.    "Talk of an import surcharge or controls is not encouragingbecause those things won't solve our problems and could wellcompound them," said Swearingen. "Once the government affectsvalues, once an import quota or license has value, it's goingto be subverted by government," he added.     William Martin, deputy Energy Secretary, said the costs ofan import fee outweigh its benefits and suggested, as EnergySecretary John Herrington has, depletion tax credits toencourage domestic production and limit oil imports. He alsosaid altnerative energy sources should be encouraged.     Restoration of the depletion allowance for a 27 pctdeduction from the taxable income of oil companies is controversal but might work, said Dunham.    Dunham and other officials opposed the idea of a fee on oilimports but said if one is enacted it must tax crude andproduct imports.    "Why would companies import crude when they could importproducts for a smaller cost if there were only a fee on crude?"asked Henry Rosenberg, chairman of Crown Central Petroleum<CNP>.     An import fee would raise the costs of U.S. petrochemicalproducts and make them noncompetive on the world market, Dunhamsaid.     "The energy security issue should be considered whenenvironmental issues are considered," Martin said.    "The level of investment for the proposed lowering ofsulfur level of diesel to 0.05 pct by weight, for example, isunacceptable," Dunham said. "Most companies cannot afford it."    George Unzelman, president of HyOx, Inc., said theseproposals "will place pressure on small refining operations andpromote further industry consolidation."     An NPRA survey of of 139 refineries, which was released atthe conference, said reducing sulphur content to 0.05 pctweight and aromatics to 20 volume pct aromatics in highwaydiesel fuel would cost refiners 6.65 billion dlrs.     The national average diesel fuel sulfur content in 1986for the survey respondents was 0.27 weight pct while theaverage aromatics content was 32 pct.     Another possible cost to refiners is the upgrading offacilities to produce a third grade of unleaded gasoline whichis beginning to be marketed by some companies.    "What will be the standard octane level in various gradesof unleaded gasoline?" asked Dunham. "A midlevel grade ofunleaded gasoline with an octane level of 89 means aninvestment has to be made," Dunham said.     This grade is not warranted, said Crown's Rosenberg.     Despite these concerns, refiners are expecting margins tomove higher in the next few months.     "We are beginning to see a return in wholesale margins,"said Roger Hemminghaus, chairman of the refining and marketingcompany that is to spin off from Diamond Shamrock Corp <DIA>.     Margins are higher because the OPEC pact is holding, U.S.stocks of gasoline and heating oil are declining, and gasolinedemand is rising as the driving season approaches, he said.     "This summer could be a good season for selling gasoline,"Hemminghaus said, adding that the new company will be primarilya gasoline producer. Reuter
EPA TO SHIELD WATER SUPPLY FROM GASOLINE LEAKS The Environmental Protection Agencyproposed rules to shield water supplies from potential leaksfrom 1.4 mln underground storage tanks, nearly half of whichare used to store gasoline at service stations.    It said the rules would require owners and operators of thetanks containing petroleum products or certain hazardouschemicals to monitor the tanks for leaks and, in case of leaks,to notify appropriate authorities.    The owners and operators of petroleum tanks would also befinancially responsible for any contamination, the EPA said.    It said financial requirements for chemical tanks will beproposed later.    Hazardous tanks are regulated separately.    EPA Administrator Lee Thomas said "Thousands of undergroundstorage tanks are currently leaking and, without adequatecontrols, many more can be expected to leak in the future,endangering our nation's drinking-water supplies."    He added in a statement "We intend to ensure that eachunderground tank is either upgraded or closed down and thatsafe operating and cleanup procedures are following to providemaximum protection from any future leaks." reuter
PERU SAYS IT INTENDS TO DEEPEN DEBT STANCE President Alan Garcia said he sought todeepen Peru's hard-line foreign debt stance, possibly bylimiting repayments to the World Bank.    In a televised address tonight, he criticised the WorldBank for making Peru make larger debt payments than the amountthe bank is willing to make in new loans. "We will deepen ourpolicy on the foreign debt," he said.    Peru has limited foreign debt repayments to 10 pct ofexport earnings, effectively suspending most remittances dueforeign private banks and many governments. It has generallybeen current for most of Garcia's 20 months in office onpayments to the World Bank and the Inter-American DevelopmentBank.    But tonight Garcia said: "We have met our aim of limitingthe payment of the debt and will limit it also even thoughorganisations like the World Bank have credits which oblige usto buy a certain type of machinery and to build certain typesof public works and not others, and to pay much more in dollarsthan that which they are willing to newly lend us."    The Economy Ministry said last year it owed the World Bankabout 520 mln dlrs in loans out of the country's 14 billion dlrdebt.    Garcia said his government had been a model for LatinAmerica because Peru had enjoyed growth in gross domesticproduct (GDP) last year of nine pct while taking its hard lineon debt. He said GDP would grow by at least six pct this year.    He announced an immediate 40 pct rise in the minimum wageto 1,260 intis per month, benefiting the 1.3 mln minimum-wageworkers out of a total labour force of 6.7 mln.    Salaries will go up this month by 30 pct for civil servantsand 27 pct for those workers earning above the minimum wage butnot covered by collective bargaining agreements.    He also said the price of petrol, frozen since August 1,1985, would increase by 20 pct from the current 17.5 intis perU.S. Gallon and remain at the new level for the rest of theyear. He did not say when this increase would be effective.    Taxes on petrol are the government's leading revenueearner, traditionally accounting for about one-third of taxes.Sales taxes on autos, liquour and cigarettes would also go up,he said, without specifying the amount.    Garcia announced the government would encourage Peruviansto repatriate their savings deposited abroad by paying a 15 pctpremium above the market exchange rate.    The inti's official buy-sell rate against the dollar is14.85/92 and the free rate is about 21.70/80.    To encourage private investment, he said the governmentwould set up a special fund with which it would match every twointis of private investment with one inti from the government.    He also said his dismissal of Peruvian Air Force CommanderLieutenant General Luis Abram Cavarellino yesterdaystrengthened the democratic authority of his government. REUTER
SUPPLIES, MIDEAST TENSION FUEL GAINS IN OIL Petroleum futures rallied today in amarket that was expecting declines in domestic supplies andbecame further unsettled by escalated Mideast fighting.    Crude oil, gasoline and heating oil all posted gains on theNew York Mercantile Exchange, with crude oil prices matchinglife-of-contract highs. Crude for delivery in May closed 17cents higher at 18.84 dlrs a barrel.    "Crude futures could jump above 19 dlrs a barrel but willnot remain there long if products are not strong," RobertMurphy, account executive at E.F. Hutton, said.    Traders said prices were supported by anticipation that theAmerican Petroleum Institute would report a decline in domesticinventories of petroleum products in a weekly report.    Traders said prices also were supported by an escalation inthe Iran-Iraq war, with the Iranians reportedly launching a newoffensive against Iraqi positions, and Iraq attacking offshoreoil fields and an oil export depot.    Buying by speculators continued to prompt gains in gold andsilver futures on the Commodity Exchange in New York.    Gold prices retreated at midday, but rallied before theclose with support from the silver market, which wasapproaching two-year highs, traders said.    Soybean futures posted strong gains on the Chicago Board ofTrade, while corn and wheat were mostly higher.    Traders said cash sales have been slow in the country, andthe soybean harvest in Brazil has been delayed by rain, whichis limiting supplies.    In addition, the Agriculture Department last week projecteda substantial drop in soybean acreage this year.     Monday'sreport that the USDA inspected 46 mln bushels of corn forexport last week was unexpectedly high and, coupled with a lackof farm sales, provided support for the corn market, traderssaid.    Live hogs and frozen pork bellies rallied on the ChicagoMercantile Exchange, while cattle ended lower.    Live hogs pushed ahead on a lack of supplies because manyfarmers are turning their attention to spring planting ratherthan marketing livestock, traders said, noting that cash saleshave been lighter than expected this week.    The lack of marketing also has supported pork bellies, butprices drifted lower for moderate losses in nearby months asspeculators sold contracts to take profits, traders said.    Cattle prices closed lower but continued to show strengthrelated to tight supplies.    Prices pushed ahead to new contract highs, extending gainspast three-year peaks set Monday, as tight supplies forced meatpackers to bid aggressively for available animals.    However, some traders sold contracts to take profits afterthe extended rally, which has seen the April delivery contractsoar to 69.90 cents a pound from 56 cents a pound at the startof the year.    New York coffee futures closed higher on trade talk Brazilwould not be an aggressive seller near term, analysts said. Reuter
API SAYS DISTILLATE, GASOLINE STOCKS UP IN WEEK Distillate fuel stocks held inprimary storage rose by 628,000 barrels in the week ended Aprilthree to 106.96 mln barrels from a revised 106.33 mln theprevious week, the American Petroleum Institute said.    In its weekly statistical bulletin, the oil industry tradegroup said gasoline stocks rose 2.29 mln barrels to 247.91 mlnbarrels from a revised 245.62 mln, and crude oil stocks were up8.52 mln barrels to 337.73 mln from a revised 329.21 mln.    It said residual fuel stocks rose 28,000 barrels to 38.25mln from a revised 37.98 mln barrels.    API said refinery runs in the week rose to 12.54 mlnbarrels per day from 12.21 mln and refinery use of operatingcapacity was 80.4 pct, up from 78.3 pct.    Crude oil imports in the week fell to 3.40 mln bpd from arevised 3.60 mln, API added. Reuter
FINNS AND CANADIANS TO STUDY MTBE PRODUCTION PLANT Finland's national oil company Neste Oy<NEOY.HE> said in a statement it had agreed with Canadian firmsto study the feasibility of building a plant in Edmonton,Canada, to produce a replacement for lead in petrol.    The prospective plant would cost an estimated 270 mlnCanadian dlrs and would produce methyl tertiary butyl ether(MTBE) from raw materials available locally, it said.    The partners in the study are Neste Oy, Celanese CanadaInc, Hoechst Celanese Corporation and Trade Mountain Pipe LineCompany Ltd, of Vancouver, B.C.    The Edmonton site was suitable because of the raw materialsavailability, the proximity to pipeline transportation and theimportant capital and operating advantages gained by locatingon an existing Celanese Canada site, the statement said.    The partners would look into the feasibility of a plantproducing 500,000 tonnes per annum of MTBE, an octane enhancerthat can replace tetra ethyl lead.    Most of the MTBE would be targeted for the United Stateswhere lead levels in gasoline are being lowered because ofhealth concerns, the statement added.    Canadian lead limits are currently 11 times as high as theU.S. Limit but lead is scheduled for virtual elimination inCanada by 1993, which should create a Canadian demand for MTBE,it said.    Finland's Neste Oy, whose turnover last year was over fivebillion dlrs, has extensive experience with MTBE. It has amajor investment in an MTBE plant in Saudi Arabia.    The Edmonton, Alberta plant would be scheduled to go onstream in late 1989, the statement said. REUTER
EIA SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS UNCHANGED, GASOLINE OFF 200,000, CRUDE UP The following proposed securitiesofferings were filed recently with the Securities and ExchangeCommission:    First Interstate Bancorp <I> - Shelf offering of up to 112mln dlrs of debt securities, including notes and debentures, onterms to be determined at the time of the sale.    Pacificorp Credit Inc, subsidiary of Pacificorp <PPW> -Shelf offering of up to 250 mln dlrs of debt securities,including notes and debentures, at prices and on terms to bedetermined at the time of the sale. Reuter
EIA SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS UNCHANGED IN WEEK Distillate fuel stocks held inprimary storage were unchanged in the week ended April three at106.9 mln barrels, the Energy Information Administration (EIA)said.    In its weekly petroleum status report, the Department ofEnergy agency said gasoline stocks were off 200,000 barrels inthe week to 248.1 mln barrels and refinery crude oil stocksrose 6.3 mln barrels to 335.8 mln.    The EIA said residual fuel stocks fell 100,000 barrels to38.1 mln barrels and crude oil stocks in the StrategicPetroleum Reserve (SPR) rose 1.1 mln barrels to 520.0 mln.    The total of all crude, refined product and SPR stocks rose9.4 mln barrels to 1,561.1, it said. Reuter
RECENT U.S. OIL DEMAND OFF 2.6 PCT FROM YEAR AGO U.S. oil demand as measured byproducts supplied fell 2.6 pct in the four weeks ended Aprilthree to 15.73 mln barrels per day (bpd) from 16.16 mln in thesame period a year ago, the Energy Information Administration(EIA) said.    In its weekly petroleum status report, the EnergyDepartment agency said distillate demand was off 7.9 pct in theperiod to 2.90 mln bpd from 3.15 mln a year earlier.    Gasoline demand averaged 6.76 mln bpd, off 3.1 pct from6.98 mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.15 mlnbpd, off 16.9 pct from 1.39 mln, the EIA said.    So far this year, distillate demand fell 2.3 pct to 3.20mln bpd from 3.28 mln in 1986, gasoline demand was 6.63 mlnbpd, off 0.3 pct from 6.65 mln, and residual fuel demand fell4.9 pct to 1.35 mln bpd from 1.42 mln, the EIA said.    Year-to-date domestic crude output was estimated at 8.40mln bpd, off 7.6 pct from 9.09 mln a year ago, while grosscrude imports averaged 3.92 mln bpd, up 27.1 pct from 3.08 mln,it said. Reuter
EXXON <XON> EXTENDS MID-GRADE UNLEADED MARKETING Exxon Co U.S.A. said it is expandingmarketing of its mid-grade unleaded gasoline along the U.S.East Coast.    The Exxon Corp subsidiary said the changeover to the89-octane unleaded fuel will begin late this month and earlynext in major markets in Virginia, Maryland, Florida, and theDistrict of Columbia. The product was introduced in New York,New Jersey, Delaware, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusetts,New Hampshire and the Philadelphia area late last year.    Reuter
VENEZUELA RE-ESTABLISHES POSTED PRODUCT PRICES Petroleos de Venezuela, PDVSA, thestate owned oil company, has re-established posted prices forsome light products and heavy fuel oil, industry sources in NewYork said.    The return to posted prices is a sign that the market isreturning to a more stable and orderly condition after a yearof volatile price movements in which Venezuela ceased postingprices and moved to negotiating prices with companies.    "We are in more stable market now and PDVSA has probablydecided to return to postings for some products," one industrytrade source said.       But there was no talk of Venezuela posting prices for crudeoil which were also dropped in 1986.    Posted prices were dropped in the first quarter of 1986  when prices for crude oil and products tumbled in response toOPEC's market share strategy and netback arrangements.    PDVSA has set out posted prices for several groups of lightproducts including gasoline, naphtha, jet kerosene anddistillates effective April 15 as follows.    Unleaded gasoline was posted at 19.74 dlrs a barrel (47 ctsa gallon) with leaded gasoline at 20.16 dlrs a barrel (48 cts agallon).       Light naphtha was posted at 17.85 dlrs a barrel (42.5 cts agallon), full range naphtha at 19.11 dlrs a barrel (45.50 cts agallon), and heavy naphtha at 19.53 cts a gallon (46.5 cts agallon).    Jet kerosene was posted at 18.90 dlrs a barrel, alsoeffective April 15, or (45 cts a gallon) with dual purposekerosene at 18.06 dlrs a barrel (43 cts a gallon).    Distillates of 0.2 pct sulphur and 0.3 pct sulphur gradeswere posted at 18.48 dlrs a barrel (44 cts a gallon), each with0.5 pct sulphur 18.08 dlrs a barrel (43.05 cts a gallon).    LPG postings, also effective from April 15, were made as follows, propane 175 dlrs a tonne (33.33 cts a gallon), butane210 dlrs a tonne (46.26 cts a gallon) and isobutane at 240 dlrsa tonne.    Heavy fuel products were given a posted price effectiveApril 10 and ranged from 0.3 pct sulphur at 19.35 dlrs a barrelto 17.21 dlrs a barrel for 2.8 pct sulphur.    Heavy fuel postings are also referred to as minimum exportprices. Reuter
AMOCO <AN> TO SUPPLY LEADED GAS TO FARMERS Amoco Oil Co said it will continue tosell leaded gasoline to farmers in certain portions of themidwest as long as there is sufficient demand for the product.    "It appears that the agricultural community will needlimited amounts of leaded gasoline for certain types ofequipment until an acceptable alternative is found," thecompany said.    Amoco previously announced it would sell all lead-freegasoline to motorists at its service stations. Reuter
SHELL OIL FIRST QUARTER NET DROPS 61 PCT  Shell Oil Co said first quarter netincome dropped 61 pct over the prior-year quarter on revenuesthat slipped four pct.    "Lower prices for crude oil and natural gas and reducedmargins in our oil and chemical products businesses were themajor factor for the earings decline," John F. Bookout,president, said in a statement.    For the quarter, the company, a unit of Royal Dutch/ShellGroup <RD> <SC>, earned 108 mln dlrs on sales of 4.50 billiondlrs, compared with 276 mln dlrs on sales of 4.67 billion dlrsa year ago.    Bookout said the company is cautiously optimistic oilmarkets will be less volatile in coming months than they werein 1986.    "In coming months, oil products results should benefit fromseasonally higher gasoline volumes," he said.    "However, so long as U.S. product inventories remain high,it may be difficult to fully recover from the depressed marginsof recent periods," he added.    Bookout said the company's chemical products earningsshould benefit from strong performances in chemical salesvolumes and continued high industry operating rates.    Shell said its oil and gas exploration and product segmentearned 110 mln dlrs for the quarter vs 91 mln dlrs in 1986.    It said earnings were hurt by lower selling prices forcrude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. Domestic crudeoil prices averaged 14.24 dlrs a barrel, compared with 19.28dlrs last year, while natural gas prices dropped 24 pct, Shellsaid.    Shell said earnings at its oil products segment plunged by53 mln dlrs, to eight mln dlrs. It said lower refined productselling prices were only partially offset by reduced rawmaterial costs.    The company said earnings from chemical products also fellsharply, to 40 mln dlrs from 72 mln dlrs, due mainly to lowermargins, especially in commodity chemicals, coupled with itspullout from the agricultural chemicals business in October1986.    Shell said capital and exploratory outlays totaled 500 mlndlrs for the quarter, off from 645 mln dlrs. Reuter
U.S. ENERGY COSTS ROSE IN MARCH BY 1.0 PCT Consumer energy costs rose 1.0 pctin March following a moderate rise last month, the LaborDepartment said.    The March increase in the overall energy costs, includingpetroleum, coal and natural gas, followed a 3.0 pct rise inJanuary and a 1.9 pct rise in February, it said.    However, energy prices were 5.6 pct below year-ago levels.    The department's Consumer Price Index showed that the costof gasoline rose in March by 2.3 pct, after a 4.2 pct rise inFebruary.    Gasoline prices were nonetheless 5.9 pct below their levelsas of March 1986.    Also, the category including fuel oil, coal and bottled gasrose in March by 1.4 pct, putting it 9.0 pct under the year-agofigure.    The index also showed that natural gas and electricity wereunchanged last month, but down 3.1 pct from the March 1986figure, the department said.    The index has been updated to reflect 1982-84 consumptionpatterns. Previously, the index was based on 1972-73 patterns. Reuter
U.S. GASOLINE SURPLUS SEEN OVER NEAR TERM Unless U.S. refiners reduce the amountof gasoline they now produce, the oil industry will enter thecoming summer driving season with the largest surplus of motorfuel since 1984, oil analysts and traders said.    "They key question is how much gasoline refiners produce inthe coming weeks," said Larry Goldstein of Petroleum IndustryResearch Inc. "If refiners cut output and demand turns upward,gasoline stocks could begin to draw, and the surplus couldpotentially turn around in four to eight weeks," saidGoldstein.    The American Petroleum Institute said U.S. gasoline stocksfor the week ended April 17 are 37.6 mln barrels above lastyear's levels, and analysts said they don't believe theexpected one to two pct rise in demand will take care of thesurplus before the start of the summer driving season, whichbegins Memorial Day weekend.    The API said the last time stocks were this high was in1984, when there was a 27 mln barrel excess. Oil traders saidthat the surplus held throughout the summer of 1984, depressingprices for the motor fuel.    Over the past several weeks, analysts said they expectedrefiners to reduce production because there was no profit incontinued production of gasoline due to the surplus. However,refineries continued to operate at higher levels, they said.    U.S. refineries have been running at about 78.8 pct ofcapacity during March and April this year, compared to 77.5 atthis time last year, API statistics show.    Because of the current excess in stocks, one planner for amajor oil company said he believed that most companies arecontemplating cutting refinery throughput over the near term.    He said some refiners appear to be selling lessaggressively in order to have product on hand to meet theexpected rise in demand this summer.    Goldstein said that other factors, such as higher speedlimits, the gasoline lead phasedown, and possible newrestrictions on gasoline vapor pressure could tighten thesupply situation this summer.    However, a planner at another major oil company said thatalthough large inventories are dampening the price outlook forgasoline this season, he does not expect refiners to cut outputsoon.    That oil company planner said high crude oil runs reducethe refiner's average costs, making the incremental barrel ofgasoline cheaper to produce.    Most analysts expect a slight upturn this summer over thesummer of 1986. Bo Poates, an analyst at the Energy FuturesGroup Inc said he foresees demand up about one pct in thesecond and third quarters of 1987.    Chase Econometrics' Scott Jones sees gasoline demand rising1.9 to 2.2 pct for the year, due mainly to continued lowprices. Reuter
EGYPT FUEL PRICE INCREASES PART OF REFORM PACKAGE Egypt has embarked on reforms sought bythe International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank byraising the price of diesel oil and other types of transportfuels.    The energy price increases were the first visible measurestaken in return for IMF standby credits and World Bank loans.    Effective today, fuel oil prices were trebled and prices ofgas oil, diesel and kerosene went up by over 50 pct, anEgyptian General Petroleum Corp (EGPC) official said. He saidfuel oil will sell for 28 Egyptian pounds a ton, instead of 7.5pounds.    Kerosene and gas oil were raised by 66 pct to sell for fivepiasters a litre, while diesel rose 50 pct to 4.5 piasters.    The government is expected also to act soon, possibly asearly as next weekend, to simplify the country's complexexchange rate system, bankers said.    Moving towards a more realistic exchange rate for the poundwas part of a package of reforms sought by the IMF and creditorgovernments. In return, Egypt stands to receive up to onebillion dlrs in IMF standby credits phased over three years tohelp it repay its 38.6 billion dlr foreign debt and guaranteerescheduling by western governments, the main creditors.    Energy price increases were also a condition of progress onWorld Bank project loans of up to 800 mln dlrs in energy,communications and other sectors which have been undernegotiation for several months, western diplomats said.    The U.S. And Western Europe have pledged political backingfor President Hosni Mubarak's government, committed to amulti-party political system and peace with Israel andstrategically poised in control of the Suez Canal.    Fuel price rises, postponed at least once and likely tolead to higher retail prices of basic goods, were a test of thegovernment's resolve to pursue economic reform, diplomats said.    But the new prices are still below world market levels.    There was no announcement of increases in more politicallysensitive products such as gasoline or natural gas, used forcooking, and the mass-circulation Al-Akhbar newspaper said theywould stay the same.    Official comment was not available on speculation amongbankers and diplomats that the Central Bank would soon tinkerwith the pound's exchange rates to try to channel more dollarsinto the banking system away from the illegal but toleratedfree market.    The Central Bank was expected to set up a committee inwhich 10 commercial banks, including the four state-ownedbanks, would decide the pound's value every day.    The official "incentive rate," currently set by the CentralBank daily, is around 1.36 pounds to the dollar, against 2.15on the free market.    Bankers predicted that the banks' committee might set ratesaround 1.80 or 1.90. But some doubted this would serve the aimof curbing the free market. REUTER
RECENT U.S. OIL DEMAND UP 0.6 PCT FROM YEAR AGO U.S. oil demand as measured byproducts supplied rose 0.6 pct in the four weeks ended April 17to 15.91 mln barrels per day (bpd) from 15.82 mln in the sameperiod a year ago, the Energy Information Administration (EIA)said.    In its weekly petroleum status report, the EnergyDepartment agency said distillate demand was off 10.2 pct inthe period to 2.67 mln bpd from 2.98 mln a year earlier.    Gasoline demand averaged 6.94 mln bpd, off 1.8 pct from7.06 mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.17 mlnbpd, off 12.9 pct from 1.34 mln, the EIA said.    Domestic crude oil production was estimated at 8.36 mlnbpd, down 5.9 pct from 8.88 mln a year ago, and gross dailycrude imports (excluding those for the SPR) averaged 3.70 mlnbpd, up 5.2 pct from 3.52 mln, the EIA said.    Refinery crude runs in the four weeks were 12.58 mln bpd,up 2.0 pct from 12.33 mln a year earlier, it said.    In the first 113 days of the year, refinery runs were up2.3 pct to an average 12.36 mln bpd from 12.09 mln in theyear-ago period, the EIA said.    Year-to-date demand for all petroleum products averaged16.26 mln bpd, up 1.6 pct from 15.99 mln in 1986, it said.    So far this year, distillate demand fell 3.1 pct to 3.11mln bpd from 3.21 mln in 1986, gasoline demand was 6.71 mlnbpd, off 0.3 pct from 6.73 mln, and residual fuel demand fell6.2 pct to 1.32 mln bpd from 1.40 mln, the EIA said.    Year-to-date domestic crude output was estimated at 8.38mln bpd, off 7.4 pct from 9.05 mln a year ago, while grosscrude imports averaged 3.86 mln bpd, up 21.1 pct from 3.19 mln,it said. Reuter
SINGAPORE OIL COMPANIES TO SET OWN PUMP PRICES Singapore oil companies can set theirown petrol and diesel prices at the pump from today subject toceilings determined by their individual wholesale prices, TheMinistry of Trade and Industry said.    The ministry previously revised pump prices and announcedthe changes for the oil companies.    Lead content of petrol is further cut to 0.15 gm/litre from0.4 gm from today. Pump prices of the lower lead petrol gradesare expected to be announced soon by the oil companies whichhave said wholesale prices are between 1.3 cents/litre to 3.2cents higher than previous grades. REUTER
MOBIL RAISES SINGAPORE PETROL PUMP PRICES Mobil Oil Singapore Pte Lte will raisepump prices of petrol from June 2, a spokeswoman said.    Grade 97 octane with 0.15 gm lead will be 96.8 cents/litreagainst 94 cents previously for 0.4 gm lead. Grade 92 octanewill be 90.2 cents against 87.6 previously.    SPC earlier announced its pump prices of 96.8 cents and90.6 cents for 97 and 92 octane, respectively, for 0.15 gm leadpetrol which is being sold in Singapore from today in line withthe Ministry of Environment's regulations. REUTER
SHELL, CALTEX, BP REVISE SINGAPORE PETROL PRICES Shell Eastern Pte Ltd will revise pumpprices of petrol from 2300 hours local while Caltex Asia Ltdand BP Singapore Pte Ltd will revise theirs at midnighttonight, company officials said.    Caltex and Shell will set prices of 0.15 gm lead at 96.8cents/litre for 97 octane and 90.2 cents for 92 octane. BP willset prices at 96.8 cents/litre and 90.6 cents, respectively.Previous industry pump prices for 0.4 gm lead were 94 cents for97 octane and 87.6 cents for 92 octane. REUTER
ESSO RAISES SINGAPORE PETROL PUMP PRICES Esso Singapore Pte Ltd said it raisedpump prices of petrol from today.    New prices for 0.15 gm lead grades are 97.0 cents/litre for97 octane and 90.8 cents for 95 octane.    Other Singapore oil companies announced yesterday that theywould revise their pump prices effective today.    Shell Eastern Petroleum Pte Ltd, Mobil Oil Singapore PteLtd, Caltex Asia Ltd, Singapore Petroleum Co Pte Ltd and BPSingapore Pte Ltd are pricing 97 octane at 96.8 cents. Shell,Mobil and Caltex are pricing 92 octane at 90.2 cents, and SPCand BP at 90.6 cents. REUTER
SMALL RISE SEEN IN U.S. GASOLINE INVENTORIES U.S. analysts expect the AmericanPetroleum Institute's weekly report on oil inventories to showa slight build in U.S. stocks of gasoline for the week endedMay 29, oil traders and analysts said.    While the consensus is for an increase, a few would notrule out the possibility of an decline. Traders said thatbarring any surprises in tonight's report, they expect thereport to be neutral to bearish for oil prices.    Heating oil stocks are also likely to build and runs to besteady to slightly higher, which could add pressure on oilprices, the analysts said.    Crude oil was seen likely to build assuming importscontinue at relatively high levels.    Analysts expect gasoline stocks to rise 500,000 to two mlnbarrels above the 234 mln reported for May 22.    Peter Beutel, oil analyst with Elders Futures inc, wholooks for a build said, "We have had five weeks of gasolinedemand at 7.3 mln bpd or more and it is likely to taper off tobetween 6.7-7.0 mln bpd, which should make stocks build. Demandwould have to stay above 7.0 mln bpd to have a draw," he added.    Rising demand is why oil traders and analysts expect a drawin stocks of about of about one mln barrels.       The U.S. Energy Information Administration in its latestreport for the four weeks ending may 22 said that gasolinedemand was up 4.4 pct to 7.3 mln bpd from the previous year.    But analysts said hopes of reduced stocks is likely tofounder on increased runs in refineries, which could be up 0.3pct above May 22's 81.2 pct capacity operated.    Such an increase would raise runs about 100,000 bpd and addto U.S. stocks.    But some analysts said that refiners may have held refineryruns.    Heating oil stocks were also expected to build between700,000 barrels and one mln from the 96 mln barrel levelreported last week, but a rise in distillate stocks wasdiscounted as having a market impact at this time.    "A build is seasonal now and not out of line with last year,"one futures analyst said.    Analysts said they also expect crude oil stocks to buildbetween 1.5 mln barrels and three mln from the 325 mln barrelsreported by API for the week of may 22.    The consensus appears for about two mln barrels to be addedto the nation's inventory. Reuter
API SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS UP 2.85 MLN BBLS, GASOLINE OFF 2.37 MLN, CRUDE OFF 1 President Reagan is to nominateKenneth Rogers, president of the Stevens Institute ofTechnology, to be a member of the Nuclear RegulatoryCommission, the White House said.    Rogers, 58, would succeed James Asseltine for a five-yearterm expiring June 30, 1992. He has has been president of theStevens Institute, in Hoboken, N.J., since 1972. He waspreviously acting provost and dean of faculty. Reuter
ESS0 LOWERS PREMIUM PETROL PUMP PRICE Esso Singapore Pte Ltd will lower thepump price of its premium 97 octane petrol price to 96.8cents/litre from 97 cents effective midnight tonight, aspokeswoman said.    The new price is similar to other oil companies' price forthe same grade.    Esso's price for 95 octane remains unchanged at 90.8 cents. REUTER
HEDGERS INCREASE SHARE OF U.S. CRUDE OIL FUTURES Commercial hedgers increased theirstake in sales of U.S. crude oil and heating oil futures duringMay, according to a U.S. federal agency report.    Trade hedgers accounted for 64.7 pct of open shortpositions in May, compared with 58.2 pct in April, and added5,700 new sales in May, while liquidating almost 11,000purchases, the report said.    Speculators, in contrast, saw a decline in share of crudeoil shorts in May. May spec shorts totaled 13.6 pct versus 25.6pct in April. The report was prepared by the Commodity FuturesTrading Commission.                                        In heating oil futures, commercial users accounted for68.7 pct of short postions in May versus 58.2 pct in April andadded 311 new short positions.    Gasoline futures saw little change in the percentage ofshort or long positions held by commercial users, speculators,or small traders, according to the CFTC report. Trade users accounted for 72.5 pct of short gasoline futures positions inMay, compared with a revised 75.7 pct in April. New York Mercantile Exchange Commitments of traders, May 29, 1987             SPECULATOR   SPREADERS HEDGERS   TOTAL           LONG SHRT LONG SHRT LONG SHRT LONG SHRT HEATING   16.1  5.7 2.5  2.5  49.7 68.7 68.2 76.8  OIL      SMALL TRADERS - long 31.8 short 23.2 UNLEADED  10.8  4.0 7.0  7.0  64.4 72.5 82.3 83.6  GAS      SMALL TRADERS - long 17.7 short 16.4 CRUDE     15.1 13.6 5.5  5.5  61.2 64.7 81.8 83.8  OIL      SMALL TRADERS - long 18.2 short 16.2 Reuter
SINGAPORE PETROLEUM CO RAISES OIL PRODUCT POSTINGS Singapore Petroleum Co Pte Ltd said itwill raise posted prices for its products from June 19, by onecent/gallon for lpg, naphtha and gasoline, two cents for gasoil and by 60 cents/barrel for marine diesel oil.    New prices are - lpg 36.0 cents/gallon, chemical naphtha47, unleaded reformate 65.8, 0.4 gm lead 97 octane 61.3, 95octane 59.3, 92 octane 55.5, 85 octane 49.5, 0.125 gm lead 97octane 64.3, 92 octane 58.5, 85 octane 52.5, jet kerosene 51.5,kerosene 50.5, premium kerosene 54.5, dual purpose kerosene52.5, 0.5 pct sulphur gas oil 52.0, one pct sulphur 51.0 andmarine diesel oil 21.20 dlrs/barrel. REUTER
JAPAN FIRMS TO LAUNCH SALES OF 100 OCTANE GASOLINE Japanese oil companies are startingcampaigns to market 100 octane gasoline to meet growingdomestic demand for higher quality motor fuel, oil sourcessaid.    Ten companies plan to offer the unleaded gasoline thissummer, starting with <Idemitsu Kosan Co Ltd> on June 20.    Showa Shell Sekiyu KK <SHOL.T> introduced its Formula Shell98 octane gasoline to the Japanese market in January this year.    Formula Shell has achieved strong sales in Japan despite ahigher price than regular octane gasoline, which has promptedother oil firms to offer a rival product, the sources said.    "We have received a good response from consumers of FormulaShell in terms of a smoother ride and effective fuelconsumption," Showa Shell said.    Shell's product sells for 145 yen per litre, 15 yen higherthan regular gasoline, and has already achieved a 38 pct shareof Japan's high octane gasoline market, it said.    High octane gasoline accounts for 25 pct of Shell's totalgasoline sales in Japan, it added.    Idemitsu said it hopes to raise high octane sales to 20 pctof its total gasoline sales from about seven pct, immediatelyafter the launch of its Idemitsu 100.    Nippon Oil Co Ltd <NPOL.T> said it will launch its 100octane gasoline on July 1, aiming for an increase in highoctane sales to 20 pct from six pct of its total gasolinesales.    The rush to compete for high octane gasoline market sharehas been spurred by expectations that the government will liftgasoline production quotas and restrictions on gasoline stationconstruction in the next two to three years.    "Major oil companies are trying to boost their gasolinesales network ahead of the proposed lifting of gasolineproduction quotas," an official at a major oil company said.    An advisory panel to the Ministry of International Tradeand Industry (MITI) recommended this week that the governmentpress ahead with deregulation of the oil industry, includingthe lifting of gasoline production quotas, to help oilcompanies increase their international competitiveness.    Japan's three biggest gasoline marketers, Nippon Oil,Idemitsu and Showa Shell, suffered supply shortages under theproduction quota guideline in fiscal 1986, ended last March.    Domestic gasoline demand during the year was up 2.5 pctfrom the previous year, according to a MITI report. REUTER
EXXON <XON> EXTENDS MID-GRADE UNLEADED MARKETING Exxon Co U.S.A. said it is extendingmarketing of its mid-grade unleaded gasoline, Exxon Plus, intothe Houston and Dallas/Fort Worth metropolitan areas beginningearly next month.    Exxon Corp's domestic subsidiary is already marketing the89-octane unleaded gasoline along much of the East Coast.    As it introduces the third unleaded grade, Exxon noted, itno longer offers a leaded gasoline in the market, except insome rural areas where leaded gaosline will be made availableto distributors who have a substantial need for the product toserve customers whose equipment was designed for leaded fuel. Reuter
API SAYS DISTILLATES OFF 1.95 MLN BARRELS, GASOLINE OFF 3.98 MLN, CRUDE UP  TRW Inc said it was selected toperform fact-finding security system surveys for the authoritythat is building Kansai International Airport in Osaka, Japan.    The company said the 340,000 dlr contract was significantbecause it was the first contract issued by the authoritysolely to an American company without Japanese partners.    The contract calls for TRW to perform studies of otherinternational airport security systems on behalf of Kansai, thecompany said.    Kansai is scheduled to be operational in 1993. Reuter
