SWISS ECONOMY IN EXCELLENT CONDITION, OECD SAYS Switzerland's economy, combining lowunemployment, financial stability and a large external paymentssurplus, is in excellent condition and faces a satisfactoryfuture, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation andDevelopment, OECD, said.    This reflected the success of stable and relatively tightfiscal and monetary policies followed by the government, itsaid.    The OECD, in its annual report on Switzerland, picked outsome signs of a slowdown in activity and a slight pick-up ininflation this year, but said these gave no cause for concern.    The study forecast a decline in Gross Domestic Productgrowth to 1.75 pct this year from an estimated two pct in 1986and a small rise in consumer price inflation to 1.25 pct afterlast year's sharp fall to 0.75 pct from 3.6 pct in 1985.    But it said job creation should continue to absorb a modestincrease in the workforce, leaving the unemployment rateunchanged at around one pct, the lowest in the 24-industrialnation OECD area.    Assuming an average exchange rate of 1.71 Swiss francs tothe dollar this year, against 1.69 in the second half of 1986,the report forecast a 2.75 pct rise in exports and a 3.5 pctrise in imports this year after rises of 3.25 pct and 6.5 pctrespectively in 1986.    The faster growth of imports compared with exports thisyear and last, reflecting buoyant private consumption, meantthat the contribution of the foreign payments balance to GDPwould shrink in both years.    But "given Switzerland's large external surplus, thereshould be no concern if domestic demand grows faster thanGDP...Which, if only in a small way, would contribute toimproving international balances," the OECD said.    Real private consumption appeared to have been unusuallybuoyant last year, with a 3.25 pct growth rate, after severalyears of relative weakness, it noted.    In 1987 private consumption was expected to slow somewhatto a 2.25 pct growth rate, but should still outstrip overallGDP, it added.    The outlook for investment in plant and machinery remainedbright into 1987, and with capacity use at near record levelslast year there was scope for rationalisation and modernisationin both the industry and service sectors, it said.    As a consequence, growth in machinery and equipmentinvestment is likely to decelerate only slightly this yearafter vigorous growth in 1986.    But the report raised a questionmark over the prospects fortourism and the banking industry, two major service sectorearners of foreign exchange.    The long-term appreciation of the Swiss Franc, and theaccelerating deregulation of foreign banking markets, couldlead to a loss of international market share for both, it said.    Particularly for the banks, "recent developments ininternational financial markets give rise to the questionwhether the Swiss financial system, which has shown substantialflexibility in the past, is adapting itself at the speedrequired ... To preserve its competitive position," it said. REUTER
FRANCE FACES PRESSUE TO CHANGE POLICIES France's right wing government is facinggrowing pressure to modify its economic policies after revisingdown its 1987 growth targets and revising up its inflationforecasts for this year.    Moving reluctantly into line with most private sectorforecasts the government yesterday raised its 1987 inflationestimate a half percentage point to 2.5 per cent and cut itseconomic growth estimate to between two and 2.8 per cent from a2.8 per cent target written into the annual budget lastseptember.    Finance Minister Edouard Balladur said the revised figureswould not push the government off its chosen mix of pricederegulation, budget-cutting rigour and pay restraint.    But Trade Union leaders served immediate notice they wouldpush to protect the purchasing power of their members, raisingthe spectre of a vicious spiral of wage and price rises.    And bank economists contacted by Reuters said they believedPrime Minister Jacques Chirac could be forced by slow growthand rising unemployment to reflate the economy later this year,perhaps in the autumn, to boost his prospects in Presidentialelections due by April 1988.    "The outlook is more worrying than it was a few weeks ago,"said Societe Generale economist Alain Marais. "We have theimpression it may be difficult to get even two per cent growththis year."    "The big question is whether the government's policy of wagemoderation will be maintained," he added.    The government has set public sector wage rises at aboout1.7 per cent this year, with a three per cent ceiling for risesjustified by increased productivity.    But the head of the socialist CFDT union federation, EdmondMaire, meeting with Chirac today, renewed union demands alreadyrejected by the government for indexation clauses to be builtinto future pay contracts to safeguard workers against higherprices.    Calling the government's policies "unbalanced and unjust," healso demanded investment incentives to boost employment. Heannounced after his meeting that Chirac had told him thegovernment would spend two billion francs on a series ofmeasures to boost employment and training    Andre Bergeron, a widely respected leader of the moderateForce Ouvriere labour group, put similar demands to Chiracearlier in the week while the Communist-led CGT, the largest ofFrance's unions, declared the defence of its members earningsits top priority.    But with unemployment nearing 11 per cent last month, andstill rising, government supporters and some economic analystssaid they were confident Chirac could resist union pay demands.    "Salary indexation was ended by the previous Socialistgovernment and I dont think this administration is going toreverse that," commented Michel Develle, economist atrecently-privatised Banque Paribas.    Damaging transport and electricity strikes over Christmasand the New Year, partly blamed by the government for higherinflation, had undermined the unions power and popularity, hesaid.    Develle said Paribas expected inflation to rise even morethan the governments revised forecast, perhaps to 2.6 or 2.7per cent this year against last years 2.1 per cent.    "But that would still be an exceptional achievementconsidering that for the first time since the Second World Warall french prices have been freed," he commented.    Finance Ministry officials said that the governmentsabolition of price and rent controls last year was responsiblefor nearly a quarter of a 0.9 per cent surge in January livingcosts.    But they claimed it was a once-off phenomenon that shouldhave no knock-on impact on the rest of the year.    Both Marais and Develle said they agreed with that, so longas the government kept wages under control.    Prices could rise 1.5 per cent in the first three months of1987 and two per cent in the first half year, fractionally morethan forecast this week by the National Statistics Institute,INSEE,  Marais said. But the second half year should be better,he added.    Ironically, one side effect of higher inflation could be tohelp the government achieve its aim of cutting the state budgetdeficit, several analysts said.    So long as public sector wages are held down, higher ValueAdded Tax receipts resulting from rising prices should offset aloss in revenues that otherwise would result from slower thanexpected growth, they said.    Reuter
AUSTRALIA'S KEATING CHANGES ECONOMIC FORECASTS Domestic demand is now expected to makeno contribution to Australian economic growth in fiscal1986/87, ending June 30, while net exports will account for allof the overall increase, Treasurer Paul Keating said here.    However, he did not say in his speech to the EconomicPlanning Advisory Council (EPAC) if the forecast 2.25 pct risein gross domestic product (gdp) had been revised.    But Keating said domestic demand could fall slightly thisfinancial year and net export growth will provide the totalsource of gdp growth.    The August budget had forecast domestic demand wouldcontribute 0.75 percentage points to non-farm gdp growth of 2.5pct while net exports would account for 1.75 points.    Keating said the overall impact of the changed economicparameters is welcome as it appears to have contributed to aslightly more rapid correction in the current account deficitthan first anticipated.    "The government initially forecast a current account deficitfor 1986/87 of 14.75 billion -- our present expectation is thatthe result will be somewhat lower, around 14 billion," he said.    Partial indicators released since the last meeting of EPACin December indicate that the 1986/87 budget strategy isbroadly on track, Keating said.    "They indicate that domestic demand has been a little moresluggish than was expected at budget time," he said.    "On the other hand, net exports seem to be expanding by morethan expected at budget time, and this is underpinning growthin domestic production and employment."    Keating said it now seems likely that the 1986/87 inflationrate will exceed the budget forecast of eight pct.    "Nevertheless, there is likely to be a marked slowing ininflation over coming quarters as depreciation and budgetaryeffects wane," he said.    Keating said the government expects economic growth to pickup moderately in 1987/88 due to a further significant rise innet exports and a very moderate but positive contribution fromprivate domestic demand.    He said domestic demand growth will be due to astrengthening in real household disposable income.    The moderate rise in economic growth next financial yearshould be sufficient to sustain employment growth at a levelbroadly equivalent to that of the current fiscal year.    "The current account deficit will continue to showimprovement in 1987/88," Keating said.    "As the impact of the exchange rate depreciations of recentyears recede further, and given continued effective wagerestraint, inflation should moderate markedly in 1987/88," hesaid. REUTER
FRANCE HAS LITTLE ROOM FOR MANOEUVRE, OECD SAYS French industry is failing to produce thegoods its markets need and its loss of competitiveness has leftthe government little room for manoeuvre to reflate theeconomy, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation andDevelopment said.    With gross domestic product likely to grow only 2.1 pctthis year, the same rate as last year, unemployment could climbto 11.5 pct of the workforce by mid-1988, from its present 10.9pct, it said in an annual review of the French economy.    The report said the French economy was "increasinglyill-adapted to demand" selling goods at "uncompetitive relativeprices on both domestic and export markets."    "France's poor export performance reflects a geographicalbias in favour of markets less dynamic than the average...And...A substantial loss of market share...In the past 18months," it said.    Pointing to a likely widening of the French trade deficitto around 2.9 billion dlrs this year from 2.4 billion in 1986,it warned that a further depreciation of the dollar against thefranc could lead to "a (renewed) loss of competitivenessrelative not only to the United States but also to the newlyindustrialised countries."    This could result in further major losses of market share,particularly in the non-OECD area, which accounts for almost aquarter of French exports, it said.    Until the competitive ability of industry improved, theauthorities would have "little scope for macroeconomicmanoeuvre, even if the unemployment situation or the need toencourage a pickup in investment could require demand to growmore briskly," it added.    But rising unemployment could help to hold down wagedemands, contributing to a slowdown in inflation to around atwo pct annual rate this year and early next, the OECD said.    Written mainly in December last year, the report took noaccount of a rise in oil prices early in 1987, and a 0.9 pctsurge in January consumer prices, caused partly by thegovernment's deregulation of service sector tariffs.    "We took a bet that the freeing of prices would not provokerunaway rises, and it is not absolutely certain that bet hasbeen lost," one OECD official commented.    OECD officials said the January data and a rise in oilprices above the 15 dlrs a barrel average assumed in thereport, indicated an upward revision in the inflation forecastto around 2.5 or three pct.    The government last week revised its forecast up to between2.4 and 2.5 pct from two pct, against last year's 2.1 pct.    But the OECD backed the government's view that theunderlying trend for inflation remained downwards this year,with a slowdown in domestic costs taking over from last year'sfall in oil and commodity prices as the chief cause ofdisinflation.    With French unit productivity costs now among the lowest inthe OECD area, the inflation differential between France andits main trading rival, West Germany, could fall to just onepct this year, it said.    On the other hand, the report noted, consumer prices forindustrial goods and private services have been rising steeplyas companies built up their profits.    "For the disinflationary process to continue , and pricecompetitiveness to become lastingly compatible with exchangerate stability, it is essential that wage restraint continue,"it said. REUTER
CANADA REAL 4TH QTR GDP ROSE 1.1 PCT, AFTER 3RD QTR 1.1 PCT RISE -  United-Guardian Inc said itsigned a contract with <Federal Health Corp> covering theexclusive marketing of Warexin, a disinfectant for kidneydialysis machines, hospital equipment and instruments.    Under the contract, United-Guardian said Federal willcontinue to supply Hospal, a subsidiary of <Sandoz Ltd> and<Rhone Poulenc S.A.> with all its Warexin requirements. Reuter
CANADA DECEMBER GDP UP 1.2 PCT AFTER NOVEMBER'S 0.2 PCT FALL -  Shr 78 cts vs one dlr    Net 1,413,000 vs 1,776,000    Assets 705.3 mln vs 597.3 mln    Deposits 495.6 mln vs 493.9 mln    Loans 260.0 mln vs 379.7 mln    Qtly div six cts vs six cts prior qtr    Pay April 1     Record March 6    NOTE: 1986 net includes charges from accounting changes,from one-time expenses associated with a proxy contest and anincrease in loan reserves.    First Federal Savings and Loan Association of Kalamazoo isfull name of company. Reuter
CANADA GDP RISES 3.1 PCT IN 1986 Canada's real gross domestic product,seasonally adjusted, rose 1.1 pct in the fourth quarter of1986, the same as the growth as in the previous quarter,Statistics Canada said.    That left growth for the full year at 3.1 pct, which isdown from 1985's four pct increase.    The rise was also slightly below the 3.3 pct growth rateFinance Minister Michael Wilson predicted for 1986 inFebruary's budget. He also forecast GDP would rise 2.8 pct in1987.    Statistics Canada said final domestic demand rose 0.6 pctin the final three months of the year after a 1.0 pct gain inthe third quarter.    Business investment in plant and equipment rose 0.8 pct inthe fourth quarter, partly reversing the cumulative drop of 5.8pct in the two previous quarters. Reuter
CANADA DECEMBER GDP GAINS 1.2 PCT Canada's gross domestic product, byindustry, rose a seasonally adjusted 1.2 pct in December, thelargest monthly gain since April, 1986, Statistics Canada said.    GDP, which fell 0.2 pct in November, was 2.1 pct above theDecember, 1985 level, the federal agency said.    Output of goods producing industries rose 1.6 pct in themonth, with virtually all the growth occurring in manufacturingand mining. Services producing industries expanded 1.0 pct. Reuter
CANADA ECONOMY EXPECTED TO GROW MODERATELY Canadian economic growth is expected toslow further in 1987, but an improved the trade picture shouldkeep the country from recession, economists said.    "The economy is ready for about a 2.0 pct rate of growthover the course of 1987," said Carl Beigie, Chief Economist atDominion Securities Pitfield Ltd.    Statistics Canada reported that gross domestic product,grew 3.1 pct in 1986, the fourth year of continuous expansion,but down from 1985's four pct.    In the final quarter, GDP, in 1981 prices and at annualizedrates, rose a slight 0.2 pct after expanding 0.8 pct in thethird quarter.    "Essentially it is a flat performance," said Warren Jestin,deputy chief economist at the Bank of Nova Scotia.    Economist Wendy Smith Cork of the brokerage Nesbitt ThomsonBongard Inc said "it shows the economy is not moving along verysteadily, it's not a very promising number."    "We weren't surprised, we expected to see one bad quarterin Canada, but we don't think there will be a recession," sheadded.    The rise in GDP was below the 3.3 pct increase forecast byFederal Finance Minister Michael Wilson in his budget lastmonth. He also projected the economy would expand  2.8 pct thisyear.    Many economists are less optimistic, predicting growth willlikely be in the 2.0 to 2.2 pct range.    Statistics Canada also reported the country's tradeperformance deteriorated sharply last year as the deficit inthe current account rose to a record 8.8 billion Canadian dlrsfrom the previous year's shortfall of 584 mln dlrs.    "The sharp increase in the deficit originated frommerchandise trade transactions where imports continued toadvance strongly whereas exports were virtually unchanged," thefederal agency said in a statement.    The merchandise trade surplus was pared to 10.13 billiondlrs in 1986 from 17.48 billion dlrs in 1985.    But economist Cork said the expected upturn in the U.S.economy will lead to increased demand for Canadian goods, andhelp fuel the country's modest expansion. Nearly 80 pct ofCanada's exports are shipped to the U.S. each year. Reuter
TURKEY SEES 1.5 BILLION DLR DEFICIT IN 1986 Turkey expects a 1986 balance of paymentsdeficit of 1.5 billion dlrs, well over target, but is takingsteps to improve its performance in this and other fields, AliTigrel, director of economic planning at the State PlanningOrganisation said.    He told Reuters the shortfall was a direct consequence ofeconomic growth of nearly eight pct, up from 5.1 pct in 1985,which he said resulted mostly from a surge in domestic demand.    Tigrel acknowledged a need to cut inflation further after adrop of more than 12 points to 24.6 pct in the Treasurywholesale index last year.    This year's target of 20 pct "might be attainable but theeconomic management will have to be careful," he said.    Tigrel, whose department produces the annual programmewhich is central to the government's economic planning, saidTurkey's creditworthiness was at risk over the current accountshortfall, originally targeted at 695 mln dlrs.    "We must alleviate the current account substantially tosustain the creditworthiness that we have managed to secureover the last five years," he added.    His comment echoed last October's Organisation for EconomicCooperation and Development report on Turkey, which saidAnkara's case for more medium-term financing on better termswould look better if inflation were lower and the currentaccount deficit cut or turned into a surplus.    "In 1987 we must reduce the rate of growth in public sectorinvestments, we must reduce the public sector deficit as apercentage of GNP and we must achieve a very visibleimprovement in the current account deficit," he said.    Tigrel said a surge in public sector spending last year wasalso to blame for the high deficits.    Appropriations to government departments had been cut byeight pct since the budget was passed in December and foreignborrowing by municipalities had been restrained.    "We are trying make sure that public bodies stick to theinvestment programme and do not exceed their appropriations," hesaid. It was hoped to bring the public sector borrowingrequirement down to five pct of GNP in 1987 from an estimated5.6 pct in 1986.    More modest GNP growth of five pct for 1987 was alsotargeted, Tigrel said. Measures were being taken to encourageexports, and production incentives were being considered.    "We must try to make sure that more capacity is injectedinto the Turkish economy in the coming years. The promotionpolicy is geared to make sure that both foreign investment andlocal private capital come more into play as far asmanufacturing capacity is concerned," Tigrel said.    He said the process of structural adjustment of the Turkisheconomy to free market policies, begun in 1980, was still underway. Trade had been liberalised and a freer exchange ratepolicy applied, but he acknowledged there was more to be donein a country where the state still dominates industry and thecurrency is only partially convertible. REUTER
CANADA CENTRAL BANK HEAD SEES MODERATE GROWTH Bank of Canada Governor John Crow said heexpects the Canadian economy will grow moderately in the comingyear, despite the near flat growth in the final quarter of1986.    "We see moderate growth," Crow told a news conferencefollowing presentation of the central bank's annual report inthe House of Commons today.    He said there were positive signs of growth in the economy,particularly the drawdown of business inventories in the fourthquarter. Yesterday, Statistics Canada reported gross domesticproduct expanded a slight 0.2 pct in the quarter.    Crow reiterated the bank's previous statements thatinflation remains a major priority in setting monetary policyand said only zero inflation would be acceptable. Canada'sinflation rate is currently hovering around the four pct mark.    The governor said Canada's banking system remains sounddespite recent concern about exposure by the country's banks indebt plagued countries such as Brazil.    "It (the debt problem) is not a happy development but Ithink it can be overplayed in terms of its impact," Crow toldreporters. Reuter
GERMAN ECONOMIC OUTLOOK SEEN FAIRLY BRIGHT The outlook for the WestGerman economy is relatively bright, with gross nationalproduct expected to expand by three pct this year, KielUniversity's Institute for World Economy said.    The GNP forecast by the institute, one of five leadingeconomic research bodies in West Germany, is more optimisticthan that of the other institutes, some of which have recentlyreduced their GNP forecasts to between two and 2.5 pct.    In a report the Kiel institute said West Germany's exportoutlook has not deteriorated fundamentally despite the mark'sstrength against the dollar and other major currencies.    "The danger that exports will slump in 1987 appears, all inall, limited," the report said. "On the contrary, a slight risein exports can be expected."    The institute said past experience has shown West Germanexporters will move to counterbalance currency factors bycutting costs, trying to penetrate new markets and adjustingtheir product ranges.    They will be aided in 1987 by an expected slight rise ineconomic growth in industrial countries. At the same time, thedecline in exports to oil producing countries looks set to slowthis year.    West German GNP growth in 1987 will be led by renewedadvances in domestic consumption and investment spending, bothof which will in turn be buoyed by an expansionary monetarypolicy, the institute said.    However, it said the labour market would see only a slightimprovement because companies will be reluctant to hireadditional workers due to higher labour costs caused partly byagreed reductions in working hours.    The institute cautioned that the expansionary stance ofmonetary policy in West Germany was likely to bring a markedacceleration of inflation.    It also warned that what it called the worldwidesynchronization of monetary policy heightened the risk of a newglobal recession. It said central banks in industrializedcountries, including the Bundesbank, had followed the FederalReserve Board's expansionary course.    The institute said this in turn was bound to leadeventually to a rise in worldwide inflation and a shift in U.S.Policy towards a more restrictive policy. Other central bankswere likely to follow suit, causing a recession that couldaggravate the debt crisis of developing countries as well asincrease protectionism around the world.    Although Germany cannot entirely shield itself from thenegative effects of the global synchronization of monetarypolicy, it should do all it can to strengthen the forces ofgrowth at home.    The institute said this could be done by ensuring thatfiscal policy fosters a willingness to work and invest. Taxesshould be cut by a greater amount than currently planned, andwage increases in 1987 and 1988 should be markedly lower thanin 1986. It also said the Bundesbank should reduce inflationarypressures by cutting the current rate of growth in money supplyto about four pct. REUTER
DUTCH GROWTH LIKELY TO SLOW, JOBLESS RISE IN 1987 Leaks of a major Dutch officialeconomic forecast due to be published on Monday indicatereduced economic growth and a renewed rise in unemployment thisyear, political and market sources say.    Concern over an anticipated fall in Dutch competitivenessthis year against a background of an average 2-1/2 pct wageincrease, zero inflation and a firm guilder has triggered somecalls for a change in monetary policy to help boost growth.    But whatever the government's response, the central bankwill stick to its policy of keeping the guilder firm, they say.    The official forecasting agency Centraal Planbureau (CPB)publishes its 1987 outlook at the start of a week which willalso see a key parliamentary debate on government finances andthe economy.    Merchant bank Pierson, Heldring en Pierson - in an estimatereflecting general sentiment - said last month that Dutcheconomic growth was now seen around one pct.    Domestic consumer spending is not expected to offset thedecline in export growth caused by slowing growth in WestGermany, the main Dutch trading partner, and the lower dollar,Pierson said in its February economic outlook.    The latest growth forecasts are well below a 1.5 to two pctgrowth figure seen by the CPB early last month and forecasts of2.5 pct economic growth in 1987 made last September.    The fall in unemployment is bottoming out and thegovernment has already admitted it will not meet its goal ofreducing unemployment by an annual 50,000 from 1986 to 1990.    Some analysts and industry leaders have questioned centralbank policy of pegging the guilder firmly to the mark and ifnecessary keeping interest rates up to support the guilder.    Employers federation NCW chairman Fred Lempers criticisedthe guilder's revaluation in line with the West German mark inlast January's European Monetary System (EMS) realignment andexpressed concern over its effect on competitiveness.    But the employers federation VNO noted the Dutch economyhad become more competitive since 1980 and the fall of thedollar was affecting this gain more than the EMS realignment.    Some analysts also question the central bank's decision notto copy the latest Bundesbank discount rate cut and insteadlower money market rates and abolish a credit quota surcharge.    Central bank president Wim Duisenberg has defended the movesaying the bank had adjusted the rates with the most impact onthe money market, noting "the (4.5 pct) discount rate is at themoment not the most important Dutch rate because it is alreadyfar below the market rates."    Central bank officials say the heavy dependence on trade ofthe Dutch economy requires a stable exchange rate, and interestrate policies serve that goal.    Analysts noted a large capital outflow from the Netherlandsrecently as foreign investments in Dutch stock are being soldto take profits.    Loosening the tie between the guilder and the mark wouldreduce international confidence in the guilder and make it moredificult to attract foreign capital, they said, noting Dutchinterest rates rose sharply when the guilder was not revaluedcompletely in line with the mark in a 1983 EMS realignment.    Many Dutch banks have reacted favourably to the decisionnot to copy the last German discount rate cut, but Piersonwarned it could actually add to uncertainty over the guilder.    Some analysts noted friction between the Finance Ministryand the central bank, with Finance Minister Onno Ruding havingsaid before the Bundesbank discount rate cut he favoured lowerDutch rates but that the Germans should move first.    One analyst said Ruding wanted to bring interest rates downto reduce the government debt burden.    A Finance Ministry spokesman said lower interest rates wereneeded but denied any suggestion of conflicting views betweenthe ministry and the central bank. "The cabinet's policy issteady, the guilder has to stay with the mark," he said. REUTER
FED'S JOHNSON STRESSES PRICE STABILITY Federal Reserve Board Vice ChairmanManuel Johnson said that maintaining price stability wascritical to achieving non-inflationary economic growth in theworld and said that progress was being made.    "It is worth reiterating that the Federal Reserve'spromotion of price stability is critical to the successfulimplementation of virtually all of the important ingredientsfor growth," he told the Eastern Economic Association.    Johnson said initial progress has been made on a variety offronts. "Federal Reserve monetary policy, theGramm-Rudman-Hollings legislation, the G-6 agreement, and theBaker debt initiative for example all have moved us in theright direction," he said. G-6 is comprised of U.S., Britain,France, Japan, West Germany and Canada.    On the budget deficit, Johnson said meeting precisenumerical goals was less important than a continuing commitmenttoward slowing the growth of federal spending.    There was evidence deficits as a pct of Gross NationalProduct were declining and would continue to drop, he said.    But Johnson warned against reliance on inflow of foreigncapital to finance investment and the budget deficit and keepinterest rates stable.    "This situation, however, cannot continue indefinitely.Sooner or later progress must be made in controlling excessivefederal spending," he said.    A disinflationary monetary policy should continue to be themain objective of the Fed, Johnson said.    He also said a more stable and sustainable alignment ofexchange rates was needed for long-term growth.    On the trade deficit, Johnson warned against "quick fix"solutions, which he identified as excessive dollar depreciationor protectionist trade legislation.    "What is important is that we attempt to maintain healthyreturns to capital and adopt policies encouraging genuineeconomic growth," he said.    Such an approach would finance the trade deficit but allowfor its gradual resolution over time. Reuter
FEBRUARY U.S. JOBS GAINS SHOW STRONGER ECONOMY Momentum in th U.S. economy may bepicking up given solid across-the board increases in theFebruary U.S. employment report, economists said.    U.S. non-farm payroll employment rose 337,000 in February,twice what the financial markets expected. This follows a319,000 gain in January, revised down from a previouslyreported 448,000 increase.    "Even if you look at January and February together, this isstill a much stronger report than the consensus expectation inthe market," said Allan Leslie of Discount Corporation.    Economists stressed that gains in hours worked signal muchlarger gains in February U.S. production and income thanpreviously forecast.    The average work week rose 0.2 hours to 35.0 hours from34.8 hours in January. The average manufacturing work week rose0.3 hours to 41.2 hours, the longest factory work week sinceNovember 1966, the Commerce Department said.    "The gains in manufacturing employment point to a verylarge increase in industrial production of between 0.5 and 0.7pct," said Joe Carson of Chemical Bank. This compares to a 0.4pct  gain in January U.S. industrial production.    Peter Greenbaum of Smith Barney Harris Upham and Co Incnoted that the average wage rate increased to 8.87 dlrs an hourin February from 8.83 dlrs in January.    "Combined with the increase in hours worked, this meanswe'll get a pretty healthy gain in personal income vis-a-visthe wage and salary disbursement," he said.    Greenbaum said that February U.S. personal income shouldrise at least 0.5 pct after being flat in January.    He said the February employment gains are consistent withhis firm's first quarter U.S. real gross national productgrowth forecast of 3.7 pct.    Economists agreed that the employment data were negativefor the credit markets in that they signal a healthier economyand no easing in the Federal Reserve's monetary policy. Butmost said that the market need not fear tighter policy either.    "This report is another reason for the Fed to not considereasing," said Ray Stone of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Inc.    "It gives them more room to address the dollar situation," hesaid. "If they had to nudge policy tighter, they could do so,but it's most likely they'll sit and wait."    "The data have not been uniform," Stone added. "Durablegoods were weak in January and now employment is strong."    In January, U.S. durable goods orders dropped 7.5 pct,followed by a 4.0 pct drop in U.S. factory goods orders. U.S.retail sales fell 5.8 pct, and the U.S. merchandise trade gapwidened to 14.8 billion dlrs.    "Things just aren't adding up," said Steve Slifer of LehmanGoverment Securities Inc. "Consumer spending, capital spending,goverment spending, and net exports data show very weak firstquarter GNP growth of one pct," he said.    "The employment and production data point to a biginventory build-up, but that's what we thought in the fourthquarter and we only got 1.3 pct GNP growth."    Manufacturing employment gained 50,000 after falling 15,000in January. Economists estimated that 30,000 of the gain wasaccounted for by striking workers in the steel and machineryindustries returning to work.    Even so, some economists said that the manufacturing gainshave resulted from an improving trade outlook.    Jason Benderly of Goldman, Sachs and Co noted that the U.S.trade picture improved in the fourth quarter as net exportsgrew at a 20 pct annual rate while the rate of increase inimports fell to only six pct, and that it continues to improvein the first quarter.    "Not only the official statistics for the fourth quarter,but evidence of a pick up in orders from overseas for paperproducts, chemicals, high-tech goods, and capital goods showthat trade is improving," Benderley said.    "The economy is moving between extremes," he said. "Somereports are going to look bad and some good, but first quarterGNP is going to grow in the middle at about three pct."    A 287,000 gain in services employment comprised the greaterpart of February's employment gain. Retail services employmentrose 129,000 in February, compared to a gain of 117,000 inJanuary, previously reported at 166,000.    Construction employment rose a slim 2,000 in February. Butthis follows a robust 113,000 gain in January, revised downfrom a previously reported 142,000 gain.    The U.S. civilian unemployment rate was unchanged inFebruary at 6.7 pct. This means the jobless rate has stayed at6.7 pct for three consecutive months, the lowest reading sinceMarch 1980, the Commerce Department noted.    "The Federal Reserve has to be pleased with this report,"Carson said. "This takes away the Fed's flexibility to ease,but there's no reason to tighten. It's way too early for that."       Reuter
IMF URGES BELGIUM TO MAKE FURTHER SPENDING CUTS The Belgian government, whichintroduced large-scale public spending reductions last year,has been told by an International Monetary Fund team there isscope for further cuts in 1988.    The suggestion is contained in the preliminary conclusionsof the annual IMF consultations with Belgium on its economicpolicy, a copy of which was distributed to journalists at theweekly press conference following meetings of the cabinet.    The IMF team also urges Belgium to adopt a firm interestrate policy, with a particular emphasis on long-term rates.    The team's report to the government praises last year'sspending cuts, which are due to reduce 1987 government spendingby 195 billion francs, and says 1986 saw the Belgian economyperform "better, on a broader basis, than at any time so far inthe 1980s."    However, it adds that with lower inflation, stabilisationof the debt to gross national product ratio requires a muchlower budget deficit than the seven pct of GNP target thegovernment has set itself for 1989.    The government's net financing requirement was 11.0 pct ofGNP in 1986.    The report says "The most that can be afforded over the nextfew years is a zero growth of real non-interest expenditure ofgeneral Government."    It says there is a need for a revision of the Belgian taxsystem to iron out distortions and meet hopes of a reduced taxburden but substantial progress is needed in stabilising thedebt to GNP ratio before this is possible.    "Because of the difficulty of sustaining zero expendituregrowth and of likely growing impatience (for) tax reductions,we feel that your position would be stronger if you coulddecide on rather sharp expenditure reductions in 1988," thereport adds.    The IMF urges a strong interest rate policy to signal thegovernment's determination to keep its currency strong and tocurb inflation.    It says firmer long-term rates would slow private netlong-term capital outflows, which increased strongly in 1986.    It also urges net repayments of foreign currency debt andan overhaul of domestic capital markets to facilitate thesubscriptions by non-residents of government bond issues inBelgian francs. REUTER
CHILEAN GDP UP 5.7 PCT IN 1986, CENTRAL BANK SAYS chile's gross domestic product rose 5.7pct last year to 18.8 billion dollars, compared to a 2.4 pctrise in the previous year, the central bank said.    It said initial projections were for a 4.6 pct increase ingdp this year.    The sectors which registered the greatest growth in 1986were fisheries with 10 pct, agriculture at 8.7 pct, transportand communications with 8.1 pct and industry at 8.0 pct, thebank added. Reuter
GERMAN 1988 TAX CUTS RAISED BY 5.2 BILLION MARKS Senior officials in the West Germancoalition government said tax cuts planned for next year wouldbe increased by 5.2 billion marks, in line with a pledge madeby Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg at last month'sinternational monetary conference in Paris.    Gerold Tandler, General Secretary of the Christian SocialUnion Party, detailing the cuts at a news conference alsoattended by officials from the Christian Democratic Union andFree Democratic Party, said all of the additional 5.2 billionmark reduction would represent net tax relief.    An increase in revenue from other sources was not planned.    The reductions will be added on to a package of tax cutsalready planned for 1988 amounting to some nine billion marks.    Tandler said three billion marks of the extra tax reliefwould be accounted for by reducing the rate of marginalincrease in income tax.    An increase in personal tax allowances would save taxpayers1.4 billion marks. Extra tax allowances for people whosechildren are being educated would cut 300 mln marks from thetax bill. A further 500 mln marks would be accounted for byincreasing the level of special depreciations for small- andmedium-sized companies.    The extra fiscal measures planned for next year are part ofa general reform of the tax system which will come into effectin 1990. Stoltenberg had said in Paris that part of thisreform, which will cut taxes by a gross 44 billion marks, wouldbe introduced next year, ahead of schedule.    The West German government had come under pressure from theUnited States to stimulate its economy with tax cuts. ButStoltenberg said in a speech last night in Hamburg that, whilethe economy would continue to expand this year, the rate ofgrowth was uncertain.    The government said in January it was aiming for realgrowth in Gross National Product this year of 2.5 pct, but someeconomists have revised their predictions down to two or below.    Stoltenberg said: "We remain on a course of expansion.Whether (this will be) under two pct, as some people believe,or around 2.5 pct as some others expect, or even closer tothree pct, as the Kiel World Economic Institute forecast a fewdays ago, remains open at the moment." REUTER
OECD TRADE, GROWTH SEEN SLOWING IN 1987 The 24 nations of the Organisation forEconomic Cooperation and Development (OECD), hampered bysluggish industrial output and trade, face slower economicgrowth, and their joint balance of payments will swing intodeficit in 1987, the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU ) said.    The EIU said in its World Trade Forecast it revised OECDeconomic growth downwards to 2.5 pct this year, compared with a2.8 pct growth forecast in December.    It said the new areas of weakness are West Germany and thesmaller European countries it influences, and Japan, hardesthit by currency appreciation this year.    The independent research organisation cut its 1987 growthrate forecasts for West Germany to 2.2 pct from 3.2 pct inDecember and to 2.3 pct from three pct for Japan.    It said it expected the OECD to post a current accountdeficit of some 13 billion dlrs in both 1987 and 1988, due inlarge part to a 1.50 dlrs a barrel rise in 1987 oil prices.    It said the U.S. Current account deficit looked likely tofall even more slowly than forecast, to 125 billion dlrs in1987 and 115 billion in 1988 from 130 billion in 1986.    It said it expected West Germany to post a 31 billion dlrpayments surplus and Japan a 76 billion dlr surplus this year.    The EIU said it saw oil prices dropping to around 16.50dlrs a barrel by end-1987 and 15.50 dlrs in 1988 from about 18dlrs last year, as adherence to OPEC output policy becomesincreasingly ragged.    It said the dollar is poised to resume its decline inforeign exchange markets, and will lose a further 13 pct on itstrade-weighted index this year and five pct in 1988 after lastyear's 18.4 pct drop. The average mark/dollar rate is put at1.80 marks this year and 1.70 in 1988 while the yen/dollar rateis expected to break through the 150 yen barrier with anaverage value of 150 yen in 1987 and 146 yen in 1988, it said.    "This is not a crash scenario but the dollar's steeperangle of descent increases the risk of ending with a fireballrather than a three-point landing," the EIU said.    "Talking will not stop the dollar's slide for long and theFebruary meeting (of finance ministers of the Group of Five andCanada) produced scant promise of either a decisive shift tomore expansive policies in West Germany and Japan, or a tighterU.S. Fsical policy," it said.    It said the key to the dollar's fortunes was thewillingness of Japanese institutions to buy U.S. Governmentassets despite prospects of sustaining a currency loss.    "Thus far they have been willing," the EIC said, addingthat if Japan was deterred from buying U.S. bonds the dollarwould collapse.    To contain such a currency crisis, dollar interest rateswould have to soar, bringing recession and a Third World debtcrisis, it said.    On trade, the EIU said prospects for 1987 look"increasingly sick."    Import growth, forecast in December at 4.5 pct, is now seenslowing down to around 3.8 pct in 1987 with a recovery only to4.2 pct in 1988, it said.    The weakness of the West German economy is the biggestsingle factor, with import growth there expected to feature asluggish 3.5 pct growth in 1987 against the 6.5 pct forecast inDecember, the EIU said.    On the export side, it said it saw weak demand in WestGermany affecting export prospects elsewhere in Europe, whileJapan's exports in 1987 would remain flat and sales by U.S.Exporters would respond only marginally to a lower, morecompetitively-priced dollar.    It said in most of Europe and in Japan, raw materials andoil will cost less in domestic currency in 1987 than in 1986. Reuter
DUTCH PLANNING AGENCY FORECASTS LOWER GROWTH Dutch economic growth is slowing as afirming guilder cuts competitiveness abroad and industriesreduce the pace of investment, the Dutch official planningagency CPB said.    The Centraal Planbureau, publishing its 1987 economicoutlook, said Dutch Net National Income (NNI) was expected togrow by one pct this year, down from two pct growth recorded in1986 and 2.5 pct in 1985 and 1984.    Dutch Gross National Product is expected to rise to 432.20billion guilders in 1987 in constant prices, a two pct increasefrom last year's 423.95 billion.    The CPB, forecasting an 8.5 pct increase in the value ofthe guilder on a trade-weighted basis compared with 10.0 pctlast year, said the dollar was expected to trade at an averageof 2.0 guilders in 1987 compared with 2.45 guilders in 1986.    "The higher guilder is causing a substantial fall in unitlabour costs abroad, when measured in guilder terms, whilethese are rising slightly in the Netherlands," the CPB said.    More of economic growth now depended on domesticconsumption, the CPB said, but noting that higher margins setby domestic producers and importers mitigated the effect onpurchasing power of lower import costs and deflation.    Consumer prices were set to fall by 1.5 pct this year, theCPB said. Inflation was zero last year.    Gross investment in industry was expected to grow by fivepct this year, a slowdown compared with 11.5 pct growth lastyear, the CPB said.    Exchange rate and oil price fluctuations will continue tocondition the Dutch economy in the future as it has in recentyears, the CPB said, noting a continued depressing impact ofthese factors on Dutch competitiveness.    In addition, it noted a slight rise in taxation and socialsecurity costs to employers.    The CPB, forecasting a rise in the budget deficit to 7.2pct of Net National Income in 1987 from 6.3 pct last year,urged the government to cut expenditure further to bring downthe deficit and reduce tax and social security payments infuture.    Dutch government revenue is being depressed further byfalling income from natural gas sales in 1987, the CPB said.    It said unemployment was expected to fall to 675,000 thisyear from 710,000 last year.    While the two pct GDP growth forecast set by the CPB iswithin its latest forecast, issued last month, of 1.5 to twopct growth, the figure is well above recent market estimates.    Dutch merchant bank Pierson, Heldring en Pierson said inits February economic outlook that GDP growth at constantprices was expected to be 1.1 pct this year and market analystshad expected the CPB's final forecast to be below its ownlatest estimate.    "It is too early to comment because I haven't seen the wholedocument yet, but it would seem we are more pessimistic in someof our estimates," a Pierson economist said.    The CPB forecast 2.5 pct export growth in volume terms in1987, after four pct growth last year. Excluding energyexports, the 1987 figure would be two pct, it said.    Imports were set to rise by 4.5 pct this year compared withfour pct in 1986 in volume terms, the CPB said.    The balance of payments would see a sharp decline in thesurplus, to six billion guilders in 1987 compared with 12.1billion last year, the CPB forecast. REUTER
BONN SERIOUS ABOUT CURRENCY PACT, SAYS TIETMEYER West Germany takes "very seriously" therecent undertaking by major industrial countries to promoteexchange rate stability around current levels, Finance MinistryState Secretary Hans Tietmeyer said.    Talking to journalists before a meeting of EuropeanCommunity Economy and Finance Ministers here, Tietmeyerdeclined to say whether the February 22 Paris accord by theGroup of Five countries plus Canada included secret agreementsfor stabilising currencies.    But he noted the official communique said the participantsagreed to cooperate closely to foster stability of exchangerates around current levels. "We're taking this sentence veryseriously," he said.    Tietmeyer remarked that the dollar had hardly moved againstthe mark since the meeting.    He said a slowdown in West German economic growth had beencaused by sharp exchange rate swings and that the Parisagreement should help in this respect.    Economics Ministry State Secretary Otto Schlecht said theBonn government saw no current need for measures to bolster theeconomy but was paying close attention to the slower growth andhad not ruled out "appropriate and timely" action if necessary.    Schlecht and Tietmeyer were speaking ahead of a discussionby the EC ministers of the latest EC Commission report on theeconomic situation in the 12-nation bloc.    The Commission has sharply revised down expected Germangross national product growth this year to two pct from 3.2 pctpredicted last autumn and says Bonn has the most room of any ECcountry to stimulate economic activity.    Schlecht said the upturn in West Germany's economy slowedin the fourth quarter of last year and the first quarter of1987. But he said there was no cumulative downwards trend inview that would make quick remedial action necessary.    He said a number of favourable indicators such as highlevel of investment and a good climate for consumption meant arecovery could be expected, while exports would pick upslightly during the course of the year. REUTER
OECD TRADE, GROWTH SEEN SLOWING IN 1987 The 24 nations of the Organisation forEconomic Cooperation and Development (OECD), hampered bysluggish industrial output and trade, face slower economicgrowth, and their joint balance of payments will swing intodeficit in 1987, the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU ) said.    The EIU said in its World Trade Forecast it revised OECDeconomic growth downwards to 2.5 pct this year, compared with a2.8 pct growth forecast in December.    It said the new areas of weakness are West Germany and thesmaller European countries it influences, and Japan, hardesthit by currency appreciation this year.    The independent research organisation cut its 1987 growthrate forecasts for West Germany to 2.2 pct from 3.2 pct inDecember and to 2.3 pct from three pct for Japan.    It said it expected the OECD to post a current accountdeficit of some 13 billion dlrs in both 1987 and 1988, due inlarge part to a 1.50 dlrs a barrel rise in 1987 oil prices.    It said the U.S. Current account deficit looked likely tofall even more slowly than forecast, to 125 billion dlrs in1987 and 115 billion in 1988 from 130 billion in 1986.    It said it expected West Germany to post a 31 billion dlrpayments surplus and Japan a 76 billion dlr surplus this year.    The EIU said it saw oil prices dropping to around 16.50dlrs a barrel by end-1987 and 15.50 dlrs in 1988 from about 18dlrs last year, as adherence to OPEC output policy becomesincreasingly ragged.    It said the dollar is poised to resume its decline inforeign exchange markets, and will lose a further 13 pct on itstrade-weighted index this year and five pct in 1988 after lastyear's 18.4 pct drop.    The average mark/dollar rate is put at 1.80 marks this yearand 1.70 in 1988 while the yen/dollar rate is expected to breakthrough the 150 yen barrier with an average value of 150 yen in1987 and 146 yen in 1988, it said.    "This is not a crash scenario but the dollar's steeper angleof descent increases the risk of ending with a fireball ratherthan a three-point landing," the EIU said.    "Talking will not stop the dollar's slide for long and theFebruary meeting (of finance ministers of the Group of Five andCanada) produced scant promise of either a decisive shift tomore expansive policies in West Germany and Japan, or a tighterU.S. Fiscal policy," it said.    It said the key to the dollar's fortunes was thewillingness of Japanese institutions to buy U.S. Governmentassets despite prospects of sustaining a currency loss.    "Thus far they have been willing," the EIC said, adding thatif Japan was deterred from buying U.S. Bonds the dollar wouldcollapse.    To contain such a currency crisis, dollar interest rateswould have to soar, bringing recession and a Third World debtcrisis, it said.    On trade, the EIU said prospects for 1987 look "increasinglysick."    Import growth, forecast in December at 4.5 pct, is now seenslowing down to around 3.8 pct in 1987 with a recovery only to4.2 pct in 1988, it said.    The weakness of the West German economy is the biggestsingle factor, with import growth there expected to feature asluggish 3.5 pct growth in 1987 against the 6.5 pct forecast inDecember, the EIU said.    On the export side, it said it saw weak demand in WestGermany affecting export prospects elsewhere in Europe, whileJapan's exports in 1987 would remain flat and sales by U.S.Exporters would respond only marginally to a lower, morecompetitively-priced dollar.    It said in most of Europe and in Japan, raw materials andoil will cost less in domestic currency in 1987 than in 1986.    However, rates of inflation will edge up in 1988 to overthe current OECD average of three pct. Non-oil commodity priceswill show a modest dollar price increase in 1988 for the firsttime since 1984, the EIU said.    After a rise of 18 pct in 1986, the dollar price ofinternationally traded manufactures will go up by 8.5 pct in1987 and by five pct in 1988, it said.    It said OECD industrial production would rise by only 1.6pct in 1987 after a weak 1.5 pct increase in 1986. Reuter
FED WATCHERS SEE U.S. ECONOMIC, INFLATION UPTURN This year will see a pickup in U.S.economic growth and inflation, the Shadow Open Market Committeesaid in its semi-annual policy statement.    The SOMC, a group of basically "monetarist" privateeconomists, said that "economic growth will accelerate in 1987in response to powerful stimulative actions by the FederalReserve."    The group said the Fed's actions have been excessive. As aresult, it said that "inflation and ultimately anotherrecession now loom on the horizon."    The SOMC said that central bank policies that rely onprogressively larger swings in monetary expansion will not leadto sustainable economic growth and stable prices.    The group made no specific nominal forecasts of economic orinflation growth in its policy statement. However, theCommittee at its Sunday policy-making meeting said it wasbasically in accord with projections by Jerry Jordan, who is amember of the SOMC and economist at First Interestate Bancorp.    Jordan expects real GNP growth to be about one percentagepoint higher than in the past two years. He expects consumerprices to rise about 4-1/2 pct this year.    The SOMC said in recent months rapid money growth has beena principal cause of the devaluation. To avoid another costlyinflation and disinflation, the SOMC urged the Fed to "abandonits inflationary policy and set the growth rate of the monetarybase on the path toward sustained lower inflation."    The Fed in February said it would no longer target thenarrow M-1 money supply because the link between M-1 andeconomic growth has been largely severed.
WORLD BANK REPORT CRITICISES PERU ECONOMIC PLAN a confidential world bank report on theperuvian economy said the government's strategy does not offergood prospects for medium and long-term growth and is likely toquickly lead to inflation.    The report, published today by an economic monthly, theperu report, said the success of president alan garcia'sgovernment in stimulating output last year to achieve eight pctgross domestic product growth "represents gains in the shortterm at the expense of the long."    Government officials had no immediate comment on thereport, which advised a reduction in the overall size of thepublic investment programme and greater emphasis on thepreservation of peru's export potential.    The report said that although the government had succeededin cutting inflation 50 pct a year in the first half of 1985 tounder 70 pct, its stabilisation and reactivation programme wasencountering increasing difficulties.    "an early renewal of inflationary pressures, linked tomonetary expansion, exchange rate devaluation and an easing ofprice controls, appears not improbable," it added.
MINISTERS FEEL EC FORECASTS TOO PESSIMISTIC European Community finance ministersdiscussed the economic outlook for the 12-nation bloc and manysaid a recent gloomy forecast by the EC Commission was toopessimistic.    The Commission, the EC's executive authority, two weeks agocut its forecast for economic growth in the Community to 2.3per cent for this year from 2.8 per cent predicted last autumn.    It said economic prospects had been less promising over thepast few months because of a sharp fall in the value of thedollar and a slowing of world trade -- factors which wouldrestrain Community exports.    But diplomats said several member states, led by WestGermany, Britain and France, felt the forecast was too gloomy,especially since it was drafted before a recent agreementbetween the leading Western economic powers to stabilisecurrencies around current levels.    "Many delegations feel the (Commission's) report is rathertoo pessimistic," said Belgian Finance Minister Mark Eyskens,who chaired the meeting.    The Commission, which slashed its growth forecast for WestGermany to two per cent from 3.2 per cent, has made clear itfeels Bonn has room to introduce additional measures tostimulate its economy that would benefit the rest of Europe.    But two top German officials, State Secretaries OttoSchlecht and Hans Tietmeyer, told reporters Bonn saw no need atthe moment for action to bolster the EC's biggest economy.    The diplomats said they were backed by Britain and France,while Italy, Greece and Denmark supported the Commission's viewthat Bonn should bring in new measures to aid EC growth.
WORLD BANK REPORT CRITICISES PERU ECONOMIC PLAN A confidential World Bank report on thePeruvian economy has said the government's strategy does notoffer good prospects for medium and long-term growth and islikely to lead to an early renewal of inflationary pressure.    The report, published today by the economic monthly, ThePeru Report, said the success of president Alan Garcia'sgovernment in stimulating output last year to achieve a growthin gross domestic product of over eight pct "represents gains inthe short term at the expense of the long."    Government officials had no immediate comment on thereport, which advised a reduction in the overall size of thepublic investment program and greater emphasis on thepreservation of Peru's export potential.    The report said that although the government had succeededin cutting inflation from 250 pct a year in the first half of1985 to under 70 pct, its stabilisation and reactivationprogram was encountering rising difficulties.    "An early renewal of inflationary pressures, linked tomonetary expansion, exchange rate devaluation and an easing ofprice controls, appears not improbable," it added.    The world bank report said the government's policies hadreduced inflation and short-term increases in consumption atthe apparent cost of price distortions, overvaluation of thecurrency, balance of payments disequilibrium, reserve losses,and sharply diminished creditworthiness.    It said unless the government took action quickly to fix acompetitive exchange rate and control the public sectordeficit, "the higher the probability will be that the governmentwill eventually have to resort to drastic curtailment ofdomestic demand and either sharp devaluation or still furthercontrols on imports in order to stem inflation and support thebalance of payments."    It said the bank would place more emphasis on thepreservation of peru's export potential, external links andoverall economic efficiency.    The government's incentive policies towards the mining andpetroleum sectors, among its main traditional exports,suggested that it did not accord high priority to theireconomic viability, it added. Reuter
CORRECTED - AUSTRIA 1987 GROWTH FORECAST REVISED Austrian gross domestic product growthfor this year is likely to be between 0.5 and 1.5 pct, HelmutKramer, head of the semi-official Institute for EconomicResearch (WIFO) said.    This compared with a two pct growth forecast made by theWIFO last December.    Kramer made the forecast at a meeting today on Austria'seconomic outlook also attended by Chancellor Franz Vranitzky,Finance Minister Ferdinand Lacina and National Bank PresidentStefan Koren. REUTER
MALAYSIA OPTIMISTIC OVER ECONOMIC OUTLOOK FOR 1987 Malaysia's Central Bank, BankNegara, said the economic outlook for 1987 is good in view of amarked improvement in commodity and oil prices in the latermonths of last year.    It said in its latest quarterly review that real grossdomestic product averaged an annual growth of 1.1 pct over thefirst nine months of last year compared with a decline of 0.1pct in the corresponding period in 1985.    Growth was generated mainly by the manufacturing sector, itadded. REUTER
GERMAN BANKS SAY UNCERTAINTY ABOUT ECONOMY GROWING Uncertainty is growing about the prospectsfor the economy as orders for industry fall and companies scaleback investment plans, the German Savings Banks and GiroAssociation said.    Exporters expect foreign demand to remain weak, whileindustry is less optimistic than it was, the association saidin a report.    However, last month's agreement among the six leadingwestern industrialized countries to keep currencies aroundpresent levels was expected to be a stabilizing influence forexporters, it added.    The banking association said the possibility of usingmonetary policy to stimulate the economy should not beoverestimated.    Another small drop in already low interest rates could notbe expected to cause any significant rise in purchases ofconsumer or capital goods, it said.    The Bundesbank's half-point cuts in the discount andLombard rates in January have largely exhausted the scope forany further monetary moves, the association added.    On Tuesday the Federal Statistics Office said grossnational product stagnated in real, seasonally and calendaradjusted terms in the fourth quarter of 1986 compared with thethird quarter.    The Economics Ministry, commenting on the figures, said GNPin the 1987 first quarter was also expected to be relativelyweak.    Bank economists have forecast the economy will eitherstagnate or contract slightly in the first quarter. Officialfirst-quarter figures are due in early June. REUTER
BOLIVIA TO OFFER TO BUY BACK BANK DEBT Bolivia is to make a formal offer duringthe next few months to buy back its 900 mln dlrs debt fromcommercial banks at a discount of up to 90 pct, central bankpresident Jier Nogales said.     Nogales told Reuters in an interview the steeringcommittee of Bolivia's creditor banks had agreed to considerthe offer at a meeting in New York last month.     He said the offer would be based on the value of Bolivianpaper on the international secondary debt market, where it nowtrades at between 10 and 15 pct of its face value.    Nogales said Bolivia will make a single offer to buy backits commercial debt and banks who accepted would be paid thediscounted rate in full.    Banks which declined the offer would be repaid over 20 to30 years at interest rates below those fixed in theinternational markets, he added.    Bolivia has frozen payments on medium and long term loansto commercial banks since March, 1984, and Nogales said therewould be no money available to restart traditional debtservicing to them for some time.     Several Latin American countries have initiated schemes tocancel foreign debt by equity swaps or third party buy-backs,but Bolivia would be the first country in the region to make aformal offer to buy back all its commercial bank debt atdiscounted rates.    Nogales said practical and strategic considerations woulddetermine the exact timing of the offer but it would be made inthe next few months.     He said Bolivia would not bargain with creditor banks overthe price to paid for the debt paper they hold, and would makea single non-negotiable offer.    He said Bolivia could not even pay interest to friendlycreditor countries, let alone commercial banks. The onlytraditional way forward was to capitalise interest, which wouldmean greater bank exposure in Bolivia and greater lossprovisions, he added.    "We are confident that the banks are going to bereasonable," Nogales said. "Now they can resolve their problemsfor once and for all."    "The most conservative ones who want a little more willwait a year, but I don't know if the window of opportunity willbe open all the time," he added.    Discussing the status of other parts of Bolivia's fourbillion dlr foreign debt, 2.5 billion of which is owed togovernments and the rest to international agencies, Nogalessaid negotiators had achieved considerable success in recentdiscussions with the Paris Club.     He said Paris Club creditors had agreed to rescheduleBolivian debt over 10 years with five to six years grace, whileaccepting that interest would not be paid until 1989. Interestrates were being discussed on a bilateral basis under ParisClub rules, he added.     He said some Paris Club members had agreed to disregardpenalty interest payments and negotiations were continuing withArgentina and Brazil, who hold 700 mln dlrs of Bolivian debt.    He said Bolivia was continuing to service loans frominternational agencies, and it expected to receive up to 400mln dlrs in disbursements this year.    The capital flow for loans and their servicing had changedfrom a negative balance of 250 mln dlrs in 1985 to a net inflowof 130 mln dlrs last year, he added.    Nogales said that Bolivia's net international reserves nowstood at around 250 mln dlrs, compared to one mln dlrs indisposable funds when the government of Victor Paz Estenssorotook office in August, 1985.    Nogales said inflation, which soared to over 20,000 pct ayear in the government's first month in office, was now down to10 pct on an annualised basis from the last six months, and theplan was that it should continue at this level.    He said the government was also expecting at least threepct growth in gdp this year after several years of negativerates. Reuter
VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT DEFENDS REFINANCING ACCORD president jaime lusinchi defended the20.3 billion dlr debt rescheduling accord his governmentrecently signed, saying it will open new credit flows and bringneeded foreign investment to venezuela.    In his annual state of the nation speech, lusinchi alsosaid venezuela supports other latin american debtors, despitehaving reached a rescheduling accord on its own.    In the 90-minute speech to the congress, lusinchi summed upthe achievements of his administration, which took office infebruary 1984. He pointed to the 3.3 pct growth in non-oil gdpin 1986 and to a "moderate" 12 pct inflation rate.    Lusinchi said the 20.3 billion dlr debt rescheduling signedfeb. 27 put an end to a process which had been 'the calvary ofour nation over the post four years.'    In the refinancing accord, he said, venezuela managed toachieve 'the most inmportant thing, which is the reopening offinancial flows from abroad, essential for the financing ofdevelopment and the (financing) of trade and investment.'    Once all the details of the agreement are finalized, hesaid, venezuela will seek new financing for the importedcomponents of new development projects.    "our intention is not to continue being net exporters ofcapital, but to protect our balance of payments with a flow ofcapital towards venezuela," he said.    Under the agreement signed february 27, venezuela extendedpayments on the debt from 12 to 14 years, while the interestrate was lowered from 1 y 1/8 to 7/8 of a pct over libor.    At the same time, payments over the next three years werelowered from 3.450 to 1.350 billion dlrs.    Lusinchi defended the rescheduling accord against criticswho said it merely deferred the weight of payments to futuregovernments. Reuter
U.S. OFFICIALS DISAGREE ON REDUCING BUDGET DEFICIT Senior U.S. Economic officialsdisagree on the likelihood the government can meet its budgetdeficit reduction targets.    Beryl Sprinkel, chairman of the Council of EconomicAdvisers, reiterated the Reagan Administration's opposition toa tax increase and its pledge to reduce the deficit by cuttingspending and fostering economic growth.    By contrast, Rudolph Penner, Director of the CongressionalBudget Office, said the budget process has broken down and thedeficit will remain close to 200 billion dlrs for fiscal 1987.    Sprinkel told a symposium sponsored by New York Universitythat spending could be cut by avoiding decisions based on thedesire to influence votes and by shifting the responsibilityfor local projects to state governments.    He also suggested a line-item veto, which allows thePresident to veto parts of bill without rejecting all of it, tolimit wasteful spending. Spending and taxing decisions shouldbe linked more closely.    Sprinkel said the Administration still looks for 2.7 pctgrowth in U.S. Real gross national product (GNP) in 1987 and3.5 pct in 1988.    Asked if the latest economic reports signal this rate ofeconomic growth is attainable, Sprinkel said, "It looks prettygood to me. We've had two very strong employment reports."    He also said federal reserve policy is appropriate, adding,"It looks like they're on track."    While further reductions are needed in the trade deficit,Sprinkel said the lower dollar is having an impact.    The new 1987 tax laws will not hurt the economy and the taxreform act of 1986 significantly lowers tax rates and willgreatly increase private production incentives, he said.    "Our estimates at the Council of Economic Advisers suggestnational net output of goods and services will permanentlyincrease by approximately two pct because of the long-runconsequences of tax reform," Sprinkel said. "In 1986, this wouldhave amounted to an increase of approximately 600 dlrs in theincome of the average American family."    Sprinkel also argued the 1981 tax cuts were not responsiblefor the large increase in the budget deficit.    In fiscal 1986 ending September, federal spending amountedto 23.8 pct of GNP, while federal receipts absorbed 18.5 pct ofGNP, leaving a deficit of 5.3 pct, he said.    Sprinkel said that, compared with fiscal 1978, the 1986federal expenditure share of GNP is 2.7 percentage pointshigher and the revenue share of GNP is virtually the same.    "Contrary to the conventional wisdom, therefore, the 1981tax cut is not the root cause of the extraordinary budgetdeficits of the past few years," Sprinkel said.    "This tax cut merely rolled back the inflation-induced taxincreases that occurred between 1978 and 1981," he added.    However, the Congressional Budget Office's Rudolph Pennerargued that the tax cut in 1981 was misguided.    "Since making the big mistake in 1981 of cutting taxesenormously without any plan to decrease spending by theAdministration or Congress, indeed with increases in defencespending, now all the options (for reducing the budget deficit)are unpleasant," he said.    Penner said the tax cut resulted from the ideologicalturmoil in the U.S. Caused by the "biggest sustained inflationin our nation's history," which helped foster widespreaddistrust of government.    "The American people turned on the government with taxrevolt at the state level and new demands on the government atthe national level," Penner said.    "But their dislike of taxes exceeded their general dislikeof spending programs. Now the correction of that 1981 mistakedemands that the system change a lot."    Penner sees little hope the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budgetdeficit reduction targets will be met and said the deficit willremain at roughly 200 billion dlrs this year.    He said a budget process that sets targets arbitrarily isnot likely to succeed.    "I feel pretty safe in saying that any process that tries todictate a numerical outcome from above is doomed to fail simplybecause there's no ... Way to enforce it," Penner said.    Penner questioned the methods by which the 1987 budgetdeficit was cut. He said 18 to 19 billion dlrs were eliminatedby one-time measures, such as a temporary increase in taxesrelated to tax reform and sales of government assets.    "Another four billion dlrs was cut by what I call creativetiming changes, like moving the military payday from the lastday of fiscal 1987 to the first day of fiscal 1988. That savedmore than two billion dlrs," Penner said. REUTER
FED SEEN CONTENT WITH U.S. FEBRUARY ECONOMY U.S. February reports reflecting slimgains in industrial output and moderating inflation pressuresreinforced expectations that the Federal Reserve will continueto follow a stable course of monetary policy, economists said.    "If you're the Fed, there's no reason to do anything," saidSteve Slifer of Lehman Government Securities Inc.    "There are hints that GNP is picking up. On the inflationfront, all is well," he said. "Money supply is well undercontrol. It's an absolutely ideal situation."    February U.S. industrial production rose 0.5 pct, slightlyless than the 0.7 pct gain the financial markets had expected.This compared with a slim 0.1 pct rise in January's productionnumber, previously reported as a 0.4 pct increase.    The February U.S. producer price index gained only 0.1 pct,less than a 0.3-0.4 pct expected rise. This followed a 0.6 pctrise in the PPI in January.    "The Fed is going to look at this positively," said AllanLeslie of Discount Corporation. "Certainly inflation is not asbad as what Volcker (Fed Chairman) has said lately. Industrialproduction growth is along the lines of what the Fed wants."    The energy products component of PPI rose 4.0 pct inFebruary, after a 9.8 pct increase in January.    "This shows that the impact of energy prices on inflationis behind us in terms of the move from 15 dlrs to 18 dlrs perbarrel," said Maria Ramirez of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. "Thetrend is still 3.5 pct in the first half of the year."    In 1986, declining energy prices contributed to a 2.5 pctdecline in the PPI.    Economists said that a rise in energy prices was expected,but a sharp drop in auto prices was not. Passenger car pricesfell 3.4 pct and light truck prices dropped 1.3 pct.    Yesterday, Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker said thata possibility of renewed inflation remains a concern in boththe financial markets and the Federal Reserve.    "The Fed may be lowering its own inflation expectationstoday," said Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities International.    While low inflation permits the Fed to maintain an easiermonetary policy, Brusca said if import prices do not rise thiscould necessitate a weaker dollar.    "The outlook for the dollar is still up in the air," hesaid. "We need inflation for U.S. producers to compete withforeign producers."    Brusca said prices of electronic equipment dropped 0.8 pctin February's PPI. With many electronic goods producedoverseas, this may show that foreign producers are not raisingprices which bodes ill for U.S. competitiveness, he said.    If further dollar declines are needed, this could diminishoverseas investment in U.S. debt, Brusca added, which mightnecessitate higher interest rates and lower bond prices.    By contrast, Slifer said imported goods prices rose 11.8pct from first quarter 1985 to first quarter 1986 reflecting toa large degree a 22 pct drop in the trade-weighted real valueof the dollar from February 1985 to February 1987.    Slifer said import prices may rise further asmanufacturers' contracts put in place before the dollar droppedto current levels expire, and new contracts are made thatreflect a weaker dollar.    David Wyss of Data Resources Inc noted that importedmanufactured goods prices rose 8.5 pct at an annual rate in thesecond half of 1986, which has contributed to rising U.S.industrial output.    "It's the other side of the lower dollar," Wyss said."Producers are beginning to find themselves more competitiveand they are increasing output."    Wyss said that the latest data point to an averageindustrial production gain of 0.3-0.4 pct in the first quarter."It's an encouraging sign that the manufacturing sector isbeginning to revive."    But Stephen Roach of Morgan Stanley and Co Inc was not convinced that the February reports portend economic gains. Hesaid much of the strength came from factors that do not pointto a sustained rise in industrial output.    Roach pointed out that stikers returning to work in farmequipment industries helped account for a one pct rise inFebruary business equipment production.    Utilities output rose 0.7 pct in February after gaining 1.2pct in January, but Roach said it shows mostly that more energywas produced, not that manufacturing activity gained.    Finally, he pointed out that auto production accounted forhalf of the industrial production gain as production of autoassemblies rose to 8.3 million units at an annual rate from 7.5million units.    "In the first quarter, it looks like automakers areproducing at an 8.5 mln unit annual rate, but selling atroughly a seven mln unit rate," Roach said. "The disparitybetween output and sales is showing up in inventories."    Economists pointed to sharp rise in January U.S. businessinventories as a sign that production may be outstrippingdemand in the first quarter of 1987.    January business inventories rose 0.9 pct, the largest gainsince July 1979 when inventories rose 1.7 pct, the CommerceDepartment said. Business sales dropped 4.5 pct in January, thelargest monthly sales drop on record.    Nonetheless, economists do not expect the Fed to react tomonth-to-month changes. "The Fed has been standing pat for thelast seven months," Ramirez said. "They will continue to standpat for at least the next couple of months." Reuter
BANK OF JAPAN SATISFIED WITH YEN AT CURRENT RANGE The Bank of Japan is satisfied with theyen around its current range, a senior central bank officialtold reporters.    He said the pledge by major industrial nations in Parislast month to cooperate to hold exchange rates around currentranges applied in both directions, a dollar fall or a dollarrise.    Unilateral intervention itself cannot ensure currencystability, but it can be useful when coordinated with otherpolicies and with other central banks, he said.    The Bank of Japan is rather confident currency stabilitywill continue for some time, the senior bank official said, butdeclined to be more specific.    Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told parliament on Fridaythe current dollar/yen exchange rate is not necessarilysatisfactory for the Japanese economy.    Asked what factors might destabilize the markets, theofficial cited a lessening of market fear about intervention, acompletely unexpected change in the economy of Japan, the U.S.Or West Germany, or resumption of comments by governmentofficials seeking to talk the dollar up or down.    The senior bank official said he expects Japan's grossnational product (GNP) to grow three pct or slightly more inthe fiscal year beginning in April. That would be littlechanged from the performance expected this year.    Domestic demand may grow nearly four pct in 1987/88, butthe external sector will have a negative impact on GNP ofnearly one percentage point, he said.    He said there was virtually no room for further monetarypolicy action to boost the economy. The economy's performancein the future very much depends on fiscal policy, he added.    The central bank's monetary policy has already done itspart in stimulating the economy, the senior bank official said.The Bank of Japan has cut its discount rate five times over thelast year and a half.    Although the central bank does not see any imminent risk ofinflation, there could be some problems in the future, he said."We are sitting on a barrel of powder, but fortunately it maystill be wet," he added.    Liquidity among private households and especially thecorporate sector has increased substantially, he said.    The liquidity is the reason for the recent boom of stockexchange prices, the bank official said. This inflow of fundsinto the stock exchange, occurring also in other countries, maycontinue, he said.    The senior official said the Bank of Japan is hopingFederal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker will be re-appointed whenhis current term expires later this year.    "He's a great man," the official said, adding that more andmore people expect his reappointment.    Turning to exchange rates, the official said thesubstantial drop in the dollar is beginning to have an effecton reducing the imbalance in world trade, even though theimpact has taken longer than expected to show through. Even theU.S. Trade position has begun to feel the impact, although sofar it has not been very strong, he said. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN SATISFIED WITH YEN AT CURRENT RANGE The Bank of Japan is satisfied with theyen around its current range, a senior central bank officialtold reporters.    He said the pledge by major industrial nations in Parislast month to cooperate to hold exchange rates around currentranges applied in both directions, a dollar fall or a dollarrise.    Unilateral intervention itself cannot ensure currencystability, but it can be useful when coordinated with otherpolicies and with other central banks, he said.    The Bank of Japan is rather confident currency stabilitywill continue for some time, the senior bank official said, butdeclined to be more specific.    Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told parliament on Fridaythe current dollar/yen exchange rate is not necessarilysatisfactory for the Japanese economy.    Asked what factors might destabilize the markets, theofficial cited a lessening of market fear about intervention, acompletely unexpected change in the economy of Japan, the U.S.Or West Germany, or resumption of comments by governmentofficials seeking to talk the dollar up or down.    The senior bank official said he expects Japan's grossnational product (GNP) to grow three pct or slightly more inthe fiscal year beginning in April. That would be littlechanged from the performance expected this year.    Domestic demand may grow nearly four pct in 1987/88, butthe external sector will have a negative impact on GNP ofnearly one percentage point, he said.    He said there was virtually no room for further monetarypolicy action to boost the economy. The economy's performancein the future very much depends on fiscal policy, he added.    The central bank's monetary policy has already done itspart in stimulating the economy, the senior bank official said.The Bank of Japan has cut its discount rate five times over thelast year and a half.    Although the central bank does not see any imminent risk ofinflation, there could be some problems in the future, he said."We are sitting on a barrel of powder, but fortunately it maystill be wet," he added.    Liquidity among private households and especially thecorporate sector has increased substantially, he said.    The liquidity is the reason for the recent boom of stockexchange prices, the bank official said. This inflow of fundsinto the stock exchange, occurring also in other countries, maycontinue, he said. REUTER
BELGIUM REVISES DOWN 1987 GNP GROWTH FORECASTS The Belgian government has lowered itsforecast for the nominal increase in gross national product in1987 to 3.5 pct from an originally forecast 3.9 pct, PrimeMinister Wilfried Martens said in a statement to parliament.    He said this revision, which brings government forecastsmore closely into line with those by private institutions,takes account of an anticipated slowdown in the world economyand international trade.    But he said the impact on the Belgian economy will belimited due to recent agreements on wages and workingconditions agreed by employers and unions.    Martens did not say how much the government expected GNP togrow in volume terms.    However, last month the government's Planning Bureau saidit had revised its 1987 forecast for this to 0.9 pct from 2.0pct.    In 1986, Belgium's gross national product rose 2.15 pct involume terms against a 5.9 pct nominal rise. REUTER
BANKS SEE GERMAN GROWTH OF AT LEAST TWO PCT External risks for the economy haveincreased, but growth of two to 2.5 pct this year is stillpossible, according to President of the West German Federationof Banks, Hanns Christian Schroeder-Hohenwarth.    Schroeder-Hohenwarth told a news conference the furtherfall of the dollar since the start of this year and therevaluation of the mark against European currencies meant WestGerman exporters were facing a "rough wind."    However, domestic demand was continuing to rise and privateconsumption in particular would support the economy, he said.He saw good prospects for consumer industries.    Schroeder-Hohenwarth said economic policy now had toconcentrate on strengthening this domestic growth. In thiscontext, he welcomed a decision by the government to increasethe scope of tax cuts due in 1988.    He added, a planned reform of the fiscal system scheduledfor 1990, which was worked out by coalition partners thismonth, was an "important step in the right direction."    The government plans to cut corporation tax to 50 pct from56 pct. However, Schroeder-Hohenwarth said the decision to cutthe maximum rate of income tax to only 53 pct from 56 pct was"rather half-hearted." REUTER
BRAZIL SAYS DEBT CRISIS IS WORLD PROBLEM Brazilian Finance MinisterDilson Funaro said his country's foreign debt crisis could onlybe solved by changes in the international financial system.    Speaking to a business conference he said "It is not Brazilthat has to make adjustments with the IMF (InternationalMonetary Fund). It is the international financial communitythat is taking away resources from the developing countries."    "The crisis is not in Brazil, a country that has had thethird biggest trade surplus ...In the past two years Brazil hadremitted 24 billion dlrs in debt servicing and received onlytwo billion in fresh funds," he added.    Funaro said that during his recent trip to the U.S., Europeand Japan to explain Brazil's decision last month to suspendinterest payments on 68 billion dlrs of commercial debt, hestressed the country's commitment to growth.    "We need to and will make the effort (to solve the debtproblem) but we cannot make an effort that means we stopgrowing," he said, adding that political and not purelycommercial solutions were needed to the debt crisis.    Brazil, whose 108 billion dlr foreign debt is the largestin the developing world, has been under pressure from officialand private creditors to work out an economic adjustmentprogram with the IMF to combat rocketing inflation and foreignpayments problems.    President Jose Sarney's government has repeatedly refusedto approach the Fund, arguing that an IMF programme would leadto recession. Funaro said that in his talks with creditors hehad tried to restore credibility in the country in the hope offinding a lasting solution to the debt problem.    "We are negotiating so that the debt question should not beone of continuous crisis."    To sustain internal growth Brazil would have to import moremachinery and equipment this year and export fewer rawmaterials. The country was thus targetting a fall in thisyear's trade surplus to 8.0 billion dlrs from 1986's 9.5billion.    Domestically, Funaro said economies had led to a reductionin the public sector deficit to 2.7 pct of gross domesticproduct in 1986, the lowest for many years and that this shouldfall to 1.5 pct this year. REUTER
BELGIAN GOVERNMENT TO CUT FINANCIAL REQUIREMENT Belgian Prime Minister WilfriedMartens announced to Parliament a plan to reduce the 1987government financing requirement by 20.6 billion francs.    He said this will enable the requirement to be held to419.7 billion francs, against the previous government target of417.8 billion, or eight pct of gross national product.    Martens said following a lowering of government estimatesof 1987 nominal GNP growth and a re-estimation by governmentdepartments of 1987 spending, the government calculated thatunless action was taken, the requirement would exceed thetarget by 22.5 billion francs.    Martens said the plan involved raising non-fiscal receiptsby 5.8 billion francs and reducing spending by 14.3 billion.The remaining 0.5 billion francs will be raised throughtreasury operations.    Martens said the money is being found through a series ofsmall economies and confirmed that it includes the raising oftwo billion francs through the sale of part of the government's50 pct holding in the gas company Distrigaz.    Last year, the government announced a major programdesigned to cut 1987 spending by 195 billion francs.    The program was designed to get Belgium out of what thegovernment said was a "snowball effect" under which thegovernment constantly borrowed more to finance budget deficitswhich were due largely to the cost of servicing and repayingexisting debt.    In 1986, the government financing requirement is estimatedat 561 billion francs or 11.0 pct of GNP. REUTER
JAPAN TO RELEASE GNP FIGURES LATER TODAY The Economic Planning Agency willannounce gross national product (GNP) figures for theOctober/December quarter today at 1700 hrs local time (0800gmt), Agency officials told Reuters.    In the July/September quarter, GNP rose 0.6 pct from theprevious three months. REUTER
Japan October/December GNP up 0.8 pct (July/Sept revised 0.7 rise) -  Japan's gross national product (GNP) rosea real 0.8 pct in the October/December quarter after anupwardly revised 0.7 pct increase the previous three months,the Economic Planning Agency (EPA) said.    The rise in the July/September quarter had originally beenput at 0.6 pct. The annualized growth rate accelerated to 3.2pct in October/December from 3.0 pct in July/September.    In the 1986 calendar year, GNP rose 2.5 pct, after a 4.7pct increase in 1985. Last year's performance was the worstsince 1974, when GNP fell 1.4 pct. Agency officials blamed thestrong yen for depressing exports and manufacturing industry.    In nominal terms, GNP rose 0.5 pct in the October/Decemberquarter, reflecting stable prices, after a one pct increase inthe previous three months, the Agency said.    Domestic real demand increased 0.6 pct in October/December,after a one pct rise the previous quarter.    Domestic demand contributed 0.5 percentage point to realGNP growth in October/December, while foreign trade added 0.2.The figures do not tally exactly due to rounding.    In July/September, domestic demand contributed onepercentage point to GNP growth while foreign trade knocked off0.3 point.    Of the 0.2 point contribution of foreign trade to GNP lastquarter, falling exports knocked off 0.2 while falling importscontributed 0.4 point.    Total export volume fell 1.2 pct quarter on quarter inOctober/December. Imports also fell, by 2.9 pct.    Of the 0.5 point contribution of domestic demand toOctober/December GNP growth, the private sector accounted for0.4 point and the public sector, 0.2.    The private sector contribution included 0.3 point forhousebuilding, 0.4 for corporate capital outlays and 0.1 forstockbuilding. Consumer spending had a 0.4 negative impact. REUTER
JAPAN OFFICIALS SEE DIFFICULTY HITTING GNP TARGET The government will find it verydifficult to achieve its new gross national product (GNP)forecast of three pct growth in the fiscal year ending March31, Economic Planning Agency officials said.    They made the comment to reporters after news that GNP rose0.8 pct in the October/December quarter, after a 0.7 pctincrease the previous three months.    For Japan to achieve three pct growth in 1986/87, GNP inthe January/March period would have to grow 2.6 pct fromOctober/December, the officials said. The government loweredits GNP forecast for 1986/87 from four pct last December. REUTER
ZIMBABWE GDP RISES 0.2 PCT IN 1986 Zimbabwe's real gross domestic productincreased 0.2 pct in 1986, according to preliminary figurespublished by the Central Statistical Office (CSO). Thiscontrasts with a rise of more than nine pct in 1985.    The main reason for the slower rate of economic growth wasa drop in the real value of agricultural output. This declined12 pct in 1986 following a 24 pct improvement the previousyear. Mining output fell one pct in 1986 but manufacturingproduction increased 1.4 pct.    The CSO said that at current prices GDP rose 12.7 pct to8.2 billion Zimbabwe dlrs, but inflation, measured by the GDPdeflator, was estimated at 12.2 pct, so there was virtually nogrowth in real output during 1986. REUTER
ECONOMISTS SEE SLUGGISH JAPANESE ECONOMY AHEAD The Japanese economy will remain sluggishin the months ahead after turning in its worst performance for12 years in 1986, private economists said.    Consumer spending, a main driving force of domestic demand,was likely to remain lacklustre although brisk housing andbusiness investment would help sustain the economy this year,the economists said.    They said they were shocked by an Economic Planning Agencyreport today that private spending fell 0.7 pct in the Oct/Decquarter for the first time in 12 years.    The report said Japan's gross national product rose a real0.8 pct in Oct/Dec after a revised 0.7 pct increase in theprevious quarter.    It said GNP growth for 1986 was a real 2.5 pct, down from4.7 pct in 1985. Agency officials said this was the worstperformance since 1974 when GNP contracted 1.4 pct in the wakeof the first oil crisis.    They expressed concern about the 0.7 pct decline inconsumer spending in the final quarter of 1986 but said it wasonly temporary as exceptionally warm winter weather haddepressed retail sales.    But most private economists disagreed and said consumerswere likely to remain pessimistic in coming months as they sawtheir real income level off.    "Sure, consumers may have spent less on winter clothes orheating apparatus because of the warm winter this year, butthey have done so because they have become even more uneasyabout their future pay rises," said Shoji Saito, general managerof Mitsui Bank's economic research division.    He said the outlook for pay increases was gloomy because of falling employment in many industries, particularly those hithard by the yen's rise.    Masao Suzaki, senior economist at the Bank of Tokyo, saidweakened consumer confidence was the most worrying factor.Without brisk consumer spending, Japan can hardly achievedomestically generated economic growth as the government hasput a lid on fiscal measures, he said.    Other economists said the 0.8 pct growth registered inOct/Dec may have been inflated by special factors, includingexceptionally heavy spending in the public sector. JohsenTakahashi, chief economist at Mitsubishi Research Institute,said the 14.4 pct increase in public sector spending in Oct/Decresulted from an issue of gold coins.    "This is just a one-shot spending and we can't expect thathigh level of public-sector consumption in the followingquarter," Takahashi said. Agency officials said public spendingwould have risen 1.1 pct in Oct/Dec without the issue, whichmarked 60 years of Emperor Hirohito's reign.    Takahashi said the economy might contract in the currentquarter given the lack of additional significant governmentspending and sluggish consumer spending.    Saito said the most effective government action would beincome tax cuts and the postponement beyond next January of aproposed controversial sales tax. REUTER
 U.K. Chancellor forecast in budget speech GDP growth of 3.0 pct Period ended Jan 31    Net loss 89,255 vs loss 277,536    Sales 913,136 vs 854,194    Six mths    Net profit 481,372 vs loss 555,722    Sales 1,845,532 vs 1,754,076 Reuter
U.K. BUDGET SEES 1987 GDP GROWTH AT THREE PCT Chancellor of the Exchequer NigelLawson, presenting his budget for fiscal 1987/88 to Parliament,said U.K. Economic growth was forecast at three pct in calendar1987.    He said the Treasury expected a current account balance ofpayments deficit in 1987 of 2.5 billion stg, after a 1.1billion shortfall in 1986.    Inflation is expected to be 4.0 pct at the end of thisyear, Lawson said.    "As I forecast in the Autumn Statement, inflation maycontinue to edge up for a time, perhaps exceeding 4.5 pct bythe summer, before falling back to 4.0 pct by the end of theyear," he added.    Turning to the Public Sector Borrowing Requirement (PSBR),Lawson said the likely outturn for fiscal 1986/87 was 4.0billion stg, or 1.0 pct of GDP.    The planned PSBR for 1987/88 was set at 4.0 billion stg.    On monetary policy, Lawson confirmed the target range forthe narrow M0 measure would be two to six pct in fiscal1987/88.    No explicit target was set for the broad sterling M3aggregate, he said. "But broad money will continue to be takeninto account in assessing monetary conditions, as of coursewill the exchange rate," the Chancellor told Parliament.    Lawson said the low outturn of the PSBR in 1986/87 "ischiefly attributable to the remarkable buoyancy of non-oil taxrevenues in general, and the corporation tax paid by anincreasingly profitable business sector in particular."    On oil prices, Lawson said he was sticking to his earlierassumption that North Sea crude prices will average 15 dlrs perbarrel in calendar 1987.    He said "it is clear that the increased flow of non-oil taxrevenues, coupled with the prospective further growth of theeconomy in excess of the growth of public expenditure, puts thepublic finances in a very strong position."    Lawson said the Treasury would strive to keep the PSBR at1.0 pct of GDP in future.    "We have reached what I judge to be the (Medium TermFinancial Strategy's) appropriate destination - a PSBR of 1.0pct of GDP. My aim will be to keep it there over the yearsahead," Lawson said.    "Inevitably, this greatly diminishes the scope I have thisyear for reducing the burden of taxation, which of courseremains a major objective of government policy."    "But I am sure it is right to err on the side of prudenceand caution, and to build a still firmer base for the future."    Lawson said the time had come to strike the ExchangeControl Act from the Statute book.    On corporation tax, he said the rate will remain unchangedat 35 pct in 1987/88. But companies' capital gains will becharged at the "appropriate corporation tax rate."    He said that under the new proposed system, companiesshould be able to set Advanced Capital Tax (ACT) paymentsagainst tax on capital gains.    "Taken together, these changes should yield 60 mln stg in1988/89," Lawson said.    Lawson said he will propose that all companies and buildingsocieties be treated the same way on payment of corporationtax, "with all liable to pay corporation tax nine months afterthe end of the accounting period on which the tax is due."    "I also propose to legislate now to pave the way for a newmethod of collecting corporation tax, to be known as Pay andFile."    This would be part of a wider programme of streamlining taxcollection, and would not come into force until the early1990s.    Lawson said he planned two reliefs on Petroleum Revenue Tax(PRT). As from today, companies may elect to have up to 10 pctof the costs of developing certain new fields set against their(PRT) liabilities in existing fields, until the income of thosenew fields exceeds the costs incurred.    Second, there will be a new relief against PRT for spendingon research into U.K. Oil extraction that is not related to anyparticular field.    On business employment, Lawson said employers will receivetax relief for retraining workers.    Lawson said that in future, traders registered for ValueAdded Tax (VAT) would be able to choose to account for the taxon the basis of cash paid and received.    Small businesses may account for VAT annually instead ofquarterly. The VAT compulsory registration period was beingextended to 30 days, he added, and VAT registration thresholdsare to be raised to 21,300 stg.    New measures are planned to combat VAT avoidance, he added.    The capital gains tax retirement relief limit would now beset at 125,000 stg.    Lawson said he proposed to change the law so that companiesin multinational groups with dual residence will no longer beable to secure tax relief twice on the same interest payment.The change will take effect on April 1, 1987, but "genuinetrading companies" will not be affected.    He also planned to end the present treatment of tax creditrelief for foreign withholding tax paid on interest on bankloans, also from April 1.    "In future, banks will be able to offset this tax creditonly against tax on the profit on the relevant loan," he said.    The standard rate of taxation is being reduced by twopence, to 27 pct from 29 pct.    Lawson reiterated the government's aim of reducing basictaxation to 25 pence in the pound, but added "given my decisionto use the greater part of the fiscal scope I now have toreduce the PSBR, that goal cannot be achieved in this budget."    Small companies' corporation tax is also being reduced to27 pct, he said.    On the Lloyd's insurance market, Lawson said he planned tochange the tax treatment of Lloyd's syndicates, bringing itinto line with that of provisions for outstanding liabilitiesmade by ordinary insurance companies and of comparableprovisions made by financial traders.    The Inland Revenue would be told to consult urgently withLloyd's about the details of the legislation, he said.    "The new rules will first apply to premiums payable for theLloyd's account which closes on December 31 this year," Lawsonsaid. MORE
U.S. HOUSING DATA FAIL TO CLARIFY ECONOMIC PATH Surprisingly strong U.S. housingstatistics for February cannot be taken as an indication thatthe economy is generating any momentum and are not sufficientcause to start lifting forecasts for first quarter growth,economists said.    Building was boosted by two factors last month, unusuallymild weather and low mortgage rates. But economists said thatseasonal factors make it hard to assess what spur to theeconomy, if any, will come from housing in coming months. Andafter a steady retreat, mortgage rates seem to be near bottom.    U.S. housing starts rose 2.6 pct in February to aseasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.851 mln units from 1.804mln in January. It was the highest pace for starts since April1986.    The rate at which permits were issued for future buildingclimbed 4.4 pct to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.764mln units after dropping 11.52 pct to 1.690 mln in January.    "February's weather is usually more adverse for homebuilding. Because of seasonal factors it's difficult todetermine what this means for the economy down the road," saidAllan Leslie of Discount Corp.    The housing report is seasonally-weighted to compensate forweather-related setbacks. As a result, milder temperaturesinflate the statistics.    Economists said that low mortgage rates also were a spur tobuilding last month. But several believe that rates will nowconsolidate before edging up in late spring/early summer.    "Builders are looking at current mortgage rates and saying'Let's do it now'," said Mark Obrinsky of the U.S. League ofSavings Institutions in Washington, whose members supply muchof the financing for home building.    But Obrinsky doubts that there is much more downwardpotential for rates because he foresees higher inflation and some overall improvement in the U.S. economy.    He expects rates to gain 50 to 100 basis points in earlysummer from the 9.50 pct fixed rate effective in February. LastNovember, fixed rate mortgages were about 10.30 pct.    As expected, the strength in housing was concentrated inthe single-family sector. The multi-family area -- whichtypically represents rental units -- remained weak due to highvacancy rates and increased capital costs of such unitsfollowing tax law changes effective January 1.    Single-family starts rose at a 5.6 pct annual pace to 1.317mln units. Multi-family fell 4.1 pct to a 534,000 rate.    "Strength in the single-family sector indicates that lowmortgage rates are doing their job. But we're probably notlooking at a great deal of growth potential," said WardMcCarthy of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.    McCarthy noted that the housing report, together withlarger than expected gains in U.S. employment, industrialoutput and retail sales in February, may cause some observersto start waving "four pct GNP banners" for the first quarter.Gross national product grew 1.3 pct in the fourth quarter.    But McCarthy, who still expects first quarter real GNP tocome in at an annual rate of 2.5 pct or slightly above, is notconvinced that growth will pick up in future.    "The big story is the inventory re-building that's going onnow, not all of which is intentional," he said. For example,U.S. automakers, who are already saddled with high stocks,produced at an annual rate of 8.3 mln units in Februarycompared with domestic car sales of 7.3 mln.    Thus while inventories could contribute to GNP in the firstquarter, they may result in scaled-back production and weakergrowth in the second, he said.    "If most of the first quarter growth is inventory buildingand we cannot identify any improvement in export demand, thenthere is the potential for softness in the second quarter,"agreed Allan Leslie of Discount Corp. He is still evaluatingfirst quarter GNP prospects.    Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker said last week thatcurrent data do not show the worsening in trade has reversed.    "At the same time that we are pumping up inventories in thefirst quarter, we could foresee production slowing in thesecond," cautioned Joe Plocek of McCarthy, Crisanti and MaffeiInc, who expects first quarter growth of about three pct. Reuter
BELGIAN BANK SAID TO SEE SLOWER GROWTH An internal report produced by theBelgian National Bank foresees the country's gross nationalproduct growth falling in 1987 to 1.0 pct from 2.3 pct in 1986,the independent newspaper Le Soir said.    A National Bank spokesman said the newspaper article wasbasically correct, but that the report was produced six weeksago and figures were therefore to some extent out of date.    The government's planning bureau predicted growth of 0.9pct this year in a study published last month. REUTER
U.S. REAL GNP ROSE REVISED 1.1 PCT IN 4TH QTR INSTEAD OF 1.3  Matrix Science Corp said itsboard declared a two-for-one stock split and a six-cent pershare (pre stock split) dividend, payable May 7 to stockholdersof record April 16.    The company said the dividend is in addition to the ten ctsper share dividend paid January 2, 1987, making the post stocksplit annual dividend eight cts per share. Reuter
U.S. REAL GNP ROSE 1.1 PCT IN FOURTH QUARTER The U.S. Gross National Product,after removing the impact of inflation, increased at a revisedannual rate of 1.1 pct in the fourth quarter, the CommerceDepartment said.    That was down from an earlier preliminary 1.3 pct riseestimated a month ago and down from the 2.1 pct rise in thefourth quarter of 1985.    The final fourth quarter revision, however, left unchangedthe previous estimate of a 2.5 pct increase in GNP for all of1986 over 1985.    The revised estimate for fourth quarter GNP partlyreflected a downward revision in inventories to a totaldecrease of 28.5 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter, thedepartment said.    The revisions also indicated personal consumption spendingdecreased 2.2 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter after anincrease of 39.6 billion dlrs in the third quarter.    Exports of goods and services rose 15.3 billion dlrs aftera decline of 9.4 billion dlrs in the third quarter. Importsdecreased 700 mln dlrs in the final quarter, in contrast to anincrease of 20.9 billion dlrs in the third quarter. REUTER
REAGAN UPBEAT ABOUT LATEST GNP FIGURES President Reagan said the 1.1 pctU.S. economic growth rate during the final quarter of 1986"wasn't all that bad."    The Commerce Department said the rate of growth of theGross National Product in the October-December period was onlyslightly less than a preliminary estimate of 1.3 pct madeearlier.    At the same time, it said inflation, as measured by the GNPprice deflator, rose by 0.7 pct during the period.    Asked his reaction to the GNP report during a White Housephoto session, Reagan replied, "It wasn't all that bad." Reuter
GERMAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE LOWERS GROWTH FORECAST The DIW economic research institutesaid West German economic growth in 1987 is unlikely to reachthe 1.5 pct rate it had forecast earlier this year.    The institute, whose forecasts are more pessimistic thanthose of the other four leading German institutes, said theeconomy had passed its peak in the summer of 1986, and itsprospects had dimmed significantly since the autumn.    The DIW repeated earlier predictions that gross nationalproduct (GNP) in the first quarter of 1987 would contract inreal, seasonally adjusted terms against the weak final quarterof last year.     The DIW said that even if the economy recovers in theremaining three quarters, it was unlikely that demand andproduction would rise strongly enough to bring GNP growth up to1.5 pct.    Other institutes and economists have recently revised theirforecasts for German 1987 growth to around two pct.    In a report DIW disputed arguments by other economists thatthe economy was showing mixed development, with domestic demandhealthy but foreign demand weak.    DIW said the crucial split was between weak demand forcapital goods, and strong demand for buildings and consumergoods, not between foreign and domestic demand.    It noted that domestic demand for capital goods had beenhit in recent months by the weakness of exports, which hadcaused West German firms to scale back investment plans.    Service industries, unlike manufacturing industry, werecontinuing to do well because they relied on consumer demand,it said.    In a separate report the HWWA economic research institutein Hamburg said West Germany's real trade surplus would fallmarkedly this year.    However, the nominal trade surplus would show little changefrom 1986's record 112.2 billion marks because of a furtherimprovement in the terms of trade on average in 1987 comparedwith 1986, it said. REUTER
GERMAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE LOWERS GROWTH FORECAST The DIW economic research institutesaid West German economic growth in 1987 is unlikely to reachthe 1.5 pct rate it had forecast earlier this year.    The institute, whose forecasts are more pessimistic thanthose of the other four leading German institutes, said theeconomy had passed its peak in the summer of 1986, and itsprospects had dimmed significantly since the autumn.    The DIW repeated earlier predictions that gross nationalproduct (GNP) in the first quarter of 1987 would contract inreal, seasonally adjusted terms against the weak final quarterof last year.            Reuter
BRAZIL'S GDP GREW 8.2 PCT LAST YEAR Brazil's Gross Domestic Product,GDP, rose by 8.2 pct in real terms last year following an 8.3pct increase in 1985, the Geography and Statistics Institutesaid.    In money terms this equalled 3.6 trillion Cruzados, givingper capita GDP of 26,120 Cruzados, or 1.6 pct above the levelachieved in 1980 before the recession of 1981-1983, theInstitute said in a statement.    Agricultural output, hit by adverse weather, fell by 7.3pct last year led by coffee production which was 46 pct down.    Industry grew 12.1 pct, including capital goods by 21.6 pctand consumer goods by 20.3 pct, while services were up 8.3 pct. Reuter
AUSTRALIAN FOURTH QTR GDP RISES 1.1 PCT, AFTER 0.2 PCT THIRD QTR RISE - O Australia's seasonally adjusted realgross domestic product (GDP) rose 1.1 pct in the fourth quarterof 1986 after rising 0.2 pct in the third quarter, theStatistics Bureau said.    This compares with a 1.1 pct fall in the fourth quarter of1985.    Compared with the year-earlier quarter, GDP also rose 1.1pct, the Bureau figures show.    The annual rise compares with a 0.3 pct fall in the thirdquarter compared with the 1985 third quarter and a 4.3 pct risein the year-earlier period, the Bureau figures show.    Real non-farm gross product rose 0.9 pct in the fourthquarter after zero growth in the third quarter and a 1.3 pctfall a year earlier, making an annual rise of 0.8 pct.    Gross farm product rose 4.3 pct compared with rises of 2.6pct in the third quarter and 2.8 pct a year earlier, makingannual growth of 6.6 pct.    Elements in the fourth quarter GDP rise included falls of0.6 pct and 0.2 pct in private and government final consumptionexpenditure respectively, the Bureau figures show.    Gross fixed capital expenditure fell 0.1 pct in the quarterwhile exports of goods and services rose 13.0 pct and imports2.9 pct.    Seasonally-adjusted expenditure on GDP at average 1979/80prices rose to 36.67 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter from36.26 billion in both the third quarter and the year-earlierquarter.    The figures are subject to revision over a long period. REUTER
AUSTRALIAN EXPORTS HELPING TO BOOST GDP The strong contribution of exports tothe growth in Australia's gross domestic product (GDP) in thefourth quarter of 1986 was a significant and welcome feature ofthe data, private economists polled by Reuters said.    Real GDP rose 1.1 pct in the fourth quarter of 1986, afterrising 0.2 pct in the third quarter and falling 1.1 pct a yearearlier.    Equally significant was the decline in both private andgovernment spending, they said.    Exports of goods and services rose 13 pct in the fourthquarter, while imports rose only 2.9 pct, Statistics Bureaufigures show. Consumer spending declined 0.6 pct and governmentspending by 0.2.    Bob Edgar of the Australia and New Zealand Banking GroupLtd said the government's aim of reducing the current accountdeficit by boosting exports and lowering consumption to cutimports appeared to be working.    However, he cautioned that care must be taken to keepgrowth restrained because if it accelerated too fast importswould increase and worsen the balance of payments.    Andre Morony of Bankers Trust Australia Ltd added theresult was positive because growth was export-driven.    But he said the GDP rise came as no surprise given thegrowth in exports disclosed in other statistics.    The economists' comments were echoed by Treasurer PaulKeating in a statement issued in Canberra.    Keating said the figures showed encouraging trends for areduction in the current account deficit, notably the declinein domestic demand and the strong increase in exports.    A further 3.5 pct fall in the terms of trade in the quarterunderscored the need to continue restraint in wages, prices andpublic sector spending and borrowing to improve Australia'scompetitiveness, he said.    "It is clear that through the continued application of thatstrategy Australia will make the necessary adjustments in itsexternal accounts and return to a more sustainable growthpattern," he added. REUTER
NO FRENCH REFLATION, SOURCES CLOSE TO BALLADUR SAY There is no question of stimulatingconsumption or relying on a systematic budget deficit or otherreflationary policies to boost the French economy, sourcesclose to finance minister Edouard Balladur said.    Their comments followed remarks by prime minister JacquesChirac's spokesman Denis Baudouin, who said on Monday ministerswere agreed on the desirability of "relaunching" the economy.    This sparked speculation the government was preparing for areflationary U-turn, but the finance ministry immediately ruledout any such move.    The sources today said the government's policy remained oneof "recovery," or sound finances and greater efficiency.    They said that while 8.6 billion of the 30 billion francrevenues expected for 1987 from a sweeping privatisationprogram will go to providing public companies with freshcapital, 21.4 billion francs, or two-thirds, will go towardpaying off national debt.    Any further privatisation revenue this year above the 30billion would be distributed between repayment of nationalinternal debt and public companies in similar proportions, theyadded.    The sources said it was absurd to talk of reflation whenthe country's internal debt, expected to grow by 10 pct thisyear from 1,300 billion francs in 1986 was growing twice asfast as gross domestic product.    Nominal GDP is expected to grow by roughly five pct thisyear from 5,000 billion francs last year, broadly in line withearlier forecasts. Real GDP will grow by up to 2.5 pct.    The sources said that with France's economic targets for1987 roughly in line with its main trading partners, thegovernment had no intention of pushing the economy to grow atan artificial pace out of step with neighbouring economies. REUTER
FRENCH INSTITUTE PESSIMISTIC ON 1987 GROWTH French gross domestic product will growby only 1.5 pct in real terms this year, compared with thegovernment's forecast of two to 2.5 pct growth, the privateInstitut des Previsions Economiques et Financieres pour leDeveloppement des Entreprises (IPECODE) said.    However, it expects growth to recover next year to the 1986level of two pct.    IPECODE said demand and production would develop inparallel this year, in contrast to last year when productionwas unable to keep pace with the strong rise in domesticdemand, unleashing higher import demand.    Claims on the International Monetary Fund (IMF) rose by 298mln francs to 19.61 billion francs, due to net withdrawals infrancs by member nations, and an increase in reserves ofSpecial Drawing Rights (SDRs) due mainly to the repayment ofFrench debts.    Its deficit with the European Monetary Cooperation Fund(FECOM) remained unchanged in February at 33.90 billion francs.    French household consumption, which rose by 3.1 pct lastyear, is likely to grow by just 1.1 pct this year and 1.5 pctin 1988, it added.    Industrial investment is expected to rise by 4.3 pct thisyear and 5.5 pct in 1988, down from 6.5 pct in 1986.    Inflation, which was running at 2.1 pct at the end of 1986,is likely to rise to 2.9 pct at the end of this year, IPECODEsaid, while the government has forecast 2.5 pct.    However, the institute said inflation would fall back to2.5 pct at the end of 1988, "provided that real wage costsremain within the framework of productivity rises." REUTER
U.K. AVERAGE GDP RISES 2.6 PCT IN 1986 Britain's gross domestic product (GDP)on the average basis of output, expenditure and income rose by2.6 pct in 1986 after a 3.4 pct increase a year earlier,Central Statistical Office (CSO) preliminary figures show.    In the fourth quarter, GDP rose 0.7 pct over the previousquarter and was up 3.3 pct on the same 1985 quarter.    The average estimate index, seasonally-adjusted and based1980, was set at 114.3 in the fourth quarter of 1986 against113.5 in the previous quarter and 110.7 in the final quarter of1985.    The CSO said the average GDP estimate index for 1986 as awhole was 113.1, up 2.6 pct from 110.2 for 1985.    On the output measure, GDP rose an upward revisedseasonally adjusted 0.3 pct in the fourth quarter of 1986 to114.9 on the output index from 114.5 in the previous quarter,giving a 3.2 pct rise over the fourth 1985 quarter, the CSOfigures show.    On income-based GDP, the index in the fourth quarter roseby 0.7 pct from the third quarter and was up 3.8 pct on theyear-ago quarter.    The indices stood at 115.3, 114.4 and 111.0 respectively.    Expenditure-based GDP rose 1.2 pct in the fourth quarter of1986 from the third quarter and was up 2.9 pct from the same1985 quarter.    The CSO set the expenditure index at 112.9 from 111.6 inthe third quarter of 1986 and 109.8 in the final 1985 quarter.    The year-on-year rise for expenditure GDP was 2.3 pct withthe expenditure index for the whole of 1986 set at 111.9against 109.4 a year earlier.    For income GDP, the year-on-year rise was 2.6 pct againstagainst three pct a year earlier. The ouptut GDP measure rose2.8 pct year-on-year, down from 3.8 pct in 1985.    The government usually considers the output measure themost reliable way of measuring short-term GDP changes.    It is based on output data for production industry andpartial information for the rest of the economy.    The government had forecast that average measure GDP wouldrise 2.5 pct in calendar 1986 after 3.3 pct in 1985. The budgetunveiled on Tuesday foresaw GDP growth in 1987 of three pct.    The GDP deflator, based on expenditure at market prices,rose 1.2 pct in the fourth quarter from the third, to give a2.4 pct rise over fourth quarter 1985. Year-on-year, thedeflator rose 3.7 pct. REUTER
MALAYSIAN 1987 ECONOMIC GROWTH SEEN ABOVE FORECAST The Development Bank of Singapore Ltd(DBS) said Malaysia's real gross domestic product growth (gdp)in 1987 could be 1.5 to two pct, above a budget target of onepct.    It said in a report that because of an economic recoveryand higher foreign exchange reserves, the Malaysian ringgit isunlikely to face devaluation in the near future.    The report was presented at a two-day investment conferenceorganised by the DBS, one of Singapore's four major banks.    The report said rising commodity prices and the continuedexpansion of the manufacturing sector coupled with rigorousfiscal restraints and a more stable currency are grounds forcautious optimism about the Malaysian economy.    It forecast the ringgit will remain stable at between 2.60and 2.70 Malaysian dlrs to the U.S. Dollar for the rest of theyear.    But the report said the growth rate of Malaysia's externaldebt remains worrying and should be controlled. It saidMalaysia's external debt totals 48 to 49 billion Malaysian dlrsand its debt service ratio exceeds 20 pct. REUTER
GATT MEETING HEARS PLEA FOR AFRICAN DEBT RELIEF Debt among African countrieswill continue to grow and their economies remain stifled unlessdeveloped countries lower their interest rates, Nigerian TradeMinister Samaila Mamman said.    He told an informal General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade(GATT) meeting the widening gap between developed anddeveloping countries and an inequitable international economicsystem were major impediments to growth in developingcountries.    Delegates from 23 countries are attending the GATT talks inthe New Zealand resort of Taupo.    "I wish to emphasise that the growth in the volume of theexternal indebtedness of African countries reflects the fulleffect of the deflationary monetary and trade policies of thedeveloped market economy countries," Mamman said.    "The developed market economy countries have slowed downoutput growth thereby drying up markets for the commodityexports of African countries."    Mamman said the World Bank estimated 35.3 billion dlrs ayear would be needed over the next five years for the Africancontinent to be able to achieve a gross domestic product growth(GDP) rate of three to four pct by 1990.    Yet at the same time Africa's debt service was estimated at24.5 billion dlrs a year between 1986 and 1990.    "With the best of intentions Africa cannot attain a three tofour pct GDP growth rate if the current high level of debtpersists," Mamman said. Developed countries must seekalternatives to policies that resulted in the transfer ofresources and more indebtedness, he said.    "The international community cannot fail to respondpositively to the collapse of the international market forcommodities ... And act quickly to stabilize demand and pricesof our commodity exports," he added. REUTER
JAPAN ECONOMY SEEN GROWING 3.6 PCT IN 1987/88 Japan is expected to post a 3.6 pct risein real gross national product in 1987/88, higher than theofficial 3.5 pct target, a private economic institute said.    The Research Institute on National Economy said in a reportthe economy will start picking up in the April-June quarter,partly because of an improvement in earnings performance andcapital spending in manufacturing industries.    The institute assumed an average exchange rate in the yearstarting April 1 of 150 yen to the dollar. It predicted theBank of Japan will not change the official discount rate in theyear.    The institute forecast that Japan's exports will graduallyrise in the year in volume terms as the dollar's fall in thepast 18 months is likely to help prop up the U.S. Economy.    Japan's trade surplus is expected to narrow slightly to90.2 billion dlrs in 1987/88 ending March 31 from an estimated98 billion in the current fiscal year, it said. REUTER
BANGLADESH FORECASTS GDP GROWTH OF 4.4 PCT Gross domestic product is expected togrow by 4.4 pct in the year ending June 30, Finance MinisterMohammad Syeduzzaman told reporters.    Inflation fell to an estimated 12 pct this fiscal year from17 pct in 1981/82, he said last night.    The World Bank and other independent sources have saidinflation would be around 15 pct in 1986/87.    Syeduzzaman said remittances from expatriates would rise to600 mln dlrs this year from 425 mln in 1981/82.    Foreign exchange reserves at end-June are projected at 680mln dlrs compared with 105 mln in 1981/82, he said.    Syeduzzaman said the export target has been set at 900 mlndlrs this year against 626 mln in 1981/82. Commitments forforeign loans and grants total more than five billion dlrs in1986/87, against 3.54 billion five years previously, he said.    The government's liberal industrial policy has attractedinvestment commitments totalling 250 mln dlrs, he said    Foodgrain output is estimated at 16.4 mln tonnes this year,up from 16.12 mln in 1985/86 and 14.4 mln in 1981/82.    Government officials have said Bangladesh must importnearly two mln tonnes of grain annually up to 1990, when thegovernment expects to attain self-sufficiency in food. REUTER
BALLADUR SEES ONLY TWO PCT FRENCH GROWTH IN 1987 French 1987 growth will probably be abouttwo pct, the same as last year, due to an internationalenvironment that is less favourable than expected, FinanceMinister Edouard Balladur was quoted as saying.    Treasury director Daniel Lebegue said last month that grossdomestic product is expected to grow by between two and 2.5 pctthis year, against an original target of 2.8 pct.    Although in line with the latest Organisation for EconomicCooperation and Development (OECD) estimate of 2.1 pct growth,the forecast will be balanced by growth in investments andexports, Balladur said in an interview with the daily LesEchos.    Last month Balladur said French GDP had grown by just twopct last year, compared with an initial 1986 target of 2.5 pctand 1.1 pct growth in 1985.    He told Les Echos he aims to reduce the 1988 budget deficitto 115 billion francs from this year's figure of 129 billionand compared with a 141 billion deficit in 1985.    He has already announced his intention of cutting thedeficit to 100 billion francs in 1989. REUTER
FRENCH GDP SHOULD RISE 2.3 PCT IN 1988 - MINISTRY French gross domestic product should growby 2.3 pct in 1988 after two pct growth this year and 2.1 pctin 1986, the Finance Ministry said.    The latest forecast, prepared by the National Accounts andBudget Commission, assumed an exchange rate of 6.20 francs tothe dollar this year and next and an average oil import pricerising to 18.9 dlrs a barrel next year from 17.4 dlrs this yearand 14.7 in 1986.    The Commission, headed by Finance minister EdouardBalladur, forecast a fall in consumer price inflation to twopct year-on-year at end-1988 from 2.4 pct at end 1987 and 2.1pct last year.    In annual average terms inflation would fall to two pct in1988 from 2.5 pct this year and 2.7 pct last year, it said.    Trade should show a one billion franc annual surplus thisyear and next after last year's 0.5 billion surplus, it added.    Employment should rise by 0.1 pct a year over the next twoyears while the state budget deficit should be cut to 2.2 pctof GDP in 1988 from 2.6 pct this year and 2.9 pct in 1986.    Other forecasts prepared by the Commission indicated a 1.8pct 1988 rise in household purchasing power, up from 1.1 pctthis year but less than last year's 2.9 pct, and a 1.6 pct risein household consumption, compared with this year's 1.5 pct andlast year's 2.9 pct.    Business investment is forecast to rise four pct a yearthis year and next after 3.7 pct last year, with private sectorproductive investment rising 4.9 pct in 1988 after a six pctrise this year and 5.5 pct in 1986.    The Ministry said updated forecasts would be preparedbefore the autumn to serve as the basis for the 1988 budget,which the government is now preparing for presentation inSeptember. REUTER
SWEDISH GNP ROSE LESS THAN EXPECTED, FIGURES SHOW Sweden's Gross National Product rose1.3 pct last year against 2.3 pct in 1985, mainly due to alower than forecast growth in exports and a sharp fall in totalinvestments, the Central Bureau of Statistics reported.    Private consumption rose 4.1 pct during 1986 against 2.7pct in 1985 whereas the Finance Ministry had expected anincrease of only 3.6 pct. Total investments fell 0.7 pctagainst a rise of 6.3 pct in 1985. The Finance Ministry hadforecast a rise of 0.3 pct in 1986.    Exports rose 2.1 pct last year against 2.3 pct in 1985, butthe Finance Ministry had predicted a growth of 2.8 pct. REUTER
FRENCH ECONOMIC COUNCIL PESSIMISTIC ON 1987 GROWTH France's Economic and Social Council(CES), an advisory body comprising industrialists, tradeunionists and representatives of other sectors of the Frencheconomy, said the country's annual growth may not reach two pctin 1987.    French gross domestic product risks not reaching the twopct growth registered last year, the Council said in a reporton first quarter 1987 economic activity without giving anyspecific forecasts. Finance Minister Edouard Balladur wasquoted today as saying that French 1987 growth will probably beabout two pct.    Balladur said in an interview with the financial daily LesEchos that the country's economic growth will probably be aboutthe same as last year due to a less favourable internationalenvironment.    CES President Philippe Neeser said one of the major fearsfor the French economy this year was a resurge in inflation.    Disinflation was an absolute priority, Neeser toldjournalists, adding that a failure to do this would beextremely serious as if would be very difficult to reverse formany years. Reuter
U.S. ECONOMY SHOWS PROMISING SIGNS OF GROWTH The U.S. economy is showing somepromising signs of accelerated expansion despite thesluggishness of the fourth quarter last year, privateeconomists say.    Some of the slowness experienced in the October-Decemberperiod had been expected to spill over into the first quarterthis year, as the tax law changes that went into effect inJanuary slowed business and consumer spending.    But some of the latest economic data show signs ofsurprising strength in the U.S. economy, although someeconomists remain cautious about the outlook.    The Commerce Department reported today that new orders fordurable goods in February jumped by 5.7 billion dlrs, a six pctrise, to 101.2 billion dlrs. Even excluding volatile defensegoods, durable goods orders rose a healthy 3.8 pct, the agencysaid.    The February numbers surpassed the expectations of manyfinancial analysts, whose predictions ranged from flat toincreases of up to five pct.    The January/February employment statistics suggest theGross National Product will show a healthy rate of growth forthe first three months of this year, said Lyle Gramley, aneconomist with the Mortgage Bankers Association.    The U.S. jobless rate in February and January was 6.7 pct,the lowest rate since March 1980. The number of new non-farmjobs rose by 337,000 in February after a 319,000 gain inJanuary and a 225,000 December increase, the government said.    The employment data suggests a GNP annual growth rate ofabout three to 3.25 pct in the first quarter, said Gramley.    Much of that will be attributed to businesses rebuildingtheir inventories and is not likely to be sustained in thesecond quarter, Gramley said. He expects a slowdown in thesecond quarter with smaller increases in personal consumptionand government spending. He also sees residential constructiondeclining mostly for multi-family housing units.    Fidelity Bank senior economist Mickey Levy said some of thefourth quarter slowness will continue.    Levy predicts GNP will grow at a scant 1.5 pct rate in thefirst quarter of 1987, accelerate during the second quarter andshow a brisk 4.5 pct annual rate in the third quarter.    The key to both forecasts is a marked improvement in theU.S. trade balance which is expected because of the decline inthe dollar's value over the last year and half.    "The improvement will be gradual and long lasting," Levypredicted. Most of it will be through import reduction, but atleast one-third will be due to a rise in product exports as theprices of U.S. goods become more attractive overseas.    The Reagan administration has predicted the trade deficit,which soared to record levels last year, will improve this yearand the U.S. economy will grow by a respectable 3.2 pct for theyear compared with a 2.5 pct rate last year.    As part of the effort to reduce the trade deficit, the U.S.has been pressing West Germany and Japan to stimulate theirdomestic demand for goods from the U.S. and others.    U.S. officials believe that would help take some of thepressure off the United States whose five years of economicgrowth has been the mainstay of developing countries.    The U.S. economy provided them with a giant market fortheir goods giving them a way to earn income badly needed toservice their foreign debt.    The government last week said the U.S. economy grew at amodest 1.1 pct annual rate during the fourth quarter.    There were indications of improvement in the huge imbalancebetween the volume of goods imported to the United States andthose shipped abroad. The report showed a rising volume ofexports corresponding to a decline in imports despite the factthat in current dollar terms, the U.S. trade deficit worsenedduring the closing three months of 1986.    While fourth quarter economic growth was weak, corporateprofits jumped a healthy 6.1 pct during the period, thegovernment said. It also reported that inflation, as measuredby the GNP price deflator, remained in check, growing amoderate 0.7 pct in the period, the lowest rise in 19 years.    The government also reported that consumer spending, a keyelement of the five year economic recovery, jumped 1.7 pct inFebruary, after falling two pct in January.    The Federal Reserve Board also reported that themanufacturing sector, which had been one of the weaker elementsof the U.S. economy, was showing signs of recovery.    In its latest report on current economic conditions, theFed said that economic activity in the various regions of thecountry ranged from uneven or steady to improving.Manufacturing activity showed signs of improvement in mostregions except Dallas where orders remained sluggish.    Chase Econometrics Chairman Lawrence Chimerine said thepick up in the U.S. manufacturing sector is largely due to thedrop in the dollar's value. He said he does not foresee a majorpick up in economic activity, but does not believe the economywill slip into recession either.    He said higher prices on imported products and wage cutsthat have helped the manufacturing sector will squeezeconsumers purchasing power.    "That pattern is starting and will continue for a number ofyears," Chimerine said. He sees economic growth hovering arounda modest two pct level for the next few years. Reuter
SINGAPORE GDP TO GROW SIX PCT IN FIRST QUARTER Singapore's gross domestic productwill grow six pct in the first quarter and five pct in thesecond quarter this year, with further growth expected in thesecond half, Trade and Industry Minister Lee Hsien Loong toldparliament.    The figures compared with 3.4 pct contraction and 1.2 pctgrowth respectively for the first and second quarters of 1986.    The estimates were based on a tentative leading indicatorincorporating new business orders, company inventories andshare prices used by his ministry, Lee said, without givingfurther details of the new indicator.    Singapore's economy grew 1.9 pct last year, after shrinking1.8 pct in 1985. The government has forecast growth rate ofthree to four pct for 1987. REUTER
ITALIAN 1986 GDP UP 2.7 PCT, UNEMPLOYMENT RISES Extracts from a report by Italy's BudgetMinistry on the country's economic development in 1986 showedgross domestic product (GDP) 2.7 pct higher in real terms thanin 1985 but a rise in unemployment.    GDP calculated at 1980 prices rose to 434,682 billion lirelast year from 423,064 billion in 1985. On a current pricesbasis, GDP was up 11 pct, totalling 894,362 billion lire in1986 against 805,754 billion in 1985.     But growth was insufficient to prevent a rise inunemployment to 11.1 pct last year from 10.3 pct in 1985, theministry said.    The report said falling oil prices and the depreciation ofthe dollar during 1986 had favoured oil-importing countriessuch as Italy.    These factors helped Italy cut inflation to an average 6.3pct in 1986, down from 9.3 pct in 1985.    They also helped a major improvement in the trade balance.    On the basis of data recently recalculated by the nationalstatistics institute Istat, Italy had a trade deficit in 1986of 3,722 billion lire, the report said. This slightly revises aprevious deficit figure of 3,717 billion issued by Istat andcompares with a negative balance of 23,085 billion for 1985. Reuter
SOUTH KOREA PLANS 11-12 PCT BUDGET RISE IN 1988 South Korea plans to increase the size ofits budget in 1988 by 11 to 12 pct from this year's 15,596billion won, Economic Planning Board officials said.    The proposed boost is based on a government forecast thatgross national product (gnp) will grow by more than 7.5 pct andthe gnp deflator by 3.5 pct in 1988, against targets of 8.0 pctand 3.5 pct respectively this year, they said.    Details of the 1988 budget, in which spending will matchrevenue, have yet to be worked out, the officials said.    The balanced budget in 1986 totalled 13,800.5 billion won. REUTER
ITALIAN 1987 GDP GROWTH FORECAST AT THREE PCT Italy's gross domestic product (GDP) willgrow three pct in real terms this year and 2.7 pct in 1988,said economic information company Data Resources Europe Inc(DRI).    Michel Girardin, DRI Europe's senior economist, said at aconference that Italian GDP growth this year "will be mainlydriven by consumption and especially investment."    Girardin said the driving force behind GDP growth next yearwill shift from domestic demand to exports as a result ofexpected depreciation of the lira against the major currencies.    Italy's budget ministry said yesterday that GDP rose 2.7pct in real terms in 1986.    DRI forecast that inflation, which was an average 6.3 pctin 1986, will be under five pct this year and that interestrates should drop two pct.    Girardin said the lira is expected to appreciate 14 pctagainst the dollar this year following last year's 22 pctappreciation. An expected German mark appreciation against thedollar means that the lira should lose about six pct of itsvalue relative to the German currency, he said.    DRI estimates that foreign demand for Italian productsshould grow by a 3.2 pct this year following last year's 6.2pct increase. REUTER
SOUTH AFRICA GDP UP 4.7 PCT IN 1986 LAST QUARTER The South African Reserve Bank,confirming previous estimates, said real gross domestic productin the 1986 fourth quarter grew at a seasonally adjusted annualrate of 4.7 pct versus 4.6 pct in the third quarter and 1.3 pctin the 1985 final quarter.    The bank, in its latest quarterly review, said the nominalgrowth rate for the year did not quite reach one pct after a1.5 pct contraction in 1985.    But it said when the strengthening of the terms of trade istaken into account, the real GNP in 1986 advanced by 1.5 pctcompared with a decrease of 0.5 pct in 1985.    GDP is the total value of goods and services produced by aneconomy but omits income from abroad.  GNP includes suchpayments or outflows.    The bank also said there were indications the country'seconomic recovery was becoming more broadly based.    With the exception of commerce all major sectors of theeconomy contributed to the fourth quarter rise in domesticproduction.    The bank said major increases in foreign reserves wererecorded in January, February and the first half of March 1987.Reserves rose by 1.70 billion rand during January and February.    Total reserves in 1986 declined by 189 mln rand to 5.70billion rand and were equivalent to about 14.5 pct of the totalannual value of import payments.    The current account surplus amounted to 7.20 billion randin 1986 versus 5.90 mln the previous year.    The bank said continuing strength of the current accounthas allowed foreign reserves to be "rebuilt to more comfortablelevels."    "This has strengthened the authorities' hands in lendingsupport to the exchange rate of the rand if such action were tobe called for," the bank said. REUTER
CANADA GDP UP 0.1 PCT IN JANUARY Canada's gross domestic product rose 0.1pct, seasonally adjusted, in January after gaining 1.0 pct inDecember but falling 0.1 pct and 0.3 pct in November andOctober, Statistics Canada said.    January's rise, in 1981 prices, was fueled largely by a 0.5pct gain in the goods producing sector. Output inservices-producing industries declined 0.1 pct from December'slevel.    January's level was 1.29 pct higher than the same month ayear ago.    The federal agency said it was the second straight gain forgoods producing industries. Most of the growth occurred inmanufacturing and construction.    Within manufacturing, strong gains were posted in the wood,machinery, non-metallic mineral and food product groups.Significant declines were recorded in the output of automobilesand parts, however.    In the services sector, increases in finance, insurance andcommunication were more than offset by declines intransportation, storage and the retail trade. Reuter
FED'S POLICY EASE MAY END WITH 2ND QTR RATE CUT The Federal Reserve's move to easiermonetary policy, begun with four quick half-point discount ratecuts in 1986, will likely end with a final rate drop in thesecond quarter, analysts said.    A poll of 10 economists shows most expect interest rates toedge lower, with the Fed likely to drop its basic lending ratefrom 5-1/2 pct late next quarter to help the economy.    "The Fed is not likely to ease policy much further withouta full-blown recession," said Raymond Stone, chief financialeconomist at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.    Stone said economic data available by late June may be justweak enough to prompt one more discount rate cut. But he saidit may only be a quarter-point drop instead of the usual halfpoint, to avoid hurting the dollar further.    All of the economists agreed that the Federal Open MarketCommittee tomorrow will leave Fed policy unchanged.    The average forecast of those surveyed projects roughlyquarter-point drops by the end of June in both the Treasurybond yield, to 7-1/2 pct, and the Federal funds rate at whichbanks lend to one another, to 5-7/8 pct. Most expect the primelending rate at major banks to remain at 7-1/2 pct.    Other broad predictions of the survey, relating mainly tothe April-June quarter, follow:    - The dollar is likely to decline five to 10 pct furtheragainst other major currencies because of a large U.S. budgetdeficit and a wide, but narrowing, trade gap. Contacted afterthe dollar's steep drop in the last two business days, theeconomists reaffirmed this view but stressed the risk is thatthe dollar will fall more, rather than less, than they expect.    - Oil prices in the second quarter are likely to continuetrading roughly between 16 and 19 dlrs a barrel and could welltest the lower end of that range.    - Stocks will continue to outperform bonds next quarter andprobably for all of 1987. Stocks should gain on strongforeign demand and a modest second-half economic rise. Theoutlook for bonds also is less favorable later in the yearsince both inflation and interest rates may be edging up.    - Inflation as measured by the GNP implicit price deflatorwill rise to around 3.3 pct this year from 2.7 pct in 1986. Thesharp fall in the dollar to date will add to inflation, as willa mild economic pickup in the second half of this year.    - U.S. real gross national product, which grew at a two pctannual rate in the 1986 second half, should expand atrespective rates of about 2.3 pct and 2.5 pct in the 1987 firstand second halves. First-quarter growth is put at a 2.4 pctannualrate, slowing to 2.1 pct next quarter.    Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities Co International seesboth the strongest economy and the highest interest rates amongthose surveyed. He expects real GNP, which grew at a 1.1 pctrate in fourth-quarter 1986, to expand at a 3.3 pct rate thisquarter and 3.5 pct next quarter.    "The economy will bounce back more strongly than manyexpect," Brusca said. He said an involuntary buildup ininventories, largely in autos, will add to first-quartereconomic growth, with consumer spending helping later.    "We're running out of special factors to keep the economyafloat," said Philip Braverman of Irving Securities Corp. Hisinterest rate and economic forecasts were among the lowest.    Braverman said tax law changes and inventory accumulationhelped lift fourth and first quarter GNP growth, respectively.He expects 2.5 pct first quarter growth but said that secondquarter growth could be zero or negative.    Braverman said economic activity next quarter will sufferfrom a paring of inventories, lower capital investment, slow government spending and less construction. Only a marginallynarrower trade deficit will add to growth.    He sees a 7.10 pct end-of-June yield on Treasury bonds,with Federal funds and prime rates at 5.50 and seven pct,respectively. Nikko's Brusca projects rates of 8.25 pct forbonds, 6.15 pct for funds and 7.75 pct for the prime rate.    Two of the 10 economists revised rate forecasts up mildlyafter the dollar's fall to 40-year lows versus the yen in pastdays and news of pending U.S. trade sanctions against Japan.    David Resler of Nomura Securities Co International Incraised his end-June bond yield forecast to 7.50 pct from 7.20pct and a Fed funds rate estimate to six pct from 5.80 pct.    Raul Nicho, president of Money Market Services Inc, liftedhis forecast of bond and Fed funds rates an eighth of a pointto eight pct for bonds and 6-1/4 pct for funds. Both Nicho andResler left their end-June prime rate forecast at 7-1/2 pct.    The higher rate forecasts reflected a belief that Japaneseinvestors will be less eager to buy U.S. bonds because of fearabout further dollar erosion and perhaps in response to U.S.trade sanctions. Yields may have to rise to lure other buyers.......END-JUNE U.S. INTEREST RATE FORECASTS........................T-bonds..Fed funds..Prime..Nikko Securities.....8.25......6.15......7.75..Money Mkt Services...8.00......6.25......7.50..Discount Corp........7.75......6.25......7.50..Merrill Lynch........7.30......5.75......7.50..Bankers Trust........7.25......5.50......7.50..Wells Fargo Bank.....7.30......5.60......7.00..Irving Securities....7.10......5.50......7.00..Dean Witter..........7.00......5.50......7.00...FORECAST AVERAGE....7.50......5.875.....7.50...CURRENT LEVELS......7.80......6.125.....7.50.. Reuter
FINNISH ECONOMIC GROWTH PUT AT THREE PCT IN 1987 Finland's gross national product isexpected to rise by three pct in 1987 against two pct in 1986and inflation will be unchanged at about 3.5 pct, the privatebusiness survey office ETLA predicted.    Unemployment in 1987 is put at 5.5 pct, in line with lastyear, the office predicted in its regular review.    The balance of payments would show a five billion markkadeficit in 1987, against a 4.2 billion deficit in 1986. REUTER
U.S. COMMERCE SECRETARY SEES HIGHER GNP GROWTH Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrigesaid a 0.7 pct rise in February's index of leading indicatorspointed to stronger economic growth in the first half of 1987.    In a statement commenting on the rise last month after a0.5 pct January decline, Baldrige noted the leading index wasrising at an 8.0 pct annual rate in the six months to the endof February.    "Based on past relationships, that gain is consistent withstepped up growth in real GNP during the first half of 1987,"Baldrige said. Reuter
SEIPP SAYS GERMAN INTEREST RATES SHOULD FALL The Bundesbank should take furthersteps to reduce German interest rates to protect the mark fromfurther appreciation and to persuade investors to bringlong-term yields lower, Commerzbank AG <CBKG.F> managementboard chairman Walter Seipp said.    But he told the bank's annual news conference this did notmean a cut in leading interest rates, rather a reduction inmoney market rates through bringing the allocation rates downfor Bundesbank securities repurchase agreements.    "Leading interest rates are not the decisive rates," he said."The money market rates are the important ones."    Seipp said the Bundesbank should move away from allocatingmoney market liquidity at a fixed 3.8 pct as it has in recenttender allocations.    An easier monetary policy would not mean a loss ofcredibility for the Bundesbank in its containment of monetarygrowth. A fall in short rates would make the public aware ofthe high yields in bonds and lead to a longer-term capitalformation, braking the expansion of money supply.    "Thus, you can have lower rates and also a normalisation ofmonetary growth both at the same time," he added.    Seipp said there were no grounds to paint too black apicture of the German economy, since company profitability hadimproved over recent years and domestic oriented firms wereprofiting from cheaper imports because of the rise in the mark.    Growth this year should be at least one pct, he said,describing the downturn in production in the first months as afalse start, unrepresentative of the rest of the year.    After an economic contraction in the first quarter, theeconomy should show an uptrend in the last three. "We don'tbelieve that the economy has tipped over, but see it more as a'growth dip,'" Seipp said.    But Seipp also called for support for growth from fiscalpolicy, saying the top rate of income and corporate tax shouldbe brought down to 49 pct. The current peak rate is 56 pct.    The additional tax cuts brought forward to next Januarywere no substitute for support for growth.    Seipp added the federal government should make "furthercourageous steps to decrease the state's proportion of theGerman economy and to increase its flexibility." Reuter
GERMAN 2.2 PCT GROWTH AVERAGE SEEN TO 1991 The economy will grow by an averagerate of 2.2 pct a year in real terms between now and the end of1991, Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale (WestLB) said in anannual report.    A year ago WestLB had forecast average growth of just underthree pct for 1986-1990.    The 1987 report said gross national product would onlyexpand a real 1.7 pct this year -- below previous expectations-- because of weaker exports. Growth rates will pick up later,however, producing a 2.2 pct increase on average for thefive-year period. MORE
TURKEY ESTIMATES 1986 GROWTH AT EIGHT PCT Turkey's Gross National Product grew anestimated 8.0 pct in 1986 at fixed 1968 prices, compared with5.1 pct in 1985, the State Statistics Institute said.    Reporting full-year data, it also said Gross DomesticProduct rose 8.3 pct compared with 5.1 pct in 1985. An earlierestimate from nine-month data put full-year GNP and GDP growthboth at 7.9 pct.    The government's GNP growth target for 1987 is five pct,the same level it had set for 1986.    The institute estimated per capita GNP for 1986 at 1,116.6dlrs, up from 1,045.3 dlrs in 1985.    Officials blame the high 1986 GNP growth on a surge indomestic demand stemming partly from poorly controlledmunicipal expenditures in the early part of the year.    Industry grew at 11.1 pct in real terms in 1986 comparedwith 6.6 pct in 1985 while agriculture expanded 7.4 pctcompared with 2.8 pct. REUTER
KENYAN MINISTER FORECASTS ECONOMIC EXPANSION Kenya's economy will continue to expandthis year and the government will do more to encourageinvestment by foreign firms and the local private sector,Planning Minister Robert Ouko said.    He told a news conference that the government would sooncreate a special bureau to expedite processing of investmentapplications by local and foreign investors.    Praising the role of multinational companies and localentrepreneurs in Kenya's economy, the minister promised tomaintain a close working contact with the private sector.    The economy grew by 5.3 pct last year, up from 4.1 pct in1985, Ouko said.    This was owing to high prices for the country's coffeeexports, low oil prices, low inflation and rising real incomes,he added.    "Despite rising petroleum prices and falling coffee prices,Kenya's economy is still expected to improve in 1987," theplanning minister said.    "High aggregate demand arising from low inflation, tradeliberalisation and disciplined financial management areexpected to increase output in the manufacturing sector," hesaid.    Agriculture would expand significantly if favourableweather continued and farmers responded to producer price risesannounced in February, the minister added.    Kenyan farmers are anxiously awaiting the arrival of thelong rainy season, which is due to start about now.    Ouko said the production of Kenya's main cash cropsincreased during the second half of last year.    Coffee deliveries to the state-run Coffee Board of Kenyarose 17 pct and tea deliveries rose four pct during the period,he said.    Ouko paid tribute to the private sector for itscontribution to the economy and promised to improve governmentcooperation with businessmen by maintaining regular contactwith them.    "I wish to pay tribute to the private sector for itscontribution to the economy in 1986 and challenge it tomaintain the same spirit this year ... The manufacturing sectorgrew by an estimated 5.8 pct in 1986, in line with the sameperiod the previous year," he said.    Ouko said the "one stop" bureau was intended to stimulateinvestment and cut the time and bureacracy currently involvedin processing applications.    The planning minister presented a review of the Kenyaneconomy during the second half of 1986 which showed inflationfalling to 4.3 pct from 10.2 a year earlier.    This was owing to higher agricultural production and theKenyan shilling's relative strength against other majorcurrencies, the report said.    The average exchange rate was 16.23 shillings per U.S. Dlrlast year, a fall of only 1.2 pct from 16.432 in 1985. The halfyearly report said exports increased about 30 pct inJuly-December 1986, while imports rose by only six pct duringthe period.    This gave Kenya an overall balance of payments surplus of780 mln Kenya shillings (48 mln dlrs) during the period,compared with a 1.4 billion shilling (87 mln dlr) deficit inthe second half of 1985, it said. REUTER
KENYAN MINISTER FORECASTS ECONOMIC EXPANSION Kenya's economy will continue to expandthis year and the government will do more to encourageinvestment by foreign firms and the local private sector,Planning Minister Robert Ouko said.    He told a news conference that the government would sooncreate a special bureau to expedite processing of investmentapplications by local and foreign investors.    Praising the role of multinational companies and localentrepreneurs in Kenya's economy, the minister promised tomaintain a close working contact with the private sector.    The economy grew by 5.3 pct last year, up from 4.1 pct in1985, Ouko said. This was owing to high prices for thecountry's coffee exports, low oil prices, low inflation andrising real incomes, he added.    "Despite rising petroleum prices and falling coffee prices,Kenya's economy is still expected to improve in 1987," theplanning minister said.    Agriculture would expand significantly if favourableweather continued and farmers responded to producer price risesannounced in February, the minister added.    Kenyan farmers are anxiously awaiting the arrival of thelong rainy season, which is due to start about now.    Ouko said the production of Kenya's main cash cropsincreased during the second half of last year.    Coffee deliveries to the state-run Coffee Board of Kenyarose 17 pct and tea deliveries rose four pct during the period,he said. Reuter
JAPANESE GROUPS URGE DRASTIC ECONOMIC PACKAGE Japan's leading economic organisationsurged the Government to prepare drastic pump-priming measureseven at the cost of shelving Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone'splanned tax reforms, officials involved said.    Officials of the Federation of Economic Organisations(Keidanren) said in a meeting with government officials theGovernment should issue construction bonds as an emergencymeasure to prop up the economy.    Keidanren suggested that proceeds from sales of stocks inthe newly-privatised Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp shouldalso be used to stimulate the economy.    Keidanren Chairman Eishiro Saito said the dollar's fallbelow 150 yen would create huge unemployment and bankruptciesthat could shake the foundation of the Japanese economy.    The Keidanren meeting coincided with a written request fordrastic reflationary measures sent to the Government by theJapan Chamber of Commerce and Industry.    Both organisations called for stepped-up Bank of Japanintervention to stabilise exchange rates.    Chamber head Noboru Gotoh told a press conference theawaited economic package should be powerful enough to push upJapan's Gross National Product (GNP) by about two pct.    Gotoh said the Government could cope with the presentcritical economic condition even if it put off its plan to stopthe issue of deficit-covering bonds by fiscal 1990.    The plan to reduce the fiscal budget is a pillar ofNakasone's fiscal reconstruction program.  REUTER
BANK OF SPAIN GOVERNOR SAYS MONEY GROWTH TOO FAST Bank of Spain governor Mariano Rubio saidthe central bank was worried that money supply was growing toofast, reflecting excessive internal demand in the Spanisheconomy, but added that he was confident recent measures wouldsucceed in restricting money growth.    In testimony to the economic commission of Congress, Rubiosaid the main measure of money supply, the broad-based LiquidAssets in Public Hands, grew at an estimated annualised rate of17 pct in March, the same as in February.    The bank's target range for growth in this measure in 1987is 6.5 to 9.5 pct, compared with 11.4 pct last year.    Rubio said he was aiming for the lower end of the range.    He added that real GDP growth of three pct in 1986 was dueto a six pct increase in real internal demand and a three pctreal drop in the contribution of the external sector.    The aim for 1987 was for the same real growth in GDP but adrop in the internal contribution to 4.5 pct with the negativecomponent of the external sector trimmed to 1.5 pct, he said. REUTER
SWISS 1988 INFLATION SEEN AT TWO PCT - INSTITUTE Swiss inflation is likely to rise in 1987and 1988 because of inflationary tendencies in the domesticeconomy, the Centre for Economic Research of the FederalInstitute of Technology said in its spring review.    It forecast a rise in consumer prices of two pct in 1988compared with 1.3 pct in 1987. Low import prices in 1986 helpedto keep annual inflation down to 0.8 pct.    The centre said that in general the outlook for the Swisseconomy in 1987 and 1988 remained favourable, despite the moredifficult international economic climate facing exportindustry.    The centre repeated its previous forecast that growth inSwiss domestic product would slow to 2.2 pct in 1987 from 2.5pct in 1986. It revised its forecast for 1988 GDP growth to 1.7pct from 1.6 pct in its last autumn review.    Domestic demand will continue to replace exports as themotor of economic growth. Private consumption will grow bythree pct in 1987 and two pct in 1988 against 3.75 pct in 1986.    Growth in goods exports will slow to 1.75 pct in 1987 from2.1 pct in 1986 but pick up slightly to 2.5 pct in 1988. Allthree figures are well below the Swiss average for recentyears. In 1985, for example, exports increased by 9.1 pct.    The centre said the strength of the Swiss franc, which hasfirmed sharply in recent months, would continue to put pressureon Swiss exporters.    It forecast that imports of goods would grow by a moremodest 4.5 pct in 1987 and 3.25 pct in 1988 than in 1986, whenimport prices fell substantially and imports rose by 8.2 pct.    Industrial production will grow by 1.6 pct in 1987 and 1.2pct in 1988 compared with 4.2 pct in 1986. REUTER
SPAIN REVISES ECONOMIC TARGETS FOR 1987 Spain has revised some of its maineconomic targets for 1987 after studying the performance of theeconomy in the first quarter, the economy ministry said in itsmonthly bulletin.    Internal demand is now forecast to rise four pct against aprevious target of 3.5 pct.    Mariano Rubio, governor of the Bank of Spain, the centralbank, yesterday said internal demand was currently growing atan annual rate of six pct and it had to be brought down to fourpct if the government were to meet its five pct inflationtarget this year. Inflation was 8.3 pct in 1986.    The forecast for private consumption growth remainsunchanged at three pct, although public consumption is revisedupwards to 2.5 pct from 2.0 pct.    Growth in domestic demand will fuel imports, expected toincrease by 8.6 pct against an originally estimated 7.1 pct.    Export growth has been revised downwards to 3.7 pct from5.2 pct due to the peseta's continuing strength against thedollar and slack external demand.    Slow growth of exports and a tight rein on state spendinghas lowered estimated GDP growth to three pct in 1987 from anearlier forecast 3.5 pct. GDP grew by three pct last year.    The economy ministry is holding its inflation forecast tofive pct, in spite of minister Carlos Solchaga's doubts lastweek on whether this target could be maintained if wagesettlements continue to rise above the government's recommendedfive pct ceiling.    Unions and employers dispute the average wage increasesagreed so far this year. Trade unions calculate wagesettlements have produced average rises of 7.3 pct against 5.5pct estimated by the employers' federation CEOE. REUTER
PORTUGAL'S GDP FORECAST TO GROW FOUR PCT THIS YEAR Portugal's Gross Domestic Product (GDP)will grow around four pct this year, the same rate as in 1986,according to a Bank of Portugal forecast.    Total investment this year, the country's second as amember of the European Community (EC), will rise nearly 10 pct,again the same rate as last year, the central bank study said.    It added that Portugal's current account was forecast toshow a surplus of 400 mln dlrs this year compared with 1.13billion in 1986 and 369 mln the previous year.    Last year's high surplus was attributed to cheaper oil andraw materials, lower world interest rates and a weaker dollar.    Imports by volume were forecast to grow 10 pct this yearand exports four pct compared with increases of 16.5 pct and6.6 pct respectively in 1986, the bank said.    The forecasts were calculated on the assumption that thenon-expansionary monetary policy carried out by the currentgovernment would be maintained, particularly in budget spendingand income and in wage policy.    The bank added that the 1987 forecasts were also based onthe assumption that the international economic situation andPortugal's world trade relations would remain more or less thesame as in 1986.    The central bank said the high rate of investment estimatedfor 1986 was due to government policies and to increasingoptimism among firms whose financial situation had improvedsince 1985. This tendency was expected to continue this year,especially in the construction and public works sectors.    Financial aid from the EC had also helped to boostinvestment last year, the bank said. REUTER
PERU SAYS IT INTENDS TO DEEPEN DEBT STANCE President Alan Garcia said he sought todeepen Peru's hard-line foreign debt stance, possibly bylimiting repayments to the World Bank.    In a televised address tonight, he criticised the WorldBank for making Peru make larger debt payments than the amountthe bank is willing to make in new loans. "We will deepen ourpolicy on the foreign debt," he said.    Peru has limited foreign debt repayments to 10 pct ofexport earnings, effectively suspending most remittances dueforeign private banks and many governments. It has generallybeen current for most of Garcia's 20 months in office onpayments to the World Bank and the Inter-American DevelopmentBank.    But tonight Garcia said: "We have met our aim of limitingthe payment of the debt and will limit it also even thoughorganisations like the World Bank have credits which oblige usto buy a certain type of machinery and to build certain typesof public works and not others, and to pay much more in dollarsthan that which they are willing to newly lend us."    The Economy Ministry said last year it owed the World Bankabout 520 mln dlrs in loans out of the country's 14 billion dlrdebt.    Garcia said his government had been a model for LatinAmerica because Peru had enjoyed growth in gross domesticproduct (GDP) last year of nine pct while taking its hard lineon debt. He said GDP would grow by at least six pct this year.    He announced an immediate 40 pct rise in the minimum wageto 1,260 intis per month, benefiting the 1.3 mln minimum-wageworkers out of a total labour force of 6.7 mln.    Salaries will go up this month by 30 pct for civil servantsand 27 pct for those workers earning above the minimum wage butnot covered by collective bargaining agreements.    He also said the price of petrol, frozen since August 1,1985, would increase by 20 pct from the current 17.5 intis perU.S. Gallon and remain at the new level for the rest of theyear. He did not say when this increase would be effective.    Taxes on petrol are the government's leading revenueearner, traditionally accounting for about one-third of taxes.Sales taxes on autos, liquour and cigarettes would also go up,he said, without specifying the amount.    Garcia announced the government would encourage Peruviansto repatriate their savings deposited abroad by paying a 15 pctpremium above the market exchange rate.    The inti's official buy-sell rate against the dollar is14.85/92 and the free rate is about 21.70/80.    To encourage private investment, he said the governmentwould set up a special fund with which it would match every twointis of private investment with one inti from the government.    He also said his dismissal of Peruvian Air Force CommanderLieutenant General Luis Abram Cavarellino yesterdaystrengthened the democratic authority of his government. REUTER
MARCH U.S. PURCHASING MANAGERS INDEX UP AT 53.9 The U.S. economy in March improved at afaster rate than in February, with the National Association ofPurchasing Management's composite index rising to 53.9 pct from51.9 pct, the NAPM said.    The first quarter average for the index also was 53.9 pct.The NAPM said that, if this average were to continue for therest of 1987, it would be consistent with real gross nationalproduct growth of about three pct.    An index reading above 50 pct generally indicates that theeconomy is in an expanding phase. One below 50 pct implies adeclining economy.    The NAPM said the economic improvement was evident in allof the indicators in the index except inventories, whichdeclined slightly.    New orders rose sharply in March, with production alsohigher. Vendor deliveries slowed, another sign that the economyimproved in March. Employment expanded for the first time sinceAugust 1984.    Robert Bretz, chairman of the NAPM's business surveycommittee and director of materials management at Pitney BowesInc <PBI> said "the economy ended the first quarter with ahealthy, if not substantial improvement."    Bretz said the sharp rise in the growth of new orders inMarch assures a good beginning for the second quarter.    Some 50 pct of the purchasing managers reported that theywere paying higher prices in March than at the end of 1986. Ofthose paying higher prices now, the average increase was put at2.5 pct.    The estimated average price increase anticipated by membersfor the remainder of 1987 is 2.1 pct. While prices continue torise, the NAPM said that most purchasers do not see them asbeing significant.    The composite index is a seasonally adjusted figure, basedon five components of the NAPM business survey - new orders,production, vendor deliveries, inventories and employment.    The monthly report is based on questions asked ofpurchasing managers at 250 U.S. industrial companies. Reuter
SOUTH KOREA'S 1987 GNP SEEN GROWING NINE PCT South Korea's gross national product (gnp)is forecast to grow by nine pct in 1987, surpassing thegovernment's original forecast of eight pct and against a 12.5pct rise in 1986, an Economic Planning Board report said.    The report reviewing the country's economy in the firstthree months of this year said year-on-year gnp wasprovisionally estimated to have grown by about 12 pct in theperiod, against a 10.5 pct growth in the same 1986 period.    Board officials said the gnp rise in the January-Marchperiod is due largely to increased exports, which totalled 9.34billion dlrs against 6.9 billion a year earlier. REUTER
U.S. TO PRESS FOR FASTER JAPANESE, GERMAN GROWTH The U.S. Administration, underCongressional pressure to cut the trade deficit, will urgeTokyo and Bonn to meet commitments to speed economic growth tostabilise currencies at Wednesday's meetings of leadingindustrial nations in Washington, monetary sources said.    The U.S. Will also try to develop proposals made at the1986 Tokyo Summit for measures to ensure agreements such as theParis Accord are more binding, they said.    Treasury Secretary James Baker's dual initiatives reflectU.S. Frustration with the two countries for not moving fastenough to curb their huge trade surpluses, they added.    Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa is expected tobring the outline of an economic stimulus package to themeeting, which will be attended by West Germany, France,Britain, Italy and Canada as well as the U.S. And Japan, thesources said.    "The sooner the Japanese can announce their intention toannounce a stimulative package,the better it is for Japan andfor the exchange markets in general," one of the sources said.    Treasury Secretary James Baker said the Paris Agreement, inwhich West Germany and Japan made their commitments, will berenewed by the industrial countries this week.    Other U.S. Officials said a meeting of the Group of Sevenwill be a status report on progress Bonn and Tokyo have madesetting up stimulus measures.    The U.S. Will tell its partners that it expects a furthersubstantial budget deficit reduction package to be agreed withCongress this year, the sources said.    Washington would like its economic partners to establishspecific economic policy goals. Sharp deviations from the setobjectives would trigger consultations among the countries onappropriate corrective action, they added.    The Paris accord envisaged surplus countries like Japan andWest Germany stimulating domestic demand to absorb more importsand the U.S. Cutting its budget deficit, thereby depressing itsdemand for imports.    But the markets are signalling the dollar's floor may befar below its level at the time the Paris agreement was struck,the sources said.    Monetary sources also said the dollar's recent sharp fallagainst the yen reflected the U.S.-Japanese dispute oversemi-conductor trade which resulted in U.S. Tariffs on certainJapanese electronic goods.    One of the sources said the dispute has to some extentsoured the atmosphere ahead of the meetings.    Congressional sentiment for protectionist measures, aimedparticularly at Japan, has strengthened, the sources said. REUTER
JAPAN BUSINESS TO URGE GOVERNMENT TO SPUR ECONOMY A top Japanese businessman said thecountry's four largest economic organizations will soon presentto the government a set of proposals to expand domestic demand.    Eishiro Saito, Chairman of the Federation of EconomicOrganizations (Keidanren), told a news conference thegovernment should draw up a package of economic measurestotalling more than 5,000 billion yen.    Saito said the government's package should include plans toremove residual import restrictions on agricultural productsand to lift tariffs on industrial products.    Leading industrialised countries should also step upconcerted market intervention to stabilize exchange rates,Saito said.    The measures will be presented to Prime Minister YasuhiroNakasone as a joint proposal of Keidanren, the Japan Federationof Employers' Association, the Japan Committee for EconomicDevelopment and the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry.    Saito said Japan should stop paying only lip service to itspledges to open its markets.    The proposed measures should be undertaken by increasedfiscal spending, he added. REUTER
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - KUWAITI ECONOMY Kuwait's oil-reliant and debt-riddeneconomy has started to pull out of a nosedive but oil priceswill determine the pace of recovery, bankers and economistssay.    Crucial will be the ability of the 13-member OPEC to holdoil prices around a new benchmark of 18 dlrs a barrel in thenorthern hemisphere summer when demand usually slackens.    Bankers estimate the economy, measured in terms of grossdomestic product (gdp), shrank 19 pct in real terms last yearafter contracting 8.1 pct the year before.    This was after taking into account inflation in consumerprices of 1.5 pct in 1985, slowing to 1.0 pct in 1986.    Factors depressing economic activity include the6-1/2-year-old Iran-Iraq war on Kuwait's doorstep, whichthreatens the emirate's vital oil export lifeline through theGulf and has sapped business confidence.    But sentiment received a much-needed boost in Septemberwhen, after a series of piecemeal steps to combat a debt crisiscaused by the 1982 crash of local stock market, a comprehensivenew debt settlement program was introduced.    The share crash, result of a speculative spree in forwardtrading, left 95 billion dlrs of post-dated cheques in default.    The cheques were also used as collateral for consumerspending, thus generating an informal credit system.    Much of the debt has been watered down but big sums arestill owed by individuals and companies.    There was some 4.4 billion dinars (about 15.7 billion dlrs)in outstanding bank credit at the end of 1986, of whichone-quarter to one-third was estimated by bankers to rank asbad or doubtful debt. But the government has repeatedly said itwill not allow any banks to go under.    The new debt settlement scheme entails a rescheduling ofproblem credit over 10 to 15 years, depending on whetherdebtors have regular cash flows or not.    Banks' shareholders and depositors will have their rightsguaranteed by the government -- an edict of vital significancein a country of only 1.7 mln people where the financial sectoris the biggest after oil.    Kuwait is better placed than any other OPEC country to rideout the oil glut, bankers and economists say.    Kuwait has an OPEC quota of 948,000 barrels per day (bpd)compared with production capacity of 4.0 mln bpd mentioned lastyear by Oil Minister Sheikh Ali al-Khalifa al-Sabah.    But strategic diversification into downstream operations inEurope several years ago and a hefty refining investment athome gives it guaranteed markets abroad and enables it to sellover one-half of its output as high-grade refined oil products.    Oil industry sources say Kuwait is able to get an average2.00 dlrs a barrel more by selling oil in the form of processedproduct such as gas oil, kerosene and naphtha, rather than ascrude.    Bankers say the rebound in oil prices is the major reasonfor cautious optimism. Other reasons are low domesticinflation, a bottoming out of the fall in imports in recentyears and signs government spending on productive sectors willremain steady.    External accounts are in good shape, with an estimated 1.8billion dinar current account surplus in 1986, 16 pct belowthat for 1985, but still an achievement in the recession-hitGulf.    Kuwait's petrodollar reserves in mid-1986 were putofficially at over 80 billion dlrs, earning investment incomeof the equivalent of about 3.65 billion dlrs a year.    But for the first time since the end of the oil boom, thesereserves may not be enough to prevent a "real" budget deficit forthe 1986/87 fiscal year ending June 30, bankers say.    In a budget portrayed by bankers as mildly contractionary,revenues for 1986/87 were cut 38.6 pct and spending 11 pct,doubling the nominal deficit to 1.33 billion dinars.    This left out income from state reserves, usually excludedin official budget accounting, which are forecast by bankers atup to 1.0 billion dinars in 1986/87, resulting in someshortfall.    Bankers say it is too early to venture a forecast foreconomic growth this year or next.    "It depends on oil prices," one said. "This summer isimportant."    Cabinet Affairs Minister Rashid al-Rashid said last Sundaythe cabinet has ratified recommendations to rationalise statespending in favour of productive sectors and reactivate theeconomy.    He gave no details but bankers say these are expected to bespelled out in the 1987/88 budget, possibly in June. REUTER
GLOBAL ECONOMIC SLOWDOWN RAISES NEW DEBT FEARS The global economy is expected toweaken this year, adding new worries to an already seriouspoverty outlook, economic analysts said.    For finance ministers and central bankers attending thisweek's semi-annual meetings of the International Monetary Fundand World Bank, the new figures released by the IMF add anadditional concern.    The Fund estimated world output would only grow by 2.7 pctthis year, versus 2.9 pct last year, and 3.1 pct in 1985.    In the industrial countries, Gross National Product, ameasure of all goods and services, was expected to decline to2.3 pct this year, compared with 2.4 pct in 1986, the IMF said.    For the developing countries, the Gross Domestic Product,another measure of economic growth, was expected to fall to 3.0pct from 3.5 pct last year.    The new figures are considered a major disappointment tothe poorest countries. They had hoped that new vitality in theindustrial countries brought on by a sharp decline in oilprices would assist their economic recovery and help them copewith growing mounds of debt.    IMF officials, discussing their outlook, said they believedthe industrial country economies would move up to an annualgrowth rate of three pct by the end of the decade.    Economic analysts and the IMF have been saying for sometime that the ability to keep the debt crisis from turning intoan economic rout rests on sustained economic growth.    Since the debtor countries must look to the wealthierstates for markets for their products as well as financialassistance, economic weakness in the developed nations' economies poses fundamental worries.    Debtor countries, including the very poorest states, haveonly a few avenues open to them for earning foreign exchange,including the key one of exports.    The U.S. economy, which is in its fifth year of expansion,has served as a mainstay for developing country exports, but ittoo is seen as being rather feeble this year, growing by only2.3 pct, according to the IMF.    For this reason and because of a high trade deficit, theUnited States has been pressuring Japan and West Germany toignite their economies but with little apparent success.    The IMF study also examines the course of the dollar andthe curious lack of impact it has had on the U.S. tradedeficit.    Reagan administration officials have been saying that theimpact is now beginning to show up, although it has been muchslower than expected.    The IMF observed in its World Economic Outlook that "it hasto be recognized that exchange rate adjustments take time towork through to payments flows -- probably at least three yearsto get a resonably complete effect."    The report added, however, "the adjustments may take evenmore time on this occasion."REUTER^M
AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT MUST CUT SPENDING, ANZ SAYS The government must announce harsh cutsin spending in its May 14 economic statement if it is to givean adequate response to Australia's economic problems, the ANZBanking Group Ltd <ANZA.S> said.    Cuts of two billion dlrs would be insufficient against thebackdrop of a 12 billion dlr government deficit and a 14billion dlr current account deficit, it said in its monthlyBusiness Indicators publication.    "For the past two years, the government has struggled withan economic reality that demands measures beyond those which itsees as politically practicable," it said.    The political climate meant there would be a continuedover-reliance on monetary policy to hold the exchange rate andmaintain confidence in economic management, ANZ said.    "The cost of this approach is that the much-needed revivalof business investment will be further postponed," it said.    The economy was now on a modest growth upswing boosted byexport and import-replacement industries which had created afalse suggestion that the worst adjustments to the balance ofpayments crisis were past. "Unfortunately, successful adjustmentto Australia's deep-seated economic problems remains along-term process," it said.    In its economic forecasts, ANZ said it expected moderateoverall economic growth with gross domestic product (GDP)rising 2.7 pct this year and 2.4 pct in 1988.    The current account deficit would narrow to five pct of GDPthis year and 4.3 pct in 1988 and net foreign debt would growstrongly from 81 billion at the end of 1986 to 97.2 billion atend-1987 and 110.3 billion a year later.    Inflation would fall to 8.5 pct in 1987 and 7.5 pct in 1988from 8.9 pct in 1986 and further falls in real wages wereexpected, ANZ said. REUTER
INSTITUTES DIVIDED ON OUTLOOK FOR GERMAN ECONOMY The five leading West German economicresearch institutes have failed to agree about how strongly thedomestic economy will expand this year but revised downforecasts contained in a report published six months ago.    The three research groups of Kiel, Hamburg and Essenpredicted in the institutes' joint spring report that grossnational product (GNP) would rise by two pct in 1987, comparedwith 2.4 pct in 1986. The five institutes had jointly forecastthree pct 1987 growth in October last year.    Taking a dissenting view, the DIW institute of West Berlinand Munich's Ifo institute predicted only one pct 1987 growth.    The joint report said that the estimates of economicdevelopment made by the DIW and Ifo were "markedly lessfavourable" than those of the other three.    The DIW and Ifo forecast the economy would pick up after aslow start to the year. "In the second half of 1987 there will,however, only be a weak upward movement," they said.    The two institutes said external economic factors whichwere currently damaging exports and pushing up imports woulddominate the economic environment throughout the year. They sawexports falling by a real 2-1/2 pct in 1987 and predicted nomarked improvement in the course of the year.    The other three institutes, however, wrote: "The decline indemand and production (seen) in the winter months does notindicate the beginning of a cyclical downswing."    They said the sharp rise of the mark had led to corporateuncertainty and companies had not carried out investment plans.But they expected that many investments had not been cancelledbut only put off. "It can be presumed that the braking actions(on the economy) will diminish markedly this year."    They added: "The domestic prerequisites for a continuationof the economic uptrend are still favourable."    These three institutes said diminishing external burdenscombined with favourable domestic conditions meant an upturn indemand and production could be expected by the spring.    However, this projection was clouded by risks including thefurther development of the mark against the dollar.    Contrary to the DIW and Ifo, the three institutes said thatwhile exports would continue to be the weak point of theeconomy in 1987, "there is good reason to believe that exportswill soon bottom out and that a slight rise will emerge duringthe course of the year." They predicted an overall 0.5 pct fallin exports in 1987, the same as in 1986.    The three more positive institutes saw private consumptionrising by four pct in 1987, compared with 4.2 pct in 1986,while DIW and Ifo predicted a three pct increase.    They saw the climate for equipment investment improving butpredicted only a rise of four pct in 1987 against 4.6 pct in1986. Ifo and DIW saw these investments rising by only two pct.    All the institutes predicted only a slight decline inunemployment. The Kiel, Hamburg and Essen institutes said thejobless total would average 2.17 mln in 1987 compared with 2.23mln in 1986 and predicted a rise in the number of people inwork of about 200,000.    These three institutes said new jobs would be createdmainly in the private services sector and also by the state inthe context of job creation measures. The construction industrywas likely to engage new workers for the first time since 1980but they predicted either no rise in employment in themanufactured goods industry or only a slight expansion.    The DIW and Ifo said rises in employment would occur onlyin the tertiary sector, while "the number employed in themanufacturing industry will decline."    The DIW and Ifo said unemployment would only decline to2.20 mln in 1987 from 2.23 mln in 1986.    They saw the current account surplus falling in 1987 to 58billion marks from 78 billion in 1986. The other three saw acurrent account surplus in 1987 of at least 60 billion marksand predicted that the trade surplus would fall to only around100 billion marks from 112 billion in 1986.    The institutes agreed that consumer prices would start torise in 1987, after they declined in 1986, and all fivepredicted an average increase over the year of 0.5 pct. REUTER
WEST GERMAN INSTITUTES CALL FOR EARLY TAX CUTS The five leading West German economicresearch institutes said the government should do more tostimulate economic growth and called for early introduction oftax cuts planned for 1990.    In their joint spring report the institutes were dividedabout 1987 growth forecasts, with three predicting two pctexpansion and the other two only one pct growth. Gross nationalproduct grew 2.4 pct last year.    But the report said all the institutes believed that "moremust be done to produce dynamic growth so that more additionaljobs can be created."    The institutes said any step which improved basic economicconditions should be taken as quickly as possible. "From thispoint of view, the tax reform planned for 1990 should bebrought forward."    The government plans gross tax reductions of 44 billionmarks as part of the major tax reform. The net tax relief fromthe tax reform will amount to 25 billion marks.    However, the institutes criticised the government, not onlyfor the timing of the reform, but also because the question ofits financing had been left open.    The government has not specified how the remaining 19billion marks of the tax reduction package will be paid for,though it has said it wants to cut state subsidies.    The institutes said this lack of clarity from Bonn hadcaused uncertainty among companies and households as to whatexactly they would receive from the tax reform and urged aquick decision from the government.    They also said the government should reduce taxpreferences, which would simplify the fiscal system, urged arestriction of state spending and called for no increase invalue-added tax.    The institutes also criticised Bonn for increasingsubsidies at a time further reductions had been pledged.    They referred specifically to a doubling of specialwritedowns for small and medium sized companies announced in apackage of tax adjustments planned for 1988 and described thisas an increase in subsidies.    The institutes said total subsidies, including taxpreferences, had reached 80 billion marks in 1985 and risenfurther since then. Given the scope of these subsidies, itshould be possible "despite ... Major political difficulties" tofinance the tax reform by cutting state handouts.    The institutes said that if the government raised valueadded tax or other indirect taxes a large portion of thepositive effects resulting from lower taxes would be lost.    The report also noted that the government was progressingonly slowly with its plans to privatise state companies andsaid more deregulation was needed. The government had to aimfor more competition, it said. REUTER
BANGEMANN REJECTS CALL FOR EARLY TAX CUTS West German Economics Minister MartinBangemann indirectly rejected a call from the country's leadingeconomic research institutes for early introduction of a majortax reform involving gross tax cuts of 44 billion marks.    In a statement reacting to the five institutes' jointspring report, Bangemann said that as far as the call forbringing forward the 1990 tax reform was concerned --    "The government points out that the positive effects forgrowth of its policy of consolidation (cutting the budgetdeficit) must not be allowed to be endangered."    Bangemann also recalled that the scope of tax cuts plannedfor 1988 had already been increased.    Three institutes predicted two pct economic growth in 1987,with exports falling by 0.5 pct. The other two saw only one pctgrowth and said exports would fall 2.5 pct.    Bangemann said "The government, agreeing with the majority,sees no reason for the extraordinarily pessimistic estimate forexports expressed by the minority."    He said there was reason to believe that export demandwould start to rise in the course of the year, partly becauseof a further increase in world trade. REUTER
ITALIAN GDP ROSE 2.4 PCT IN 1986 FOURTH QUARTER Italy's Gross Domestic Product, calculatedat 1980 prices, rose 2.4 pct in the fourth quarter of 1986,compared with the same period in 1985, National StatisticsInstitute ISTAT said.    ISTAT said in a statement that GDP growth in fourth quarter1986 was zero compared with the preceding quarter. Italy'sbudget ministry said last month that 1986 GDP rose 2.7 pct inreal terms from 1985.    Imports in the fourth quarter totalled 26,361 billion lire,down 1.4 pct from the 1985 fourth quarter and down 6.6 pct fromthe third 1986 quarter, ISTAT said.    Istat said exports totaled 23,190 billion lire in thefourth quarter, down 4.1 pct from the comparable 1985 quarterand down 6.7 pct from the third quarter in 1986.    Fixed investments were 23,438 billion lire in the fourthquarter, down 0.7 pct from the preceding quarter and up 1.1 pctfrom the comparable 1985 quarter. REUTER
INSTITUTES SEE NO WEST GERMAN RECESSION The five leading West German economicresearch institutes, which have revised down their forecastsfor 1987 growth, do not predict a recession in West Germany,their spokesman, Hans-Juergen Schmahl said.    The institutes were divided in their spring report onforecasts for 1987, with three predicting two pct growth andtwo seeing only one pct expansion. Growth was 2.4 pct in 1986.    Schmahl, presenting the report at a news conference, said,"None of the institutes reckons with a recession or with thebeginning of a recession." He added, however, that exportsremained the weak point of the economy .    Schmahl also said West Germany would have to expect furtherencroachments of foreign goods onto its markets.    Arthur Krumper of Munich's Ifo institute, which with theDIW of West Berlin had presented the more pessimistic view ofthe economy, said, "The braking effects (on the economy)produced by external factors will remain considerable for mostof the year." REUTER
PORTUGUESE ECONOMY REMAINS BUOYANT DESPITE CRISIS Portugal's economy, which has beenenjoying one of its most buoyant periods in more than a decade,may now be strong enough to shrug off the country's latestgovernment crisis, analysts said.    But the April 3 ousting of Prime Minister Anibal CavacoSilva's government could slow economic reforms and investmentas Portugal continues to adapt to membership in the EuropeanCommunity, which it joined in January last year, they said.    Cavaco Silva's minority Social Democratic Party, PSD, wastoppled in a parliamentary censure vote by left-wing parties.    The centre-right administration had made economic growthreform a priority in its 17 months in office.    In 1986, Portugal's economy grew four pct, its currentaccount surplus swelled to more than one billion dlrs andinflation fell to 10 pct, from 20 pct in 1985.    Analysts and businessmen said the prospects of instabilitywere worrying but they felt the foundations for continuedgrowth had not been badly shaken.    "The economy has developed a certain self-confidence that isnow less dependent on the political situation," said FritzHaser, economics professor at Universidade Livre, Lisbon.    "The market doesn't see this as a real crisis yet," economistJorge Braga de Macedo told Reuters.    Businessmen have identified political instability over thelast 13 years as one of the biggest obstacles to lastingeconomic progress.    The PSD administration was the 16th formed since the 1974revolution.    Portugal's developing stock markets, however, remainbuoyant. Brokers and unit trust managers said the recent surgein economic confidence under the PSD rule was still largelyunderpinned by continuing optimistic forecasts.    Investment grew nearly 10 pct in 1986 and a Bank ofPortugal forecast, released on the day the PSD government fell,predicted the pace of investment and overall economic growthwould remain at similar levels this year.    But analysts said the crisis interrupted current policiesand could slow economic development.    Soares, who is expected to announce a decision by the endof the month, can either call early elections or form a newgovernment from parties in the existing left wing-dominatedparliament.    Many businessmen said they strongly favoured quickelections as the best solution. "There is a good chance that amajority government could result from early elections,"Confederation of Portuguese Industry (CIP) president PedroFerraz da Costa said.    He said they were optimistic this could mean thecontinuation in the near future of liberalisation policiesintroduced over the last year.    The left-wing parties favour a parliamentary solution, butthe PSD said it wants an early election in which opinion pollssay they could win an overall majority.    A PSD majority would also open the way for morewide-ranging reforms, such as relaxation of labour laws andpossible denationalisation of industry, the analysts said.    Cavaco Silva has accused the left-wing opposition partiesof blocking key economic reforms.    The left-wingers said Portugal's positive economic resultswere more the product of favourable international conditionssuch as cheaper oil and raw material imports, than of PSDpolicies. REUTER
GERMAN INSTITUTES WARN ON MONEY SUPPLY Four of West Germany's five leadingeconomic research institutes warned that excessive monetarygrowth threatened a resurgence of inflation.    But in a dissenting view the DIW institute in West Berlin,echoing recent statements by leading Bundesbank officials, saidthe expansion seen over the last 1-1/2 years did notnecessarily threaten stability.    The five institutes issued a joint spring report, in whichthree -- Kiel, Hamburg and Essen -- forecast a two pct rise inGNP in 1987, while West Berlin and Munich predicted one pct.    The four institutes said an expansive policy was welcome inview of the slowdown in economic activity. But experience hasshown that strong monetary growth eventually leads to a pricerise which undoes the beneficial effects of monetary policy.    Given virtual zero inflation in West Germany such fears mayseem exaggerated, they said.    "But it has often turned out in the past that the priceclimate can quickly deteriorate, forcing the central bank intoa restrictive policy," they said.    The economic costs of a preventive stability policy areless than fighting inflation once it has taken hold, they said.    The four institutes disputed the view that monetaryexpansion would slow of its own accord in 1987 as domesticinvestors switch liquidity into longer term capital marketinvestments following lower interest rates.    "Such redispositions may temporarily dampen the expansion ofcentral bank money stock, but do not automatically lead to asmaller expansion of money supply," they said.    A return to growth and stability did not requirespectacular central bank moves, but could be done quietly withopen market operations and repurchase pacts, which would avoidan interest rate rise by dampening inflationary expectations.    The DIW institute said monetary policy should not befocused simply on growth of production potential. Because ofuncertainty about exchange rate developments and economicweakness other factors should be taken into account.    Monetary policy should aim for further interest rate cutsand avoid rises to boost the economy and discourage revaluationspeculation. Recent strong monetary expansion was not a threatin itself to price stability.    The 1979/81 inflation following strong 1977/78 money growthreflected other causes, such as rising oil prices and thefalling mark. REUTER
WORLD BANK SUGGESTS MORE OPEN ECONOMY FOR INDIA The World Bank has suggested Indiashould move to a more open economy by gradually removing mostgovernment controls on industry and adopting a liberal externaltrade policy with reduced levels of protection.    A confidential "executive summary" of a draft Bank report onthe Indian economy was made available to Reuters. It suggestsliberalisation as part of a package of reforms to boost exportsof Indian goods by making them more competitive.    The summary said, "These reforms would result in (domestic)prices much more in line with world prices than is true today,and in a greater degree of import competition and exportrivalry than the nation has ever seen."    The summary said foreign trade must play a key role inIndia's transition towards a more dynamic economy. Liberalimports of capital goods would help modernise the economy andexpose Indian producers to foreign competition. Larger exportswould provide the foreign exchange for imports.    "The main guideline is unambiguously to abandon the presentprinciple of unlimited protection for all indigenouslyavailable products and to recognise the role of actual orpotential competition from imports as a source of discipline onthe prices and costs of public and private sector domesticmanufacturers," the summary said.    An Indian official told Reuters the government wasdiscussing the report with the Bank. A final report with somechanges was likely to be ready by May, but he declined to givefurther details.    The Bank and industrialised nations will discuss the Bank'sfinal report at a meeting in Paris on June 22 and 23 to discussaid for India in the 1987/88 year starting in June.    The summary said India's gross domestic product (gdp) grewat an average five pct in Indian fiscal years 1985/86 and1986/87, which ended in March.    It said investment was being sustained at nearly 25 pct ofgdp. Almost 94 pct of the investment was being financed bynational savings, mainly from the private sector.    India's trade deficit is officially said to have narrowedto 5.6 billion dlrs in 1986/87 ended March, from a record 6.96billion dlrs in 1985/86. The current account deficit fell to2.4 billion dlrs in 1986/87 from 2.88 billion in 1985/86.    But the summary said the improvement was largely due tolower prices of crude oil, petroleum products and fertiliserswhich make up the bulk of India's import bill.    India was able to save about 2.6 billion dlrs in foreignexchange in 1986/87 due to lower prices of those products, thesummary said.    The Bank's summary said there was little room forcomplacency in the balance of payments position.    It said that despite a lower trade deficit in 1986/87,Indian foreign exchange reserves fell by 240 mln dlrs.    Real export growth would need to average at least 6.1 pct ayear in value terms in the coming years to maintain a viablebalance of payments, the summary said.    It did not explicitly suggest the rupee should be devalued.India "might have to reaffirm the commitment to exporting whileundertaking some dramatic changes in general incentives thatinvolve some political costs," it said.    "An example of such a policy would be the adoption of anexchange rate regime that maintained exporters' profitability,"the summary said.    It said such an approach had been successful in countriessuch as South Korea, Colombia and Turkey. It would maintain thecompetitiveness of Indian exports and simultaneously reduceimport pressures.    Earlier this year, the Indian government denied that theWorld Bank asked it to devalue the Indian rupee to boostexports. REUTER
THAI CABINET APPROVES SEVEN PCT BUDGET INCREASE The Thai Cabinet approved a seven pctincrease in the national budget for fiscal 1987/88 startingnext October, compared with a 6.2 pct increase for the currentyear ending September, a government spokesman said.    He told reporters the budget, to be presented to Parliamentby late next month or in early June, calls for spending of243.5 billion baht against 227.5 billion this year.    The new budget is intended to make Thailand's GrossDomestic Product grow by at least five pct during the yearwithout compromising its conservative fiscal and monetarypolicy, the spokesman said.    "The budget is in line with our policy to stimulate theeconomy and to achieve a stable growth while we continuemaintaining our current cautious fiscal policy," he said.    The spokesman said the budget provides for a 9.6 pctincrease in fresh government investment expenditure to 39.8billion baht, up from 36.3 billion this year.    Government revenue is projected to grow 7.5 pct to 199.5billion baht against 185.5 billion targetted for 1986/87.    He said the budget contains a 44 billion baht deficit, orabout 3.4 pct of GDP, compared with 42 billion or 3.5 pctplanned for this year.  The deficit is required by Thai laws tobe financed by domestic borrowings.    The finalised budget bill earmarks 59.8 billion baht, or24.6 pct of total expenditure, for servicing the government'sdomestic and foreign debt, up from 56 billion and a similar24.6 pct this year. REUTER
CREATIVE MONETARY POLICY TO SPUR KUWAITI ECONOMY Kuwait, a major oil producer hit by lastyear's price slump, is leaning towards a more creative monetarypolicy to help spur its economy, banking sources said.    "There is a clear emphasis on encouraging the use of moneyin productive ventures, rather than having it all tied up ininterest bearing investments which have no direct productiveoutlet," one banker said.    Kuwait's Central Bank yesterday cut one key money marketrate and abandoned another which had been used since February1986 to direct inter-bank borrowing and lending costs.    The bank reduced to six pct from 6-1/2 pct the rate atwhich it will offer funds of one month to one year in theinter-bank market. This, in turn, affected retail rates.    The cut, the third this year, followed a major overhaul ofinterest rate policy last month which Central Bank GovernorSheikh Salem Abdul-Aziz al-Sabah said was designed to revivethe economy.    One banker said "There is growing flexibility, creativity,in interest rate policy, amid an awareness of the need todiversify the economy by stimulating the non-oil sector."    For the first time in nearly three years domestic interestrates are now significantly below those for the U.S. Dollar, afavourite haven for Gulf speculative and investor funds in thepast, banking sources said.    Despite uncertainties generated by the 6-1/2 year old Iran-Iraq war on Kuwait's northern doorstep, bankers play down theprospect of any significant capital flight.    The Kuwaiti dinar, whose value is set by the Central Bankand was fixed today at 0.27095/129 to the dollar, is strongernow than for several years.    Fears that the dollar may fall further will prompt secondthoughts among Kuwaiti investors prepared to consider switchingfunds into the U.S. Currency, the sources said.    "There is a distinct exchange rate risk," they added.    Bankers said the dollar slump hurt many investors behindthe last major capital outflow in 1984, encouraged then by 18pct U.S. Interest rates and the start of Iranian attacks onneutral shipping in the Gulf.    The Central Bank calculates its dinar exchange rate againsta basket of currencies. Bankers do not know the basket's exactmake-up but say it is weighted heavily in favour of the dollar.    Some bankers believe any strengthening of the dinar beyond0.27000 to the dollar might provoke investors into shiftingfunds into the U.S. Currency. "They may ask:When will the dollarbe so cheap again?" one said.    And with dinar interest rates now roughly one pct belowthose for the dollar, they say the Central Bank faces adelicate balancing role requiring further flexibility.    Bankers said the current, expansionary interest rate policyis only part of a broader attempt to encourage local investmentand strengthen the backbone of the economy.    They estimate the economy, measured in terms of GDP andallowing for inflation, shrank 19 pct in 1986 after an 8.1 pctcontraction the previous year.    Bankers also noted recent measures to stimulate stockmarket activity, capped today by sharp cuts in brokerage feesto make it cheaper for investors to trade. REUTER
SWISS GROWTH SEEN SLOWING THIS YEAR AND NEXT The growth of the Swisseconomy will likely slow to 2.2 pct this year and 1.9 pct in1988 after reaching 2.8 pct last year, according to a study bya group at Basle University's Institute of Applied Economics.    It blamed the expected slowdown partly on a disappointingoutlook for exports caused by the weaker dollar. Exports wouldlikely grow by 2.8 pct this year and by 3.0 pct in 1988, after3.0 pct in 1986, the group predicted.    Final domestic demand will also fall back, to a likely 3.0pct this year and 2.3 pct next, after 4.1 pct in 1986. However,the domestic picture will likely be mixed.    The study said investment in plant and equipment wouldcontinue to be the main motor for the growth in domesticdemand, although it was unlikely to grow as fast as last year's7.4 pct, rising this year by 4.5 pct and by 2.8 pct in 1988.    While the growth in private consumption is expected to fallback to 2.5 pct this year and 2.1 pct in 1988 from last year's3.1 pct, public consumption spending will likely grow by 1.9pct in 1987 and 2.0 pct next year, after 1.5 pct in 1986.    Consumer prices were seen rising by 1.7 pct this year and2.4 pct in 1988, after just 0.8 pct in 1986. Unemploymentshould fall back to 0.7 pct from last year's 0.8 pct. REUTER
GERMAN GROWTH WILL NOT CUT U.S. DEFICIT -BANGEMANN Economics Minister Martin Bangemann, whoflies to Washington this weekend for high level talks, saidboosting West German economic growth would not have anysignificant effect on the high U.S. Current account deficit.    In a paper prepared ahead of his trip, Bangemann saidBonn's trading partners had been asking whether West Germangrowth was slowing and whether the Federal Republic should notin the future pursue more strongly expansionary policies.    In the paper Bangemann wrote, "It is not possible to reducethe U.S. Current account deficit by any signficant amount justthrough more stimulation of the West German economy."    One U.S. Administration policy maker said in Washingtonthis week that the United States government wanted West Germanyand Japan to reduce their interest rates even further tostimulate their economies.    Bangemann said it was clear the high mark, as well asuncertainty about further currency developments, was makingcompanies here cautious about production plans and investments.    While West Germany did not seek exchange rates whichunilaterally favoured its exports, it favoured more stabilityand realistic rates, which corresponded to "fundamentals."    He welcomed the February "Louvre Agreement" of six industrialnations to stabilise currencies and said, "(We) expect allparties to hold by the accords struck there." West Germany hadfulfilled its pledge of boosting planned tax cuts, he noted.    Despite calls for lower interest rates, BundesbankVice-President Helmut Schlesinger has hinted that central bankpolicy may even have to be tightened.    He wrote in a newspaper article published yesterday thatthe Bundesbank's current accommodative stance could notcontinue in the long term.    During his trip to Washington, which runs from April 26 to29, Bangemann will meet Secretary of State George Shultz, tradeenvoy Clayton Yeutter, World Bank President Barber Conable, IMFManaging Director Michel Camdessus and Paul Volcker, Chairmanof the Federal Reserve Board. REUTER
SEAGA PRESENTS GROWTH BUDGET FOR 1987 prime minister edward seagalast night presented a budget of 6.9 billion jamaica dlrs, thelargest in the country's history, which projects increases incapital spending and continued divestment of state companies.    In a nationally televised speech to the parliament, theprime minister, who is also minister of finance, said jamaica'sgdp grew by four pct, the highest level in 15 years, whileunemployment stood at 23.6 pct, down from last year's 26 pct.Inflation, meanwhile, was 9.4 pct, as compared to 19.7 pct twoyears ago.    Government revenues were up by 419 mln jamaica dlrs, to 4.3billion, enough to finance the entire recurrent expenditure of3.7 billion dlrs, with a 666 mln dlr surplus.    Seaga said that with financial accounts in order, thegovernment will proceed to reduce the country's debt serviceratio from the current level of 49 pct of gdp to 25 pct overthe next five years.    During this period, he said, growth would be targetted atthree to four pct.    The 6.9 billion dlr budget, which represents an increase of18 pct over last year's 5.8 billion, will be financed byborrowing of 8.868 billion dlrs and estmated revenue of 1.385billion.    Seaga said 1.835 billion of the budget will go to finance agovernment capital investment program. The plan, whichrepresents a 10.3 pct increase over last year, projects greaterspending on health, education, housing and infrastructure. Some818 mln dlrs in revenue to finance the budget will come fromthe government's divestment program, which seaga said will bestepped up in 1987. Reuter
FRANCE REVISES 1986 GDP GROWTH FROM TWO TO 1.9 PCT France's National Statistics Institute(INSEE) said French 1986 Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew by1.9 pct, after Finance Minister Edouard Balladur reported a1986 rise of just two pct in February.    France's balance of payments surplus in goods and servicesrose to 53 billion francs in 1986 against 28 billion in 1985.    The annual average monthly rise in retail prices was 2.7pct in 1986 from 1985, INSEE added. REUTER
ALGERIAN MINISTER RULES OUT DEBT RESCHEDULING Algeria's Finance Minister AbdelazizKhelaf said no rescheduling of his country's foreign debt isenvisaged.    Khelaf, who came to Geneva for a meeting organised by theWorld Economic Forum, told Reuters Algerian debt amounted toabout one third of the country's Gross National Product of 55billion dlrs.    France and Algeria yesterday finalised two agreementsgiving Algeria a total 580 mln dlrs in credits to finance tradeand projects. REUTER
ALGERIAN MINISTER RULES OUT DEBT RESCHEDULING Algeria's Finance Minister AbdelazizKhelaf said no rescheduling of his country's foreign debt isenvisaged.    Khelaf, who came to Geneva for a meeting organised by theWord Economic Forum, told Reuters Algerian debt amounted toabout one third of the country's Gross National Product of 55billion dlrs.    France and Algeria yesterday finalised two agreementsgiving Algeria a total 580 mln dlrs in credits to finance tradeand projects. Reuter
BARCLAYS SAYS PROSPECTS BRIGHT FOR UK ECONOMY Britain can look forward to fairlystrong economic growth, falling interest rates and firmSterling, Barclays Bank Plc chairman-elect John Quinton said.    "We should see a reasonable decline in interest rates inthe next few months, but not a great one and not a rapid one,"Quinton told a press luncheon.    He said that whereas the British economy is growing atabout three pct, he expects only "minor" growth for the westernindustrialized world as a whole. But, unless there is a majormove toward protectionism, there should be no need to worryabout a recession in the next two or three years.    Quinton said much will depend on the resolution of tradedisputed between the United States and Japan.    He said Tokyo, in resisting the appreciation of the yen,had been "holding back the laws of economics." But if thedollar has to fall further to reduce Japan's trade surplus, hesaid he hoped the fall would be slow rather than rapid.    Quinton said it will be difficult for the City of London tostave off the creation of a powerful securities industryregulatory body along the lines of the Securities and ExchangeCommission in the U.S., especially if there are more insidertrading scandals and if the Labour Party wins the next U.K.election. Reuter
OECD WARNS SWEDEN ON LABOUR COSTS High labour costs and slower corporateinvestment could hinder Sweden's economic growth after 1987,the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development,OECD, said.    The Swedish economy grew at a slower rate in 1986 than inprevious years. GDP rose about 1.7 pct in 1986 compared with2.2 pct in 1985. But this growth depended largely on externalfactors, particularly lower oil prices, the OECD secretariatsaid in its latest annual report on Sweden.    It warned that labour costs had risen more rapidly inSweden than in other OECD countries.    Because of high labour costs Swedish industry, whichlargely relies upon export markets, was losing market share.Wages in the manufacturing sector grew by seven pct in 1986, inline with 1985 increases, while public sector wages rose anestimated 9.2 pct in 1986, up from six pct in 1985.    This was significantly higher than average wage increasesof 3.75 pct for the seven largest members of the OECD in 1986.    The report said wage moderation was central to maintainingeconomic growth in Sweden. It suggested that wage negotiationsshould be at least partly centralised to control the totalwages bill and hold down inflation and unemployment levels.    Helped by low oil prices and the government's tight fiscalpolicy, inflation fell to just over three pct in 1986 fromalmost six pct in 1985 but remained higher than in most otherOECD countries, the report said.    Unemployment, a principal policy target, was at 2.7 pct in1986, in line with 1985's 2.8 pct and well below the OECDaverage of 8.6 pct. The report said Sweden's employmentpolicies accounted for the high levels of wage inflation.    It also said that economic growth in 1986 reliedincreasingly on private consumption because corporateinvestment in machinery and equipment had shrunk.    The total volume of industrial investments dropped by twopct in 1986, with sharp declines in spending by the wood, pulpand paper industries. This compared to a 19 pct rise in 1985when there was heavy investment in these industries.    The OECD said Sweden should now make an effort to boostcorporate investments and reduce its dependence on domesticconsumption for economic growth. It suggested there was roomfor reform in the tax system.    Sweden should continue to cut public sector spending,especially in local government, to keep in line with itstighter fiscal policy, the report said. REUTER
ECUADOR ECONOMY SEEN CONTRACTING IN 1987 The Ecuadorean economy, struck by anearthquake last month, will contract an estimated four pct in1987 and its crude oil output will drop by 42 pct, thegovernment's national development council (Conade) said.    A Conade report, dated April 21 and obtained, said that thecountry's gross domestic product (gdp) would fall by anestimated four pct compared to 1.5 pct growth last year. Conadefunctions as the country's main planning institution.    Crude output will fall to 61.2 mln barrels in 1987 from105.6 mln in 1986, Conade said. It forecast exports of 22.9 mlnof crude and derivatives against 63.3 mln last year.    The March five earthquake killed up to 1,000 people andcaused an estimated one billion dlrs in damage. It paralyzedEcuador's crude output because it ruptured the country's mainpipeline from Lago Agrio, at the heart of jungle oilfields, tothe Pacific Ocean port of Balao.    It will take until at least end-July to repair the line andreturn output to normal levels, oil officials said. Ecuadoroutput was about 250,000 barrels per day before the tremor.    Conade forecast total 1987 exports of 1.77 billion dlrs,572 mln dlrs of which would be oil and derivatives.    Imports were forecast at 1.70 billion dlrs. Total 1986exports were 2.18 billion dlrs, of which 979 mln dlrs werecrude and derivatives, with total imports 1.66 billion dlrs.    Conade predicted that payments on Ecuador's 8.16 billiondlrs foreign debt will be limited to 947 mln dlrs this yearagainst 1.489 billion dlrs last year. Conade's projectedceiling on payments is not legally binding.    The current account balance of payments deficit was seen at934 mln dlrs in 1987. It was 696 mln dlrs in 1986. Reuter
EC MINISTERS LIKELY TO CRITICISE FINANCE IDEAS Plans for a new-style EuropeanCommunity (EC) free of damaging budget wrangles receive theirfirst full review from EC foreign ministers today, but areunlikely to gather much support.    Diplomats said key EC capitals would voice strong criticismof proposals that would lead to a sharp increase in EC budgetpayments by bringing member states" contributions more into linewith national wealth.    They said the EC"s current paymasters, Britain, France, andWest Germany, would lead the opposition to the plans, designedto enable the community meet the challenges of the 1990s.    Faced with a budget deficit this year of at least fivebillion dlrs, EC Commission President Jacques Delors called inFebruary for a radical overhaul of the EC financing system.    Such action was necessary, he argued, to end a damagingcycle of annual budget crises and ensure cash for technologicalresearch programs and regional and social spending projects.    Ironically, diplomats said, the move could spark exactlythe type of row it was intended to avoid with industriallydeveloped northern states demanding assurances the new cashwould not be swallowed up by the poorer southern members.    Delors" plans, by linking a country"s contributions to itsGross National Product (GNP), would over the next five yearsadd some 18 billion dlrs to the present budget of 34 billion.    Currently, contributions are calculated on a percentage ofValue Added Tax (VAT) returns.    Under the new scheme, all countries would pay one pct oftheir VAT receipts to Brussels. Extra cash would then be raisedin line with needs by a levy on the difference between acountry"s total VAT receipts and its GNP.    London is one of the most resolutely opposed countries tothe scheme, arguing instead that money should be made availablefrom deep cutbacks in the EC"s heavily-subsidised farm sector.    Unofficially many EC capitals secretly support thewearisome budget wrangling, taking the line that the highlydiverse 12-nation Community can only take tough decisions whenforced to do so.    The issue is further complicated by a possible generalelection in Britain and acceptance that the EC problems cannotseriously be addressed by London until those polls are out ofthe way. REUTER
MALAYSIA MAY CUT BASE LENDING RATE IN JUNE Malaysia may cut its base lendingrate by 0.75 to one percentage point from a current 8.5 pct inJune to stimulate economic growth, Finance Minister DaimZainuddin said.    The last cut, of 0.5 pct, was effected by banks and financecompanies on April 1 following a Central Bank directive.    The lending rate has been declining in recent monthsbecause the Central Bank has injected more funds into theeconomy, Daim told an assembly of the dominant Malay-basedUnited Malays National Organisation party.    Daim, who is also the party's Treasurer General, saidMalaysia's gross domestic product growth in 1987 is likely toexceed the one pct forecast in his 1987 budget presented lastyear. He gave no details of the expected rise.    GDP growth in 1986 was 0.5 pct. REUTER
ROYAL BANK SEES CANADIAN ECONOMY EASING Canadian gross domestic product shouldgrow at a real rate of 3.3 pct this year before easing to a 3.0pct growth rate next year when U.S. economic growth is expectedto decline, Royal Bank of Canada, Canada's largest bank, saidin its monthly economic forecast.    The forecast is from fourth quarter to fourth quarter. Thebank did not give Canada's real rate of growth for 1986. Thebank said it expects the Canadian dollar to remain at the 75U.S. ct level for the next few months as major economicfundamentals have not improved enough to return the currency toa higher level in the absence of a wider interest rate spread. Reuter
SRI LANKAN MINISTER SEES SLOWEST GROWTH IN DECADE Civil strife in Sri Lanka willmake the economy's growth rate in 1987 its slowest in a decade,Sri Lankan finance minister Ronnie de Mel said here.    He told Reuters in an interview that he expected grossdomestic product to expand by only four pct in 1987. He said itaveraged five pct over the past three years.    For the first two years after the present troubles began in1983, production of key commodities like tea, rubber, coconutsand rice kept up, he said.    Tamils on the island are fighting for a seperate state.    De Mel said: "Private sector production in fact grew by 25pct in 1984 and 20 pct in 1985. But last year things took aturn for the worse."    He said prices of tea, the main export, fell to half their1984 levels. World prices of rubber and copra also fell.    "There was also a decline in income from tourism andremittances from Sri Lankans working in the Middle East."    He said any savings from the worldwide drop in crude oilprices were wiped out by the cut in commodity earnings.    "To add to all this we have had, between January and Marchthis year, the worst drought I have seen in my life," he said.    De Mel said the drought would seriously affect agriculturalproduction.    He said because of the fighting in the country, defenceexpenditure was now about 20 pct of the national 1987 budget of70 billion rupees.    Sri Lanka planned to borrow about 600 mln dlrs in 1987 fromthe World Bank and the Sri Lanka Aid Consortium which comprisesmembers of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation andDevelopment (OECD), he said.    "We also plan to ask the International Monetary Fund foranother 200 mln dlrs through a structural adjustment facilityand a compensatory financing facility to balance our exportrevenue cuts," de Mel said.    He said despite the unrest, Sri Lanka had succeeded inkeeping its total foreign debt to three billion dlrs byavoiding borrowing from commercial banks.    "Commercial bank debt accounts for only 15 pct of our totalforeign debt," he said.    He said the Mahaweli hydro-electric project was nearingcompletion. It was likely to cut dependence on oil imports.    "The project will more than treble our hydro-electric powerfrom 300 megawatts to nearly 1,000 megawatts," de Mel said.    He said 20 new townships would rise around the project,which is in the north-central part of the island. It wasexpected to irrigate 1.2 mln acres of land and indirectlyprovide employment for 500,000 landless families.    De Mel said Tamil guerrillas were waging a war of attritionin the island's north and east. REUTER
THAI ECONOMY TO ACHIEVE FIVE PCT GROWTH THIS YEAR Thailand's gross domestic product willexpand five pct this calendar year, up from 3.8 pct in 1986,despite a projected slight decline in agricultural output dueto drought, the Bank of Thailand said.    Central bank spokesman Siri Karncharoendi told reportersthe Thai economy clearly recovered in the first quarter fromthe lingering effects of the 1984-85 recession.    He said the industrial sector is expected to expand 5.5 pctthis year, up from five pct in 1986. Agricultural output isprojected to grow 2.8 pct after 1.5 pct contraction in 1986.    He said January/March imports grew 19.2 pct to 70.7 billionbaht, in response to an improving domestic market, comparedwith a nine pct decline to 59.3 billion a year ago. Non-oilimports grew 24.8 pct to 60.2 billion baht while oil importsdeclined 5.6 pct to 10.5 billion.    First quarter exports increased 12.7 pct to 63.2 billionbaht compared with 14.4 pct and 56.1 billion a year ago.    Siri said he expects the trade deficit to widen to about 30billion baht this year from 17.4 billion in 1986. The currentaccount, which last year posted a surplus of 3.5 billion baht,is projected to return to a 7.4 billion deficit in 1987.    He said overall January/March lending by the Thai bankingsystem grew a strong nine pct to 577.9 billion baht, up from4.7 pct growth in the previous quarter and 5.8 pct for thewhole of 1986.    He said the Thai consumer price index rose 1.8 pct in thefirst quarter, down from 2.3 pct a year ago, but added thatwith the economy picking up, inflation is expected to rise to2.5 pct this year from 1.9 pct for the whole 1986. REUTER
U.S. INDEX SAID CONSISTENT WITH GROWTH FORECAST Robert Ortner, under secretary ofcommerce, said last month's 0.4 pct rise in the Index ofLeading Indicators was consistent with growth of 3.0 pct thisyear.    He said in a statement that stock prices accounted for alarge share of the index's growth in the last six months.    "Excluding stock prices, the rate of increase was still ahealthy 6.2 pct and is consistent with 3.0 pct or more overalleconomic growth during 1987," he said. Reuter
U.S. MARCH LEADING INDEX SIGNALS MODEST GROWTH A 0.4 pct rise in the March U.S. indexof leading indicators points to continued moderate U.S. realeconomic growth, economists said.    "The report is consistent with a modestly growing economy,"said Steve Slifer of Lehman Government Securities Inc. "Theeconomy is not robust, but we're not heading into a recessioneither."    "The report suggests more of the same: continued moderategrowth," said Ward McCarthy of Merrill Lynch Government and CoInc. "The gain was mostly in stock prices. There was no changein the fundamental movement of the economy."    The Commerce Department said that higher stock prices ledthe March gain. Unemployment claims, vendor performance,contracts and orders for plant and equipment, manufacturers'orders, and building permits also were positive.    The average workweek, raw materials prices, and moneysupply detracted from the index.    Economists noted that the index signals the direction butnot the magnitude of changes in gross national product.    "You can't derive profound conclusions on the economy fromthe report," McCarthy said. "The link between leadingindicators and the economy is not strong." Reuter
U.K. ECONOMY STRONGER THAN AT BUDGET, LAWSON SAYS The U.K. Economy looks stronger than itdid only last month, when the government unveiled its budgetfor fiscal 1987/88, Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawsonsaid.    He told Parliament that "all the indicators that have beenpublished since the budget confirm that, if anything, we aredoing even better than I suggested then." The budget wasunveiled on March 17.    "The PSBR (Public Sector Borrowing Requirement) has come outlower than I forecast in the Budget. Inflation, too, is lowerthan I suggested ... (and) the current account of the balanceof payments is also performing better, so far, than Ipredicted."    The budget foresaw inflation easing to 4.0 pct at the endof this year after peaking at around 4.5 pct. Lawson said atthe time that the overall 1986/87 PSBR would be around 4.0billion stg. It was in fact lower, at 3.3 billion stg.    He had also projected average GDP growth in calendar 1987of 3.0 pct after 2.5 pct in 1986. Lawson today said "outputappears to be rising, if anything, rather faster."    Speaking during a House of Commons debate, he said, "by theend of this year we will have registered the longest period ofsteady growth, at close to 3.0 pct a year, that the Britisheconomy has known since the (Second World) War."    The 1987/88 budget contained a proposal to cut the basicrate of taxation by two pence, to 27 pence in the pound.    Lawson today reaffirmed that the government aimed tofurther cut the standard rate to "no more than 25p." He said thatthat objective "should not take too long to achieve."    Turning to policies proposed by political oppositionparties, Lawson said those advocated by the Labour Party wouldentail extra public expenditure of some 34 billion stg.    That, he said, "would require either a doubling of the basicrates of income tax or more than trebling the standard rate of(valued added tax) VAT," which is currently 15 pct.    On value added tax, Lawson noted that the Conservativegovernment promised back in 1984 not to extend VAT to food.    "Beyond that, the incidence of taxation has to be determinedin the light of the budgetary needs at the time, and noresponsible government could conceivably take any otherposition," he said. Labour MPs have accused the Conservatives ofplanning VAT increases for some essential consumer goods.    Lawson reiterated his belief that reductions in taxationcan often produce higher, not lower, revenues  "thus leading tothe scope for still further reductions in taxation."    Lawson said "inheritance tax is expected this year to yieldalmost 50 pct more in real terms than Capital Transfer Tax didin 1978-79. The yield of Capital Gains Tax is forecast to be 80pct higher in real terms, and Stamp Duty up by 140 pct."    He said that "the greatly increased yield of CorporationTax, reflecting greatly increased company profitability, isclearly connected with the reform of Corporation Taxation Iintroduced in 1984, which brought the rate of tax on companyprofits in this country to the lowest in the industrialisedworld." REUTER
ECONOMIST SEES SLOWDOWN IN U.S. ECONOMIC GROWTH The U.S. Economy has peaked and will slowto a growth rate of between 2.5 pct and three pct for theremainder of 1987, First Boston Corp Managing Director AlbertWojnilower said.    He told an investment conference the U.S. Economy will notbe able to sustain the 4.3 pct growth rate recorded in firstquarter gross national product.    He said continued intermittent attacks on the U.S. Currencycould lead to a substantial rise in long term interest rates.However, he predicted that rates will eventually decline eitherin anticipation of a recession or because of one.  REUTER
CENTRAL BANK HEAD SAYS PHILIPPINE GROWTH ON TARGET The Philippines' first quarter growthfigures released yesterday indicated the government was likelyto achieve its 1987 targets, Central Bank governor JoseFernandez said in an interview.    The National Economic Development Authority (NEDA)announced yesterday gross domestic product (GDP) grew 5.78 pctand gross national product (GNP) 5.53 pct in the first quarterfrom a year earlier.    "I don't see anything on the horizon that should cut it(growth) short," Fernandez said.     NEDA said GNP had grown 3.56 pct and GDP 3.25 pct in thefourth quarter of 1986 from a year earlier. Last year's GNPgrowth, put earlier at 0.13 pct, was revised to 1.51 pct.    "Certainly I do not see any shortage in external resourcesand if GNP growth continues at this level I would assume thatdomestic resources on the fiscal side would be generated andwould not be a stumbling block," Fernandez said.    "I think even before the figures came out, simply looking atkey indicators, such as consumption of fuel oil and power,showed that the economy was on a different track from lastyear," he said.    Fernandez said consumption tended to be heavier in thefirst and second quarters because of the dry weather, and itcould drop off in the third quarter.    He said the most significant sign of recovery lay in themanufacturing sector, which grew by 9.64 pct, after declines in1985 and a slow turnaround in the second half of 1986.    "That is not a seasonal thing, it is secular," he said.    He said the government had met all monetary targets set forthe first quarter in consultation with the InternationalMonetary Fund (IMF). It expected to draw down the fourthtranche from its 198 mln SDR stand-by arrangement soon.    The Philippines has so far drawn three tranches totalling58 mln SDRs from the arrangement expiring on April 23, 1988.Fernandez said an IMF mission would visit here in July orAugust to review performance in the January-June period.    He said IMF repayments were projected to total 1.56 billiondlrs over the 1987-92 period and drawings only 236 mln dlrs.Repayments were inevitable and many countries would find theirnet repayments to the IMF rising in the next few years.    "It means that since there will be a net drain on ODA(official development assistance) accounts the commercialbanking system will be requested to hold the line," he said.    It is an internal constraint that exists because the IMFdebt cannot be rescheduled, Fernandez said.    The Philippines rescheduled 10.3 billion dlrs of its 28billion dlr foreign commercial debt in March.    Fernandez said Central Bank bills, introduced in March 1984to mop up excess liquidity, had peaked at 43.1 billion pesos inApril 1986. But their unwinding on maturity dates, started inOctober last year, had almost been completed.    He said auctions of treasury bills, whose outstanding leveltouched 95.44 billion pesos on May 20, were going well."Treasury bills will remain a basic monetary tool," he said.    Commenting on the country's foreign debt Fernandez said, "Ithink the Philippine debt stock looms large because our ownreceipts from exports have not taken the same kind of leapforward as might have been suitable."    The foreign debt is projected by the Central Bank to reach29.04 billion dlrs by the end of 1987.    NEDA said exports totalled 1.2 billion dlrs in the firstquarter, while imports were 1.4 billion dlrs.    Fernandez said the government had targeted GNP growth ofbetween six and 6.5 pct this year. He cautioned that whilegrowth so far was high the targets had not yet been achieved.    Fernandez said he saw no merit in arguments by someeconomists that the peso, currently pegged at 20.50 to thedollar, ought to be devalued to make the country's exports morecompetitive.    "By being pegged to the dollar on a basket basis the pesohas already substantially devalued against all of the country'strading partners," he said.    On the proposed Omnibus Investment Code, he said he wasopposed to a clause which would allow the unrestrictedrepatriation abroad of investments made during the first twoyears after the imposition of the Code.    The imposition of the Code, scheduled for last January, hasbeen delayed by objections from some business groups.    "I think any central bank, certainly this one after theevents of the past two or two and a half years, has to beprudent. This is not the time to throw all caution to the windsand I'm not about to do that," Fernandez said.    "It would be ideal if we reach a point where movement ofcapital and earnings can be free," he said.    "We have had one year of reasonably good results. Certainlywe continue to have a fairly heavy drain on our externalavailabilities simply by servicing our debts." REUTER
GERMAN GNP FIGURES PUBLICATION DELAYED Figures for first quarter 1987 WestGerman GNP will be published on June 11 after they wereprovisionally scheduled for June 4, an official at the FederalStatistics Office said.    The official said there had been a delay in gatheringinformation for the data, which are expected to show that theWest German economy contracted in the period.    A spokesman for the Economics Ministry in Bonn said therewas no political motivation behind publishing the figures onJune 11, the day after the Venice economic summit ends.    "There is no political motivation. It is a purely technicalmatter," he added.    The West German government is expected to come underpressure in Venice from both the U.S. And its European partnersto stimulate domestic demand as a way of reducing internationaltrade imbalances and contributing to world economic growth.    However, government officials have ruled out any furthertax reduction packages to supplement a major program ofstimulatory fiscal measures already underway.    Helmut Schlesinger, vice-president of the West Germancentral bank, the Bundesbank, said in Tokyo today that GNP, thewidest measure of a country's economic activity, fell in realterms by a seasonally adjusted 1/2 to one pct in the firstquarter compared with the fourth 1986 period.     The government has confirmed that growth was negative inthe first 1987 quarter. But year-on-year growth is expected tobe about two pct.    Schlesinger today repeated the Bundesbank's reluctance tocut its official interest rates further. Its key discount rate,at three pct, is just above historical lows.    West German officials are likely to emphasise at the Venicesummit that domestic demand, which draws in goods from abroad,is already outstripping export performance, which has sufferedfrom an 80 pct rise of the mark against the dollar in just overtwo years.    The government has pointed out that depressed exports arethe main reason for the current weakness in the economy, butsays that later in the year stronger domestic demand willcompensate for this setback.    It expects GNP growth for the whole of 1987 of just undertwo pct, after a 2.4 pct rise in 1986. REUTER
S.AFRICA EXPECTED TO UNVEIL EXPANSIONARY BUDGET South Africa is expected to unveiltomorrow an expansionary budget for the second consecutive yearin a bid to boost the nation's flagging economic growth rate,economic analysts said.    Faced with competing demands for increased military andpolice spending and the pressing need for more funds for blackhousing and education, Finance Minister Barend Du Plessis isexpected to raise significantly the government's overallexpenditure targets when he presents the budget to parliament,the analysts said.    Analysts expect Du Plessis to provide for a rise in statespending at least equal to the 16 pct inflation rate for thefinancial year that started on April 1, while ignoring pleasfrom the private sector to stimulate growth by cutting taxes.    "Fiscal policy has become gradually more expansionary, butsimply raising government spending and increasing the budgetdeficit is an inflationary form of stimulation," said Rob Lee,chief economist at South African Mutual Life Assurance Co.    South Africa this year is targeting inflation-adjustedgrowth in GDP of three pct against an increase last year ofless than one pct.    Growth in GDP over the past decade has averaged about 1.5pct, while the unemployment rate among blacks has spiralled toover 30 pct.    Economists estimate that the government's spending targetwill rise to about 47 billion rand, with revenue budgeted ataround 40 billion rand. This would leave a budget deficitbefore borrowing of about seven billion rand, or four pct ofGDP.    The government, having consistently overshot its ownspending targets for more than a decade, also faces acredibility crisis over expenditure figures outlined in thebudget, analysts said.    "The budget is invariably too optimistic on expenditure,"said Standard Bank Ltd in a budget preview.    Many analysts in the private sector are now paying lessattention to the figures presented in the budget and are usingtheir own estimates of expenditure to draw conclusions for themoney and capital markets.    South African Mutual's Lee believes government spendingwill again exceed the budget target and increase to around 49billion rand this year, leaving a deficit of between 5 and 5.5pct of GDP, compared with a three pct limit suggested by theIMF.    "The IMF limit is obviously going to be abandoned," predictedone analyst, noting that South Africa has moved steadily awayfrom austerity measures recommended by the IMF over the pasttwo years.    The policy shift followed a dramatic deterioration in thepolitical situation and the onset of an economic crisistriggered by the refusal of major foreign banks to roll overloans to the country in September 1985.    Against a background of Western economic sanctions, fallingper capita incomes, rising joblessness and high inflation,government officials say economic growth is the primeobjective.    But private-sector economists caution that the government'sability to promote growth by boosting state spending isconstrained by the need to maintain a large surplus on thecurrent account of the country's balance of payments.    Most of that surplus, this year estimated at around 2.5billion dlrs, will be swallowed up by repayments on thenation's estimated 23 billion dlr foreign debt in terms of anarrangement reached earlier this year with major internationalcreditor banks.    Within these constraints, economists believe Du Plessis haslittle room to manoeuvre.    Analysts argue recent rises in civil service salaries andbudgeted spending increases for the state-owned Post Office andSouth African Transport Services suggest that major taxconcessions to individuals or corporations are unlikely.    Du Plessis earlier this year announced small concessionsfor taxpayers in a mini-budget before the May 6 whites-onlyelection. The poll delayed presentation of the national budget.    "This will not be a very exciting budget," commented HarrySchwarz, spokesman on finance for the liberal ProgressiveFederal Party. "I do not expect any major tax cuts as all thesweets were given out before the election." REUTER
PAKISTAN SAYS GOOD ECONOMIC GROWTH CONTINUES Pakistan says its economy has continuedits recent outstanding performance during the financial year1986/87 ending on June 30 but areas like balance of payments,investments and energy were causing concern.    GDP grew in line with the average growth rate since 1980and the inflation rate was the lowest since 1969/70, accordingto a government economic survey.     The reform of economic regulation had gathered momentumand there was an impressive performance in a five pointgovernment program for rural uplift, education and povertyalleviation, said the survey.    Ministry Economic Adviser Qazi Alimullah told a newsconference that before recent unseasonal rains and hailstormsdamaged the wheat crop, GDP growth was calculated at 7.04 pctcompared to 7.25 pct in 1985/86.He said the figure might nowslide down a little to around 6.8 or 6.9 pct.    The survey said monetary expansion was estimated to be ninepct to date but might rise to around 12 pct by the year-end.    Alimullah said exports rose 18 pct to 3.5 billion dlrs from2.9 billion dlrs in 1985/86. But the at the same time, homeremittances by Pakistanis abroad dropped to 2.3 billion dlrsfrom the 1985/86 level of 2.595 billion.    More exports and an improvement in the balance of paymentssituation will be required to overcome this declining trend inhome remittances, he said.    The survey said the trade deficit was expected to fall to2.4 billion dlrs from three billion dlrs in 1985/86 because ofthe boost in exports.    He said national investment continued to be small becauseof a poor rate of savings, about 14 pct of GDP. He said moresavings were required to maintain or possibly step up thepresent growth rate and to finance the country's seventhfive-year development plan to be launched in July 1988. REUTER
GERMAN EXPERTS SAY NO FURTHER ECONOMIC STIMULUS The West German government's independentcouncil of economic experts believes a further stimulation ofthe economy is inappropriate, government spokesman FriedhelmOst said.    A statement released by Ost after a meeting of ChancellorHelmut Kohl and senior government officials with the councilsaid the experts believed 1987 ecomomic growth of 1-1/2 to twopct was achievable.    It added the council believed "an intensification of thealready expansionary stimulation of monetary and financialpolicy is not called for."    Ost's statement said experts believed further pressure onWest Germany to adapt to external economic factors would notincrease.    The government regularly uses the term "changed externaleconomic factors" when referring to the fall of the dollar,which has severely damaged West German exports. Bonn officialshave said they expect exports to pick up during the year, butcould still fall below the 1986 level.    Along with other leading industrial countries, West Germanyagreed to a package of measures at a meeting in Paris inFebruary aimed at stemming the fall of the dollar.    The stance taken by the experts backs up the officialposition of the West German government ahead of next week'sseven nation summit in Venice, where Bonn is expected to bepressed by the U.S. And other partners to boost its economy.    West German government officials have stressed Bonn is notin a position to stimulate growth further since tax cuts duenext year and 1990 are already stretching the budget.    The Bundesbank has also ruled out a quick cut in officialinterest rates although it sees market rates continuing low.    The experts' prediction for economic growth this year ofbetween 1-1/2 and two pct is a slight downward revision from aforecast made last November when two pct growth was forecast.    Many independent forecasters have revised down 1987predictions in light of the downturn in exports. The governmentitself has said it expects growth of just under two pct,compared with a 2.4 pct expansion in 1986. REUTER
MIYAZAWA SAYS JAPANESE ECONOMY BOTTOMED OUT The Japanese economy has bottomed outafter an extended period of stagnation, Finance Minister KiichiMiyazawa told a press conference.    But he said he was not too optimistic about the state ofthe economy as the employment situation was still shaky incertain regions of the country.    Yesterday, the Finance Ministry said its quarterlycorporate survey showed that the economy was showing increasingsigns of recovery. REUTER
JAPAN GNP RISES 1.2 PCT IN JANUARY/MARCH Japan's gross national product (gnp) rosea real 1.2 pct in the January/March quarter after a downwardlyrevised 0.7 pct increase in the previous three months, theEconomic Planning Agency said.    The October/December rise was originally put at 0.8 pct.    For the fiscal year ended last March 31, gnp rose 2.6 pct,after a 4.3 pct increase in 1985/86. Last year's performancewas the worst since 1974/75, when gnp contracted by 0.4 pct,and was below the government's revised three pct forecast.    Economists said the strong yen was largely to blame for theslowdown in economic growth in 1986/87.    Domestic demand increased 0.7 pct in the January/Marchquarter and 4.3 pct in the fiscal year, compared with growth of0.6 pct in October/December and 3.7 pct in 1985/86.    The annualized growth rate in the January/March quarteraccelerated to 4.9 pct, from 2.9 pct in October/December.    In nominal terms, gnp rose 0.7 pct in January/March, aftera 0.5 pct October/December rise, reflecting lower prices.    Domestic demand contributed 0.7 percentage point to realgnp growth in January/March, while foreign trade added 0.5point. In October/December domestic demand contributed 0.6point, while foreign trade added 0.2 point.    Of the 0.5 point contribution of foreign trade to gnp lastquarter, rising exports accounted for 0.3 point and fallingimports contributed 0.2.    Total export volume rose 2.0 pct quarter-on-quarter inJanuary/March, while imports fell 1.2 pct.    Of the 0.7 point contribution of domestic demand toJanuary/March gnp growth, the private sector accounted for 1.1point while the public sector knocked off 0.4.    The private sector contribution included 0.4 point forcorporate capital outlays and 1.0 for consumer spending, whiledestocking subtracted 0.3 point.    In 1986/87, domestic demand contributed 4.1 percentagepoints to growth while foreign trade knocked off 1.5 points.    In 1985/86, the domestic demand contribution was 3.6 pointsand foreign trade 0.7 point. REUTER
JAPAN OFFICIALS SAY WORST MAY BE OVER FOR ECONOMY Government officials said the worst may beover for the Japanese economy, after today's news of strongerthan expected growth in the January/March period.    But private economists were not so sure and said theeconomy was unlikely to achieve the government's 3.5 pct growthforecast in the current fiscal year ending next March.    As already reported, GNP rose 1.2 pct in the January/Marchquarter, after a revised 0.7 pct increase in the previous threemonths. For the fiscal year that ended last March 31, GNPgrowth slowed to 2.6 pct from 4.3 pct in 1985/86.    The government economists acknowledged that the improvedexport performance in the January/March quarter was unlikely tobe repeated. The volume of exports during the period was up twopct from the previous three months.    The yen's rise in April to about 140 to the dollar from 150probably resulted in a fall in exports in the April/Junequarter, they said.    However, given the yen's recent stability, stepped-updomestic demand should work as a driving force to push theeconomy onto a path of sustainable growth, they said.    Many private economists, though, doubt that the economywill achieve the government's 3.5 pct growth forecast for the1987/88 year.    Growth in 1986/87 also fell short of the government'sforecast, which was revised downwards to three pct lastDecember from an original four pct.    Domestic demand as a whole is not strong enough, except forhousing, said Johsen Takahashi, chief economist at MitsubishiResearch Institute.    Consumer spending is likely to remain weak as the growth innominal income stays low, he added.     The rise in consumer spending in the January-March quarterwas simply a reflection of the contraction that occurred in thepreceding three months, Takahashi said.    Private capital spending in the quarter looked strong butthis was primarily because utility companies brought forwardtheir 1987/88 capital investment plans into the final quarterof 1986/87 in line with the government's economic stimulationpackage announced last fall, he said.    Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank chief economist Kosaku Furuta said hewas unable to say the economy has bottomed out, but added heexpects increasing signs of recovery in the coming months.    Destocking is coming to an end and companies are startingto rebuild inventories, Furuta said.    Housing is expected to remain buoyant, backed up by lowerinterest rates as well as government policies to stimulate thesector, he said. The government's recently unveiled 6,000billion yen economic package will also help the economy.    But he said that the economy was unlikely to achieve thegovernment's 3.5 pct forecast for 1987/88, although growthmight come close to three pct. REUTER
S.KOREA SEES GNP GROWTH MORE THAN 10 PCT THIS YEAR South Korea's gross national product (GNP)will exceed 10 pct real growth this year and the won will risefurther as long as the current account surplus continues towiden, Deputy Prime Minister Chun In-Yong told reporters.    Chung, who is also Minister of Economic Planning, said hisGNP estimate was based on the assumption that the economy willremain stable.    The official target for 1987 GNP growth is eight pct.    GNP rose 15.6 pct between the first quarters of 1987 and1986, according to provisional Bank of Korea figures.    GNP rose 12.5 pct in calendar 1986.    In the first four months of this year, the current accountswung to a surplus of 2.5 billion dlrs from a deficit of 294mln dlrs in the same 1986 period.    "What the Minister said does not imply any major economicpolicy change," a Ministry spokesman told Reuters. "But he triedto urge business circles to prepare for the forseeable economic(future) ... A high won era."    South Korean manufacturers, who have insisted the wonshould not rise more than seven pct this year, have said theyplan to ask the government to slow down its appreciationagainst the dollar.    The Bank of Korea today quoted the won unchanged at 812.05against the dollar, a 6.02 pct gain so far this year comparedwith a 3.34 pct increase for the whole of 1986.    The won strengthened by 6.60 won to the dollar in threedays earlier this month while an International Monetary Fundteam held talks here to discuss revaluation. REUTER
BANK OF AMERICA SEES SLOW U.S. CONSUMER SPENDING A trade-led boom in the U.S. isunlikely this year or next because growth in net exports willmerely offset a dramatic slowdown in consumer spending andother sectors of the economy, Bank of America said in itslatest economic report.    Although net exports will add 0.7 pct to GNP this year,after reducing it by 1.2 pct in 1986, consumer spending willcontribute 1.4 pct less to GNP than it did last year.    As a result, GNP this year is likely to expand a modest 2.5pct, the same rate as last year, according to Daniel Van Dyke,the Bank of America economist who wrote the report.    "Growth in consumer spending in the United States will dropdramatically this year because the jump in inflation will causea falloff in the growth of disposable income," Van Dyke said.    Growth in U.S. consumer spending is likely to slow to 1.8pct this year from 4.1 pct in 1986, he predicted.    The report was released before the Commerce Departmentreported today that personal income rose just 0.2 pct in May,after increasing 0.4 pct in April, and that personalconsumption expenditures had risen just 0.1 pct, compared witha 0.6 pct increase the month before.    The rising cost of energy and imports is likely to boostconsumer prices by an average of 3.7 pct this year, up from 1.9pct in 1986, Bank of America forecast.    This rise in inflation will reduce real disposable income growth to only 1.3 pct in 1987 from 2.9 pct in 1986.    As a result, Van Dyke calculated that the purchasing powerof an average family of four will increase by a modest 540 dlrsthis year compared to a surge of 1,210 dlrs during 1986.    The slowdown in income growth is likely to cause housingstarts to drop by 4.2 pct this year and a further six pct in1988 to an annual rate of 1.63 mln units.    "For the first time in several years, a recession in 1988or 1989 is more than a remote possibility," Van Dyke said.    Currently, U.S. growth is fragile and depends heavily on animprovement in trade. "However, with protectionist attitudes onthe rise in this country, this source of growth is at risk," headded. Reuter
OECD SEES GERMAN GROWTH HIT BY LOW DOMESTIC DEMAND West German economic growth will slow to1.5 pct this year from 2.4 pct in 1986 due to weak domesticdemand and tougher competition from abroad, the Organisationfor Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) said in itssemi-annual review of the world economy.    This view is less favourable than the West Germangovernment's forecast of a growth rate of under two pct thisyear, but is in line with forecasts by independent economicinstitutes of growth ranging from 1.5 to two pct.    The OECD said that the economy should pick up next year,with the gross national product rising by two pct in realterms.    The OECD said it assumed the German economy was passingthrough a period of temporary weakness and there would be somerecovery in business confidence in the near future.    But it warned that the key to an improvement in the economywas higher domestic demand, which is only forecast to rise by2.5 pct this year and 2.75 pct in 1988, below 1986's 3.7 pct.    While noting that the government is bringing forward a fivebillion mark tax reform to January 1988, the OECD said that "themedium to longer-term performance of the West German economycould be improved by reduction of subsidies - which would allowrelatively lower tax rates."    Since the OECD report was compiled, the West German FederalStatistics Office has released figures showing that the GNPactually fell 0.5 pct in real terms in the first quarter ofthis year compared with the final three months of 1986.    Diplomatic sources here said that West Germany appearedlikely to finish the year with the lowest growth rate of any ofthe Group of Seven leading industrial nations.    West Germany's current account surplus, the target ofconsiderable criticism by the Reagan administration, isexpected to rise slightly to 37 billion dlrs this year from35.8 billion in 1986, before declining to 29 billion dlrs in1988. REUTER
HIGHER GROWTH, UNEMPLOYMENT IN FRANCE, OECD SAYS France's growth rate is expected tostrengthen in the second half of this year after a poor firsthalf, but unemployment will worsen, the Organisation forEconomic Cooperation and Development (OECD) said.    In its semi-annual review of the world economy, the OECDforecast that growth in the French Gross Domestic Product (GDP)would run at about two pct in the next six months. It said therate would be in line with the 1986 trends, but significantlyhigher than in the first half of this year.    The OECD said France's economic situation has deterioratedsomewhat during the early months of 1987.     Activity has slowed, primarily reflecting an inventoryadjustment, while unemployment has risen rapidly and inflationhas reaccelerated, the OECD said. Unemployment is likely toreach 12 pct of the workforce by the end of 1988.    The report said inflation should slow and domestic demandpick up in the second half of this year. But both data arelikely to be worse than those recorded in 1986, it added.    The OECD forecast a 2.75 pct rise in consumer prices forthe second half of this year, a one pct drop from the first sixmonths. The slowdown would bring the inflation rate to 3.25 pctfor the whole year, sharply up from last year's 2.2 pct. REUTER
JAPAN TRADE SURPLUS WILL GROW AGAIN IN 1987, OECD Japan's trade surplus is likely tocontinue to grow in 1987, as sales of Japanese goods abroadincrease while domestic demand remains sluggish, theOrganization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)said.    In its latest half-yearly review of the world economy, theOECD said Japan managed to considerably reduce its surplus lastyear, when domestic demand grew by four pct in 1986 whileexport markets rose by only two pct.    But it said this differential between the growth ofdomestic and foreign demand would reverse in 1987 and 1988,"thus weakening the international adjustment process."    It forecast a slowing in domestic growth to little over twopct but with a rise in exports of 3.3 pct in 1987 and 3.6 pctin 1988. As a result, the current account surplus in 1987 willrise to 95 billion dlrs from 86 billion in 1986, although in1988 it should fall back to 87 billion dlrs.    The OECD outlook did not take account of the 6,000 billionyen package announced last month to stimulate domestic demandand increase imports to Japan. However, OECD officials said themeasures will significantly strengthen domestic demand, quitepossibly exceeding one pct GNP when the full effects haveworked through, and thus will provide some stimulus to imports.    The OECD outlook said, "Continued large current accountsurpluses and the further build-up of an already-substantialnet external asset position could well lead to upward pressureon the yen." It said that further appreciation could then leadmanufacturers to postpone their investment plans and thusweaken domestic growth.    The OECD said Japan's Gross National Product was likely togorw an annual two pct in 1987 and 1988, below 1986's 2.5 pctgrowth. But it said Japan would continue its good performanceon inflation, with a zero figure expected in 1987 compared to a0.6 pct rise in consumer prices last year. Reuter
ECONOMIC GROWTH SEEN SLUGGISH IN BENELUX COUNTRIES Economic growth will remain sluggish inthe Netherlands and Belgium next year and unemployment mayrise, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Developmentforecast.    Belgium's GDP growth may slow down to 1.5 pct this year andnext year, bringing a rise in the number of jobless, the OECDsaid in its semi-annual survey. Belgian inflation couldstabilise at 1.5 to 2.0 pct, while the current account surpluswill probably remain large at about three pct of GDP.    While the Belgian government has made progress in trimmingits borrowing requirement, "it will probably be insufficient tocheck the self-sustaining nature of the deficit," the OECD said.    In the Netherlands real GDP growth will also slip to 1.5pct this year and one pct in 1988, with Dutch exports becomingless competitive and imports rising. "Employment is forecast todecelerate as well, reflecting more sluggish growth in theprivate sector and budgetary cuts," the report said.    Dutch consumer prices are set to fall by 0.5 pct in 1987and stay stable in 1988, partly as a result of decliningdomestic gas prices.    Luxembourg's economy, by contrast, will see slightly fastergrowth in GDP this year as a result of an upward movement inwages. But real growth in consumption will ease next year.REUTER
SOUTHERN EUROPE HAS STRONG DOMESTIC DEMAND GROWTH Strong growth in domestic demand was a keyfeature of the economies of southern European countries in1986, though the growth is seen slowing this year and next, theOrganisation for Economic Cooperation and Development said.    In its semi-annual report, the OECD said Portugal's totaldomestic demand growth would decline from 7.6 pct last year tofive pct in 1987 and 3.75 pct in 1988 as slower wage growthrestrained private consumption.    Turkey's economy grew much faster than expected in 1986 anddomestic demand surged 10.5 pct, but this growth was expectedto be halved to five pct next year.    In Spain, buoyant domestic demand, led by fixed investment,had been the driving force behind rapid growth in GrossDomestic Product. Both fixed investment and private consumptionwere expected to ease during 1988 but would still remainstrong.    The OECD forecast that Spanish imports would rise sharplynext year, reflecting strong demand, entry to the EuropeanCommunity and declining competitiveness.    In Greece, inflation was forecast to turn downwardsfollowing an increase early this year linked with theintroduction of Value Added Tax and a surge in food prices dueto cold weather. REUTER
OECD SAYS HIGH WAGE DEALS HARMING NORDIC STATES High wage settlements in Nordic countriesthreaten to cut exports and reduce the internationalcompetitiveness of their industries, the Organisation forEconomic Cooperation and Development (OECD) said.    In Denmark, the OECD said wage settlements concluded inearly 1987 were likely to contribute to a marked deteriorationin competitiveness. Sweden's competitive position was also seenat risk from accelerating wages.    The OECD predicted that domestic demand would come underpressure from tight fiscal policy in Denmark, as well asNorway, Sweden and Finland.    Overall economic growth will vary in the differentcountries between 1986 and 1988, the OECD semi-annual reportsaid.    After a strong rise of 7.8 pct in 1986, total domesticdemand in Norway was seen falling by 1.5 pct in 1987 and onepct the following year. Denmark was also expected to see aslump in domestic demand. The report said growth in GrossDomestic Product (GDP) was likely to speed up slightly inSweden and Finland in 1987 and 1988, while declining in Denmarkand Norway.    Iceland needs to try harder to implement its new economicstrategy if any more progress is to be made towards sustainedand balanced non-inflationary growth, the OECD said. REUTER
OECD URGES ACTION TO CUT U.S. BUDGET DEFICIT The United States should take urgentaction to cut its crippling budget deficit, including possiblereductions in non-defense spending, higher taxes and curbs ongrowth of the defense budget, the Organization for EconomicCooperation and Development said.    The OECD, in its semi-annual review of the world economy,said a failure of the Reagan Administration and Congressquickly to agree on measures to cut the deficit "could seriouslyaffect confidence, both in the United States and elsewhere."    It predicted that the federal deficit in fiscal 1987,running until September 30 this year, would substantiallyovershoot both the Balanced Budget Act's target of 144 billiondlrs and official U.S. Estimates in February of 175 billion.    "The OECD projection, which is based on assumptions ofslower growth, higher interest rates and actual data for thefirst half of the financial year, is for a deficit of about 190billion dollars," it said.    While this would be 30 billion lower than last year'sdeficit, much of the improvement would be due to corporate taxincreases being introduced before income tax cuts take effect.    The U.S. Economic growth rate is expected to edge up to2.75 pct next year from 2.5 pct this year and last.    In contrast to the last two years, more competitive exportsboosted by the fall in the dollar should help GNP growth.    Unemployment should continue to fall slowly as the servicesector continues to create jobs. But inflation appears to beheading higher, partly due to the lower dollar, with consumerprices forecast to rise four pct this year and 4.5 pct nextyear after just 2.1 pct in 1986.    "Monetary and fiscal policy appear to be the key factorsbehind the avoidance of recession," the report said.    The current account balance of payments deficit is expectedto be still around a high 125 billion dlrs next year, afterhitting a projected record 147.25 billion this year, it said.    In Canada economic growth is expected to pick up slightlyto around 2.75 pct in 1988 from 2.5 pct this year, but willstill be below levels seen in recent years. Inflation isexpected to slow to 3.5 pct next year from 3.75 pct this year,unemployment should edge down to nine pct in 1988 from 9.25 pctthis year.    Canada's current account deficit is projected to shrink toaround four billion U.S. Dlrs this year and to remain at aboutthat level in 1988. Reuter
 OECD SEES 1.5 PCT WEST GERMAN REAL GNP GROWTH Australia's economy should manage modestgrowth over the next two years after a sharp slowdown butunemployment could still edge upwards, the Organisation forEconomic Cooperation and Development (OECD) said.    The organisation's latest half-yearly report says GrossDomestic Product will grow by 2.5 pct this year and by 2.75 pctin 1988 compared with only 1.4 pct in 1986. The growth will behelped by higher stockbuilding and stronger domestic demandfollowing tax cuts and higher real wages, it added.    The report forecasts a decline in inflation, with consumerprices increasing by 8.5 pct this year and 6.25 pct in 1988.    The current account deficit shows signs of easing slightlyand could narrow to 12 billion dlrs by the end of 1988.    While predicting slightly stronger growth than last year,however, the report revises downwards the OECD's earlier growthforecast for 1987 of 3.75 pct.    The OECD predicts a similar combination of modest economicgrowth and rising unemployment for New Zealand, which isstruggling to recover from a major economic crisis.    The country's GDP, which contracted by 0.6 pct last year,should again show growth over the next two years, rising by0.25 pct this year and a more substantial 2.75 pct in 1988. Reuter
FALL IN CANADIAN BUDGET DEFICIT TO SLOW Finance Minister Michael Wilson said taxreform will not affect his determination to reign inexpenditures, but his forecasts show a slowing of the declinein the budget deficit in the late 1980s.    "Responsible tax reform must be fiscally responsible,"Wilson said in a speech prepared for the House of Commons.    Wilson estimated the deficit will fall to 29.3 billion dlrsin the year ending March 31, 1988, the same level as heforecast in the February budget.    And in the year ended this past March, the deficit wasexpected to have been one billion dlrs lower than the 32billion dlr shortfall originally forecast, Wilson said.    Wilson said in the current 1988 fiscal yearhigher-than-anticipated spending, particularly in farm incomesupport programs, will be offset by higher-than-anticipatedrevenues.    But finance department documents show the pace of deficitreduction was expected to slow temporarily in fiscal 1989 and1990 as a result of lower oil and grain prices and thetransition to the reformed taxation system.    The deficit is expected to total 28.9 billion dlrs infiscal 1989 and 28.6 billion dlrs in 1989 and then fall to 26.1billion dlrs in 1991.    Wilson was optimistic about the outlook for the Canadianeconomy, forcasting gross domestic product would expand 2.8 pctthis year and 3.0 pct in 1988. In 1986 the economy grew by anactual 3.1 pct.    Inflation, meanwhile, is expected to stabilize at aroundthe current four pct level over the next two years. Reuter
JAPAN PANEL URGES WORLD ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENTS Japan could avoid a sharp rise in thevalue of the yen against the dollar if Japan, the U.S. Andother nations succeeded in restructuring their economies, anadvisory panel to the government's Economic Planning Agency(EPA) said.    The advisory body said in its report that the yen wouldsoar against the dollar if structural adjustments on a globalbasis were delayed.    An EPA official told Reuters the dollar could fall toslightly below 100 yen by 1993 if Japan and the U.S. Failed torestructure their economies.    The dollar's fall without structural adjustments would cutJapan's current account surplus to two pct of gross nationalproduct (GNP) in 1993, the report said. It said such a changewould slow real GNP growth to an average of two pct annuallyduring the seven-year period to 1993.    If the two nations restructured their economies, the dollarwould remain stable in real terms, while reducing Japan'scurrent-account surplus to 2.1 pct of GNP in 1993. Thisscenario put Japan's GNP growth at 3.5 pct a year.    It forecast real growth of three pct for the world economyand four pct for Japan by 2,000 if the adjustments were made. REUTER
S. AFRICAN RESERVE BANK SAYS GROWTH RATE ON TARGET South Africa recorded annualisedreal growth in GDP of 3.25 pct in the first quarter of thisyear and the economy should achieve the government's target ofthree pct growth for 1987, the Reserve Bank said.    The South African central bank said in its quarterlybulletin that confidence in the economy improved from Januaryto May 31 because of the higher gold price, a rise in thenation's gold and foreign currency reserves and an improvementin the rand's exchange rate to just under 50 U.S. Cents.    It noted the growth rate had slowed from 4.5 pct in thethird and fourth quarters of last year.    It also cited a three year debt recheduling agreementreached with international creditors in March as evidence ofimproved foreign perceptions of the South African economy.    The accord effectively extends a moratorium on mostrepayments of 13 billion dlrs of South Africa's short termforeign debt. Total foreign debt is 23 billion dlrs.    South Africa recorded a seasonally adjusted annualisedsurplus on the current account of the balance of payments of7.43 billion rand in the first quarter, compared with a surplusof 7.24 billion rand in 1986. The bank said it was the ninthconsecutive current account surplus since the start of 1985. REUTER
U.S. ECONOMY SLOWDOWN RAISES RECESSION FEARS The economy faces lackluster growthand the risk of recession this year if the recent improvementin U.S. exports should falter, economists say.    Growth will slow sharply in the next months due to weaknessin the key housing and auto sectors and could be furtherhampered unless consumer spending picks up, they say.    "These factors raise the question: Is there enough strengthto keep the economy from tipping into a recession?" said LyleGramley, chief economist of the Mortgage BankersAssociation and a former Federal Reserve Board official.    The Commerce Department said this week that the economygrew by a robust 4.8 pct annual rate in the first quarter, buta U.S. monetary official called it a weak report.    Housing starts fell 2.7 pct in May, and consumer spendingrose a weak 0.1 per cent.    "Our two largest visible industries -- autos and housing --are faltering, but exports are picking up some of the slack, "Martin Mauro, senior economist for Merrill Lynch Economics,told Reuters.    Gramley said he is worried that consumer spending may slowbecause inflation is rising faster than real wages.    To offset this, U.S. exports must continue to rise,returning enough jobs to the manufacturing sector to boostpersonal income and consumption, he says.    "I expect to see enough improvement in real net exports tokeep a recession from happening, but it is a close call,"Gramley said.    Federal Reserve Board Governor Martha Seger told reportersthat the apparent strength in the 4.8 pct growth figure was theresult of a temporary buildup in inventories that will not lastand said the recovery was showing anemia.    Seger said that with the recovery stumbling along, "The paceof the economy and the lack of robustness must be factored intomonetary policy" - possibly a signal that the Fed will beaccommodative.    Most economists predict growth slower than the 3 pctforecast by the Reagan administration for 1987 and warn that ifthe dollar drops suddenly, higher inflation will result and addto the risk of a recession.    Mauro said a 0.5 pct rise in industrial production in Maycame despite cutbacks in output in the auto industry, where aninventory overhang still exists.    He says the boost in production came from smallerindustries like paper, chemicals, and lumber which haveimproved sales overseas due to the drop in the dollar.    "They are not going to be enough for any kind of surge ineconomic activity, but I think they will keep us out of arecession," Mauro said.    In a speech to financial planners this week, BerylSprinkel, the chief White House economic adviser, predicted thetrade deficit will continue to improve.    "Prospects for continued economic growth through 1987 andinto 1988 are still quite favorable," he said.    But private economists raise concerns about a resurgence ininflation.    Allen Sinai, chief economist at Shearson Lehman BrothersInc., told Congress this week that inflation would rise to 4.5to five pct this year and stay at that level through 1989 aftera 1.1 pct increase in 1986.    The rise is coming from a sharply lower dollar, higher oiland energy prices and rising prices for services, he said.    "The lesson of history is that once the inflation genie getsout of the bottle, it continues to persist," he said, adding hewould like the Fed to tighten credit.    A major factor affecting inflation is the value of thedollar, which should continue to fall and feed inflation, saysa prominent international banker.    Rainer Gut, chairman of Credit Suisse, told the NationalPress Club that the dollar's downward trend against the yen andthe mark will continue for years because the United States isthe world's largest debtor nation.    The Swiss banker said the economic indicators point to afurther slackening of activity and called naive the belief thatthe five-year boom on world equity markets will go on forever."It is very difficult to be optimistic," Gut said. Reuter
SOVIETS OUTLINE 1988 ECONOMIC TARGETS The Soviet Union outlined its economictargets for 1988 on Monday, stressing the need to improvestandards in the country's sluggish engineering industry.    Planning chief Nikolai Talyzin told the Supreme Sovietindustrial output should rise by 4.5 pct in 1988, up from aplanned 4.4 pct in 1987. It rose 3.6 pct in Jan-Sept 1987.    Talyzin said national income, the nearest Soviet equivalentto gross national product, should rise by 4.3 pct against aplanned 4.1 pct this year. Gross national product measures theoutput of a country's goods and services.    He said the Kremlin planned to produce 235 mln tonnes ofgrain in 1988 versus a planned 232 mln this year. Moscowproduced 210 mln tonnes in 1986.    Kremlin leader Mikhail Gorbachev has describedmachine-builing as a sector whose rapid modernization isessential if the Soviet Union is to compete effectively onworld markets.    "Certain difficulties have arisen this year in themachine-building industry. The economy is not receiving aconsiderable amount of the equipment that it requires," saidTalyzin, who heads the state planning committee GOSPLAN.    Soviet data show the machine-building industry, which makesmachine tools, instruments and other engineering goods,increased output by 3.3 pct in the first nine months of 1987compared with the same period last year.    However, this was far below the 7.3 pct increase plannedfor the industry for the whole of 1988.    Talyzin said the ruling Politburo had concluded at a recentmeeting that an improvement in economic performance depended toa large extent on conserving resources better. "Large-scalemeasures are planned to save resources," he said.    Finance Minister Boris Gostev told the Supreme Soviet thatdefense spending in 1988 would total 32 billion dlrs, the samefigure as was announced last year.    Western governments view official Soviet estimates fordefense spending as highly understated, but say the real figureis hard to calculate because Soviet military industries areintertwined with the civilian economy.    Talyzin said the Kremlin also decided to increase spendingnext year on medical services, education, pensions and socialinsurance schemes. Reuter
HIGHER SPENDING EXPECTED IN MALAYSIA'S 1988 BUDGET Malaysia's recovery from the worstrecession in 20 years should receive a boost on Friday when thegovernment announces a reflationary budget for calendar 1988after seven years of austerity, economists said.    "Our country is walking on one leg now," said Ismail Salleh,an economist with the Institute of Strategic and InternationalStudies. "It has to depend on public sector investment forfaster growth if the private sector is not moving."    Gross domestic product grew one pct in 1986 after shrinkingone pct in 1985. The fiscal year ends December 31.    The government has said it expects 1987 growth to be undertwo pct but some analysts believe it will be nearer three pctbecause prices for commodity exports have risen sharply.Malaysia is a leading exporter of rubber, palm oil, tin andsemiconductors and a major producer of cocoa, timber and oil.    The government slashed development spending to 9.8 billionringgit this year from 14.5 billion in 1986.    Economists said unemployment is expected to exceed 10 pctin 1988 against about 9.5 pct this year.    Local investment also has stagnated, with businessmenblaming inconsistent economic policies and lack of incentives.    One businessman said too many politicians give theimpression that Malaysia was unstable.    "If we can take care of investment confidence, the potentialto recover strongly is great," a banker said.    Malaysia's 1987 current account is expected to be in theblack with the Central Bank projecting a 500 mln ringgitsurplus compared with last year's 1.2 billion ringgit deficit.    The government has said its fiscal policies will balancethe budget by 1989. The deficit in 1986 was 952 mln ringgit.    The government will also repay some of its external debt,which stood at 51 billion ringgit at the end of 1986.    Political leaders have said the budget will not hurtordinary people as taxes on basic food and other essentialgoods are unlikely to change.    Businessmen said they hope the government also will cut thecorporate tax, now between 45 and 48 pct, to enable Malaysia tocompete for investors with neighbouring states. REUTER
