CHINA'S HEILONGJIANG PROVINCE BOOSTS GOLD OUTPUT Gold output in the northeast Chinaprovince of Heilongjiang rose 22.7 pct in 1986 from 1985'slevel, the New China News Agency said. It gave no figures.    It said the province, China's second largest gold producerafter Shandong, plans to double gold output by 1990 from the1986 level. China does not publish gold production figures.    However, industry sources estimate output at about 65tonnes a year, with exports put between 11 and 31 tonnes.    China is selling more gold abroad to offset large tradedeficits in recent years, western diplomats said. REUTER
CURRENCIES COULD INFLUENCE BULLION AGAIN-MONTAGU Currency fluctuations may reassert theirinfluence on the bullion market in the near future, bullionbankers Samuel Montagu and Co Ltd said in a market report.    But the firm said silver may lag behind gold in anyreactions to movements on foreign exchanges.    "OPEC's failure to address the recent decline in oil pricesremains a worrying factor however, and on balance it appearsthat the market should be approached cautiously," Montagu said.    The bank said the US economy has shown no noticeablelong-term improvement and that both Latin American debt and theIranian arms affair could undermine confidence in the dollar. Reuter
LAC <LAC> INTERSECTS MORE GOLD AT DOYON MINE Lac Minerals Ltd and <Cambior Inc> saidthey completed a second hole at their jointly owned Doyon minein Quebec, which showed two significant gold intersections.    One intersection graded 0.33 ounce gold a short ton over 44feet at depth of 1,411 feet, while the other graded 0.22 ouncegold a ton over 23 feet at 2,064 feet, the companies said. Thehole is 460 feet east of the previously reported first hole.    They said they were now drilling another hole 460 feet tothe west of the first drill hole and expected to report resultsin late March or early April. Reuter
MORE GOLD DETECTED AT DOYON MINE Lac Minerals Ltd and Cambior Inc saidthey completed a second hole at their jointly owned Doyon minein Quebec, which showed two significant gold intersections.    One intersection graded 0.33 ounce gold per short ton over44 feet at depth of 1,411 feet, while the other graded 0.22ounce gold per ton over 23 feet at 2,064 feet, the companiessaid. The hole is 460 feet east of the previously reportedfirst hole.    Another hole is being drilled 460 feet to the west of thefirst drill hole and results are expected in late March orearly April. Reuter
REAGAN'S REMARKS HELP GOLD TO RECOVER IN HONG KONG Gold rose by about 50 U.S. Cents anounce, following a statement by President Ronald Reagan thatthe arms-for-hostages deal with Iran "was a mistake," dealerssaid.    Bullion rose to 409.40/90 dlrs from an initial low of408.90/409.40. This compares with the opening of 409.00/50 andNew York's close of 410.00/50.    Dealers noted mild short-covering in the metal after someinitial selling by local investors. Trading was fairly quietthis morning partly owed to the slow U.S. Dollar activities,they added.    However, Reagan's remarks had only a short-lived bullishimpact on the gold price, which is now stabilising at 409.10/60dlrs, dealers said.    On the local market, the metal traded in a narrow range of3,800 and 3,805 H.K. Dlrs a tael against yesterday's 3,778close. REUTER
BHP TO FLOAT GOLD UNIT WITH ONE-FOR-THREE ISSUE The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd <BRKN.S>(BHP) said it plans a renounceable one-for-three issue ofrights to float a new company, <BHP Gold Mines Ltd> (BHPGM),which will hold most of BHP's gold interests.    In a statement BHP said the 25-cent par rights would bepriced at 50 cents for 430 mln of the BHPGM shares on offer.BHP will subscribe for the remaining 540 mln shares, or 56 pctof issued capital, on the same terms.    BHPGM will pay 440 mln dlrs for BHP's gold interests,excluding its stake in Papua New Guinea's <Ok Tedi Mining Ltd>and those interests held by BHP's <Utah International Inc>.    The BHP statement said the issue will be made toshareholders registered on March 27. It opens April 4 andcloses April 29, and is underwritten by <J.B. Were and Son>.Rights will be traded on Australian stock exchanges from March23 to April 22, and the new shares will be quoted from June 4.    BHP said the new company will be one of Australia's largergold producers, with annual output exceeding 170,000 ounces. Itsaid there are plans to boost production to 300,000 ounces bythe early 1990s. BHPGM's portfolio will include severalAustralian mines -- 30 pct of Telfer, 100 pct of Ora Banda andBrowns Creek and 20 pct of the new Boddington development.    The statement said BHPGM would also hold BHP's 45 pct stakein the Coronation Hill Property in the Northern Territory, andits 55 pct stake in a new venture near Gympie, Queensland.    BHPGM chairman-designate John Gough said it was a qualitygold stock.    "The diversity and depth of BHP Gold's portfolio ... Givethe company a sound foundation in current gold production andan exciting potential for growth," he said. REUTER
S AFRICA MINE MANAGERS FACE CHARGES IN DISASTER Seven managers and employees atGeneral Mining Union Corp Ltd's Kinross Mines Ltd will facecharges of culpable homicide following last year's disasterwhen 177 gold miners died, the Attorney General's Office said.    The mineworkers were killed last September at Kinross whena fire set off toxic fumes which suffocated miners underground.    Three of the accused face alternative charges of breakingsafety regulations set out in the Mines and Works Act.    The spokesman said the case would probably be heard inWitbank Regional Court, near Kinross, in mid-May. Reuter
GIANT BAY <GBYLF> DETAILS GORDON LAKE DEPOSIT Giant Bay ResourcesLtd said a metallurgical study of its Gordon Lake gold depositindicated an overall recovery of 95 pct to 96 pct of the goldcan be achieved by either direct cyanidation of ore orflotation followed by cyanidation of concentrate.    Continuation of an underground program on the property willbegin in June, extending an existing drift along the200-foot-level where the main ore zone was encountered, GiantBay said.    The company did not elaborate on production figures for theproperty. Reuter
SILVER STATE MINING <SSMC> SEES PRODUCTION RISE Silver State Mining Corp said it expectsgold production this year to be more than double 1986's 17,458ounces.    The company's 1985 production was 2,050 ounces. Reuter
PIONEER GROUP <PIOG> UNIT GETS MORE LAND The Pioneer Group Inc said its 70pct-owned Teberebie Goldfields Ltd venture has been granted anadditional concession of land in Ghana to look for and minegold.    The State Gold Mining Corp of Ghana granted the venture anadditional 14.5 square kilometers in Teberebie, Ghana,contiguous to 11.5 square kilometers granted earlier, thecompany said.    The original concession appears to have a substantialamount of gold bearing material containing about 2 grams, or6/100 ounces, of gold per metric ton.    But the venture has no firm estimates on the costs ofextracting the gold and no assurances can be given that thereserves can be mined profitably, the company said.    It said Teberebie Goldfields has not conducted tests on thenewly granted land but added the land seems to be similar ingeological characteristics to the original land. Reuter
PLACER PACIFIC HOPES FOR MISIMA GOLD APPROVAL SOON <Placer Pacific Ltd> said it hopes thePapua New Guinea government will approve development of theMisima gold project next month, following the submission of itsfinal environmental plan in Port Moresby today.    This completes the major documentation required to gainofficial approval to proceed, Placer said in a statement.    Placer has estimated the epithermal deposit, located on theeastern half of Misima Island off the southeastern coast ofPapua New Guinea, contains proven and probable reserves of 62.1mln tonnes grading 1.35 grams/tonne gold and 20 grams/tonnesilver, and exploration is continuing. REUTER
CAROLIN MINES HAS NEW GOLD ASSAY RESULTS Carolin Mines Ltdsaid recent assays of tailings at its Hope, British Columbiamine ranged from 0.50 to 0.64 ounces of gold per ton.     There were only trace amounts of platinum and palladium,the company said.    Carolin said the results sharply disagreed with an earlierassay performed by Intergold U.S.A. Inc which showed 1.0 ounceof gold per ton and 0.50 ounce of platinum per ton.    Carolin also said it expects to receive results of furthertests and assays of the tailings within two to three weeks. Reuter
CAROLIN MINES <CRLNF> HAS NEW ASSAY RESULTS Carolin Mines Ltdsaid recent assays of tailings at its Hope, British Columbiamine indicated that ounces of gold per ton ranged from 0.64 to0.50.    There were only trace amounts of platinum and palladium,the company said.    Carolin said the results sharply disagreed with an earlierassay performed by Intergold U.S.A. Inc which showed one ounceof gold per ton and 1/2 ounce of platinum per ton.    Carolin also said it expects to receive results of furthertests and assays of the tailings within two to three weeks. Reuter
SIGMA MINES DETAILS GOLD ORE RESERVES <Sigma Mines (Quebec) Ltd>, 65 pctowned by Dome Mines Ltd <DM>, said its Sigma Mine had provenand probable reserves at the end of 1986 of 4,902,940 tons,with an average grade of 0.139 ounces of gold a ton.    Sigma said the reserves are equivalent to 10 years futureproduction at current milling rates.    The reserves comprise 1,640,779 tons proven reservesgrading an average of 0.163 ounces of gold a ton and 3,262,161tons probable reserves grading an average of 0.127 ounces ofgold a ton.    Sigma said it changed its 1986 reserve reporting methodfollowing Dome Mines previously reported move to adopt generalindustry practice of reporting proven and probable orereserves.    Prior to 1986, Sigma conservatively reported only provenreserves that could be mined without future development costs.    Proven reserves as of December 31, 1985 were 978,000 tonsgrading an average of 0.194 ounces of gold a ton, equivalent toabout two years future production. Reuter
SIGMA MINES DETAILS GOLD ORE RESERVES <Sigma Mines (Quebec) Ltd>, 65 pctowned by Dome Mines Ltd, said its Sigma Mine had proven andprobable reserves at the end of 1986 of 4,902,940 tons, with anaverage grade of 0.139 ounces of gold a ton.    Sigma said the reserves are equivalent to 10 years futureproduction at current milling rates.    The reserves comprise 1,640,779 tons proven reservesgrading an average of 0.163 ounces of gold a ton and 3,262,161tons probable reserves grading an average of 0.127 ounces ofgold a ton.    Sigma said it changed its 1986 reserve reporting methodfollowing Dome Mines' previously reported move to adopt generalindustry practice of reporting proven and probable orereserves.    Prior to 1986, Sigma conservatively reported only provenreserves that could be mined without future development costs.    Proven reserves as of December 31, 1985 were 978,000 tonsgrading an average of 0.194 ounces of gold a ton, equivalent toabout two years future production. Reuter
BRITAIN TO MINT NEW "BRITANNIA" GOLD COIN Britain will from next autumn mint andmarket a new bullion coin called the "Britannia" containing oneounce of 24 carat gold, together with bullion coins of smallerdenominations, a Treasury official said.    The new investment coin, to be sold worldwide, willfluctuate in price according to the international price ofgold.    The smaller coins will be in denominations of a half ounce,a quarter ounce and a tenth of an ounce. REUTER
FRANCO NEVADA SAYS STOCK RISE DUE TO DRILLING Franco Nevada Mining Corp Ltd said thegain in its stock price today is related to deep drilling beingconducted by American Barrick Resources Corp at the Goldstrikeclaims in the Carlin camp in northern Nevada.    Franco Nevada stock is up two at seven dlrs per share onthe Toronto Stock Exchange.    Franco Nevada said American Barrick announced on March ninethat the drilling indicated a number of significantintersections of sulfide gold mineralization below a depth ofabout 1,000 feet.    One vertical drill hole intersected gold continuously from1,100 feet to 1,730 feet averaging 0.30 ounces per short ton,the announcement said. Reuter
BRITAIN TO MINT NEW "BRITANNIA" GOLD COIN Britain will from next autumn mint andmarket a new bullion coin called the "Britannia" containing oneounce of 24 carat gold, together with bullion coins of smallerdenominations, a Treasury official said.    The new investment coin, to be sold worldwide, willfluctuate in price according to the international price ofgold.    The smaller coins will be in denominations of a half ounce,a quarter ounce and a tenth of an ounce. REUTER
"BRITANNIA" COIN TO SELL AT PREMIUM The new British one ounce gold coin, the"Britannia," will be priced on the basis of the gold price on theday of purchase plus a "competitive premium," Treasury officialssaid.    Value added tax will be levied on all purchases by membersof the U.K. Public, as is currently the case with foreigncoins, although transactions between members of the London GoldMarket and all exports of the coins will be zero-rated. Nodecision has yet been taken on the face value of the coins.    Although a number of gold coins, especially the CanadianMaple, have been issued elsewhere in an attempt to take theplace of the South African krugerrand, the British governmentstill feels that there is a gap in the market for a British oneounce gold coin. The only British gold coin available atpresent is the sovereign, which contains 0.2354 ounces of gold.    Gold from South Africa or the Soviet Union will not be usedin the coin, officials said, adding that bullion would bebought on the world gold market. But analysts said it would bedifficult to ascertain the origins of such purchases.    No details are yet available on how many coins will beissued or how much gold will be bought, but traders said thatthe amounts involved would be unlikely to move the gold price.    There were some enquiries on the "Britannia" from coindealers today, but value added tax would prove a major factorin the success of the coin, with the 15 pct tax likely to putoff many investors, traders said.    Some said that the "Britannia" had come too late, with theCanadian Maple Leaf, the American Eagle and other gold coinsalready well established. Reuter
JAPAN CABINET APPROVES BILL ON GOLD COIN ISSUES The cabinet has approved a bill making iteasier for the government to issue commemorative coins, aFinance Ministry official said.    The bill, which must still be approved by parliament, wouldtake effect in April 1988. It would allow the government toissue 1,000, 5,000 and 10,000 yen coins without speciallegislation, although higher-valued coins would still need aspecial law, the official said. At present it can only issuecoins of 500 yen or less. REUTER
JAPAN CABINET APPROVES BILL ON GOLD COIN ISSUES The cabinet has approved a bill making iteasier for the government to issue commemorative coins, aFinance Ministry official said.    The bill, which must still be approved by parliament, wouldtake effect in April 1988. It would allow the government toissue 1,000, 5,000 and 10,000 yen coins without speciallegislation, although higher-valued coins would still need aspecial law, the official said. At present it can only issuecoins of 500 yen or less. REUTER
HAITI ANNOUNCES FIND OF ORE-RICH GOLD FIELD The  Ministry of Mineshas announced the discovery of a major gold field in Grand Boisin Haiti's mineral-rich North.    At a press conference yesterday, a Ministry spokesmanreported the deposit contained an estimated 44 mln tons of ore,with each ton capable of containing 7,666 grams of gold. Thespokesman gave no estimate of what he thought the find,discovered on Wednesday, was worth.    However, mining could only begin after foreign partnersinvest eight mln dlrs needed for technical equipment, thespokesman said.    The Haitian government has never before operated a goldmine, but the United Nations has recently completed a threeyear feasibility study which lists Grand Bois and Morne Bossaas sites of important gold deposits.    In 1971, the Sedren copper mine in Gonaives, operated by aCanadian firm, closed down after years of mining a concentratecontaining gold as well as copper.    "The new Grand Bois mine represents large amounts of money,"said a former official of Sedren Mine.    "But like everything else there's a catch. The gold has tobe extracted, and first someone has to come up with the moneyto finance the operation," the official, who asked not to benamed, told Reuters. Reuter
JAPAN'S DOWA MINING TO PRODUCE GOLD FROM APRIL <Dowa Mining Co Ltd> said it will startcommercial production of gold, copper, lead and zinc from itsNurukawa Mine in northern Japan in April.    A company spokesman said the mine's monthly output isexpected to consist of 1,300 tonnes of gold ore and 3,700 ofblack ore, which consists of copper, lead and zinc ores.    A company survey shows the gold ore contains up to 13.3grams of gold per tonne, he said.    Proven gold ore reserves amount to 50,000 tonnes whileestimated reserves of gold and black ores total one mln tonnes,he added. REUTER
GERMAN BANK SEES HIGHER GOLD PRICE FOR 1987 Gold is expected to continue its risethis year due to renewed inflationary pressures, especially inthe U.S., Hamburg-based Vereins- und Westbank AG said.    It said in a statement the stabilisation of crude oilprices and the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries'efforts to achieve further firming of the price has led togrowing inflationary pressures in the U.S.    Money supplies in the U.S., Japan and West Germany exceedcentral bank limits and real growth of their gross nationalproducts, it added.    Use of physical gold should rise this year due to increasedindustrial demand and higher expected coin production, the banksaid.    Speculative demand, which influences the gold price onfutures markets, has also risen, the bank said.    These factors and South Africa's unstable politicalsituation, which may lead to a temporary reduction in goldsupplies from that country, underscore the firmer sentiment, itsaid.    However, Australia's output is estimated to rise to 90tonnes this year from 73.5 tonnes in 1986. Reuter
SOME 7,000 MINERS GO ON STRIKE IN SOUTH AFRICA Some 7,000 black miners went onstrike at South African gold and coal mines, the National Unionof Mineworkers (NUM) said.    A NUM spokesman said 6,000 workers began an undergroundsit-in at the Grootvlei gold mine, owned by General UnionMining Corp, to protest the transfer of colleagues to differentjobs.   He said about 1,000 employees of Anglo American Corp's NewVaal Colliery also downed tools but the reason for the stoppagewas not immediately clear. Officials of the two companies werenot available for comment and the NUM said it was trying tostart negotiations with management. Reuter
LEVON RESOURCES <LVNVF> GOLD ASSAYS IMPROVED Levon Resources Ltdsaid re-checked gold assays from the Howard tunnel on itsCongress, British Columbia property yielded higher gold gradesthan those reported in January and February.    It said assays from zone one averaged 0.809 ounces of golda ton over a 40 foot section with an average width of 6.26feet. Levon previously reported the zone averaged 0.226 ouncesof gold a ton over a 40 foot section with average width of 5.16feet. Levon said re-checked assays from zone two averaged 0.693ounces of gold a ton over a 123 foot section with average widthof 4.66 feet.    Levon Resources said the revised zone two assays comparedto previously reported averages of 0.545 ounces of gold a tonover a 103 foot section with average width of 4.302 feet.    The company also said it intersected another vein 90 feetwest of zone two, which assayed 0.531 ounces of gold a tonacross a width of 3.87 feet. Reuter
BP <BP> UNIT SEES MINE PROCEEDING British Petroleum Co PLC said based ona feasibility report from <Ridgeway Mining Co>, its jointventure Ridgeway Project in South Carolina could startcommercial gold production by mid-1988.    The company said the mine would produce at an approximaterate of 158,000 ounces of gold per year over the first fourfull years of operation from 1989 through 1992 and at anaverage of 133,000 ounces a year over the full projected11-year life of the mine.    BP's partner in the venture is Galactic Resources Ltd<GALCF> of Toronto.    The company said subject to receipt of all statutorypermits, finalization of financing arrangements and managementand joint venture review, construction of a 15,000 short tonper day processing facility can start.  Capital costs to bringthe mine into production are estimated at 76 mln dlrs. Reuter
BP UNIT SEES U.S. GOLD MINE PROCEEDING British Petroleum Co PLC said based ona feasibility report from Ridgeway Mining Co, its joint ventureRidgeway Project in South Carolina could start commercial goldproduction by mid-1988.    The company said the mine would produce approximately158,000 ounces of gold per year over the first four full yearsof operation from 1989 through 1992 and at an average 133,000ounces a year over the full projected 11 year life of the mine.    BP's partner is Galactic Resources Ltd of Toronto.    BP said subject to receipt of all statutory permits,finalization of financing arrangements and management and jointventure review, construction of a 15,000 short ton per dayprocessing facility can start. Capital costs to bring the mineinto production are estimated at 76 mln dlrs. Reuter
LEVON RESOURCES REPORTS IMPROVED GOLD ASSAYS Levon Resources Ltdsaid re-checked gold assays from the Howard tunnel on itsCongress, British Columbia property yielded higher gold gradesthan those reported in January and February.    It said assays from zone one averaged 0.809 ounces of golda ton. Levon previously reported the zone averaged 0.226 ouncesof gold a ton. Levon said re-checked assays from zone twoaveraged 0.693 ounces of gold a ton.    Levon Resources said the revised zone two assays comparedto previously reported averages of 0.545 ounces of gold a ton.    The company also said it intersected another vein 90 feetwest of zone two, which assayed 0.531 ounces of gold a ton. Reuter
STARREX LINKS SHARE PRICE TO ASSAY SPECULATION <Starrex Mining Corp Ltd> said a sharprise in its share price is based on speculation for favorableresults from its current underground diamond drilling programat its 35 pct owned Star Lake gold mine in northernSaskatchewan.    Starrex Mining shares rose 40 cts to 4.75 dlrs in tradingon the Toronto Stock Exchange.    The company said drilling results from the program whichstarted in late February are encouraging, "but it is too soonfor conclusions." Starrex did not disclose check assay resultsfrom the exploration program. Reuter
<VICEROY RESOURCE CORP> DETAILS GOLD ASSAYS Viceroy ResourceCorp said recent drilling on the Lesley Ann deposit extendedthe high-grade mineralization over a width of 600 feet.    Assays ranged from 0.35 ounces of gold per ton over a150-foot interval at a depth of 350 to 500 feet to 1.1 ouncesof gold per ton over a 65-foot interval at a depth of 200 to410 feet.     Reuter
VICEROY RESOURCE CORP DETAILS GOLD ASSAYS Viceroy ResourceCorp said recent drilling on the Lesley Ann deposit extendedthe high-grade mineralization over a width of 600 feet.    Assays ranged from about 0.35 ounces of gold per short tonover a 150-foot interval at a depth of 350 to 500 feet to about1.1 ounces of gold per ton over a 65-foot interval at a depthof 200 to 410 feet. Reuter
INSPIRATION <IRC> IN CANADIAN GOLD FIND Inspiration Resources Corp said a goldproject in northern Manitoba in which it has a 44.8 pctinterest has yielded estimated total reserves of 1,580,000short tons grading an average 0.185 ounce of gold per ton.    The company said <Manitoba Mineral Resources Ltd> owns theremaining interest in the project, which is located about 25miles east of Lynn Lake.    Inspiration said the project has proven reserves of 538,000tons assayed at 0.212 ounce of gold per ton, probable reservesof 686,000 tons at 0.166 ounce and possible reserves of 355,000tons at 0.183 ounce.    Inspiration said a production decision is expected to bemade in 1988. Reuter
MORGAN BANK PLANS WARRANTS FOR GOLD AT 425 DLRS Morgan Guaranty Trust Co of New Yorkplans an issue of 12,000 warrants for gold bullion at 425 dlrsan ounce, lead manager Morgan Guaranty (Switzerland) AG said.    Each warrant, priced at 955 Swiss francs, entitled holdersto acquire five-ounce bars of .999 gold in the period fromApril 30, 1987, to July 31, 1991, exercisable on Wednesdays.    The warrants represented unsecured, unsubordinatedliabilities of the borrower. Payment was due April 16, and aquotation on the Luxembourg bourse was planned.    The warrants, when exercised, would be repaid in currentdollars based on the value of gold on the exercise date.    The conditions represent a premium of about 145 dlrs anounce to the current gold price.    A Morgan (Switzerland) official said that on the basis ofthe maturity of four years and three months, the pricinginvolved an implicit volatility of gold of 24.5 pct before thewarrants were in the money, compared with implicit volatilityof 30 pct for the Indosuez gold warrants and 26 pct for theCitibank gold warrants recent issued with maturities of 18 and24 months. REUTER
EAST RAND MINES EXPECT HIGHER GOLD PRODUCTION East Rand Proprietary Mines Ltdsaid that barring any major disruption in production, itexpects 1987 gold output to top 10 tonnes after dropping to9.223 tonnes last year from 10.251 in 1985.    Chairman Clive Knobbs said in the annual report the minewas expected to mill a higher tonnage while capital expenditureduring 1987 will be around 118.5 mln rand.   The decline in gold production last year was due to a fourpct drop in tonnage milled and a seven pct decline in grade. Reuter
SOME 7,000 SOUTH AFRICAN MINERS RETURN TO WORK Some 7,000 black workers returnedto work after staging one-day strikes at two mines on Monday,the National Union of Mineworkers and the companies that ownthe mines said.    About 6,000 miners resumed work at the Grootvlei gold mineeast of Johannesburg after protesting the transfer ofcolleagues to other jobs at the same mine, owners GeneralMining Union Corp Ltd <GENM.J> said.    The union said about 1,000 mineworkers at a new coalfacility owned by Anglo American Corp of South Africa Ltd<ANGL.J> also returned to their jobs on Tuesday.    The workers at Anglo's Vaal Colliery south of Johannesburghad struck to protest the alleged refusal of officials of theSouth African homeland of Transkei to allow miners to attend afuneral in the homeland, a union spokesman said. REUTER
NORTH KOREA TO RESURRECT GOLD MINE TO REPAY DEBT Pyongyang and a group of Tokyo-basedNorth Korean businessmen plan to resurrect a North Koreangoldmine and boost annual output to almost one tonne within twoyears from 600 pounds at present, said Li Sangsu, a spokesmanfor <Unzan Mine Development Co>, the venture partner.    Work will begin on April 3 and the company aims to increaseoutput to 10 tonnes within a decade to pay off Pyongyang's 70billion yen debt to 30 Japanese companies, Li added.    "We expect this mine to be worth about 2,000 billion yen ingold deposits," he said.    The mine, started in 1896 by a U.S. Company, is one of sixor seven virtually untapped mines in the Unzan area, 94 milesnorth of Pyongyang, Li said.    Li said modern equipment and advanced technology wouldincrease yields. "Up to now, the mining was done with antiquatedmethods and basic equipment."    The gold mine scheme is the latest in a series of moves byNorth Korea to clear its debts to Japanese creditors.    Earlier this year, Pyongyang tried and failed to pay offpart of its debt with several tonnes of fish. REUTER
SOME 7,000 SOUTH AFRICAN MINERS RETURN TO WORK Some 7,000 black workers returnedto work after staging one-day strikes at two mines on Monday,the National Union of Mineworkers and the companies that ownthe mines said.    About 6,000 miners resumed work at the Grootvlei gold mineeast of Johannesburg after protesting the transfer ofcolleagues to other jobs at the same mine, owners GeneralMining Union Corp Ltd <GENM.J> said.    The union said about 1,000 mineworkers at a new coalfacility owned by Anglo American Corp of South Africa Ltd<ANGL.J> also returned to their jobs on Tuesday.    The workers at Anglo's Vaal Colliery south of Johannesburghad struck to protest the alleged refusal of officials of theSouth African homeland of Transkei to allow miners to attend afuneral in the homeland, a union spokesman said. REUTER
NEW MARKET EMERGES IN WARRANTS FOR GOLD A new market has emerged in warrants tobuy gold, a vehicle which bankers say brings some of the playof commodity options into the field of securities.    Over the past three weeks, Swiss offices of American bankshave launched a total of four issues of warrants with varyingconditions, drawing on renewed inflationary worries and therecovery of the gold price last year.    And Credit Suisse and Credit Suisse-First Boston eachissued Swiss franc bonds with warrants for gold which have asimilar character, though they are aimed at a less professionalmarket.    The market is still small. Taken together, the fourAmerican-led warrant issues raised only about 50 mln Swissfrancs.    But banks believe the vehicle meets a need of investors andpredicted a lively future.    Andrew Barrett of Citicorp Investment Bank (Switzerland) AGsaid: "The warrants give smaller investors a chance to have along-term investment in gold with limited risk."    Citicorp in Zurich launched the first of these warrants onFebruary 27, following it up with a second issue less than aweek later. The issuer in both cases was Citibank NA.    The idea found some quick copies. Goldman Sachs in Zurichorganized and co-led an issue for the Swiss branch of BanqueIndosuez on March 9 and last night Morgan Guaranty(Switzerland) AG did another for Morgan Guaranty Trust Co ofNew York.    The four issues now offer investors striking prices forgold ranging from the Indosuez issue at 410 dlrs an ounce, thesame price as the underlying commodity, to a 430 dlr level onthe first one for Citibank.    The premiums range from 22 pct to 36 pct and maturitiesfrom 18 months to four years and three months, in all caseslonger than gold futures and options on U.S. Markets.    The bankers traced the inspiration for the market back tothe February report of U.S. Consumer prices for January, when ajump of 0.7 pct raised again the threat of inflation.    "Many people are worried about inflation again," said MatsJoensson of Goldman Sachs. "Money supply in Germany and theUnited States has grown very strongly in the last year andpeople want to take a ride on gold."    The gold market, having seen strong gains in 1986, haslanguished just above 400 dlrs an ounce over the past fewweeks. But the banks saw in warrants the vehicle for a morehighly leveraged play where the downside risk was limited.    Barrett said it was natural that the market developed inSwitzerland. "People here understand gold, and they understandwarrants," he said.    Citicorp (Switzerland) pioneered warrants with a series ofequity-linked covered issues based on Japanese company sharesover the past two years, and last autumn, Swiss banks launchedcovered warrants in Swiss registered shares in a bid to giveforeign investors a chance to play in a market otherwise closedto all but Swiss citizens, and to play it with higher leverage.    But after a quick flurry of issues, that market dried upwhen Swiss shares prices fell from their January peaks.    The issues are being marketed not on the basis of simplepremiums, but on implicit volatility models devised to providescientific comparisons between titles in the options market.    Martin Bachem of Morgan Guaranty said his bank's issue wascompetitive despite its relatively high premium. The issue, forfive ounces at 425 dlrs, was priced at 955 Swiss francs, makinga premium over the spot gold price of nearly 36 pct.    Using a Black Sholes options model, he said the issue'slong, 4.3-year maturity meant the warrants needed an implicitvolatility of gold of only 24.5 pct for the option to pay off,which he claimed was lower than the other issues.    But Barrett said the Black Sholes variant Citicorp usedpointed to a higher volatily for the Morgan issue andemphasized that the models were at best an inexact science.    And each bank, using its own model, put the implicitvolatility needed for its own issue at close to 25 pct.    Whatever the calculation, the issues have received a warmwelcome from investors.    Joensson of Goldman Sachs said there was a lot of demand,even among small investors, who were buying 15 or 20 warrantsapiece. "The most sophisticated ones wouldn't buy these becausethe premiums are too high," he said. REUTER
MURGOLD RESOURCES <MGDVF> DETAILS ASSAYS Murgold Resources Inc said assaysreceived from 320 feet of drifting on the number-three vein atthe Chester Township property south of Timmins, Ontario,indicate an average of 0.528 ounce of gold per ton across anaverage width of five feet for the 320-foot length.    The last working face assayed 0.422 ounce of gold per tonacross 8.5 feet and the drift will be continued eastward fromthat point, the company said.     Reuter
GEODOME <GOEDF> TO START MINE CONSTRUCTION Geodome Resources Ltd saidfollowing receipt of a feasibility study from Raytheon Co's<RTN> Stearns Catalytic unit, it will proceed with constructionand pre-production stripping at its Sunbeam Mine in CusterCounty, Idaho, as quickly as possible.    The company said the study found proven ore reserves of3,302,000 short tons grading 0.077 ounce of gold per ton.  Itsaid the mine will operate at a rate of 626,000 tons of ore peryear, with higher-grade ore being mined in the first threeyears for a rapid payback of capital costs.    The company said the feasibility study calls for goldproduction averaging 41,000 ounces a year for the life of themine and 50,000 ounces a year over the first three years, with99,000 ounces of silver per year being produced over the miunelife.    Capital costs would be 22.3 mln dlrs with all-new equipmentand 500,000 to one mln dlrs less with used equipment, it said. It said the mine would be operated by a contract miner but theassociated mill by Geodome.    Geodome said a new ore zone discovered last summer is notincluded in reserve calculations. It said eight of the nineholes drilled there have an average grade of 0.046 ounce ofgold and 2.1 ounces of silver per ton. Also excluded arereserves of 1,400,000 tons of low-grade material that could bemilled profitably at 425 dlrs a ton for gold. The feasibilitystudy used a 350 dlr gold price.    Geodome said operating costs of the mine will average 201dlr per ounce of gold for the mine life and 171 dlrs for thefirst three years, in constant dollars. Reuter
GEODOME RESOURCES <GOEDF> TO PROCEED WITH MINE Geodome Resources Ltdsaid based on a feasibility study of its Sunbeam Mine it willproceed with contruction and pre-production stripping asrapidly as possible.    The company said eight of nine holes drilled on the new orezone have an average grade of 0.046 ounces of gold per ton and2.1 ounces of silver per ton.    The deposit is 400 to 500 yards from the newly designedSunbeam pits, has large tonnage and will be drilled off thissummer, the company said.    The study said ore reserves including dillution were3,302,000 tons at 0.77 ounces of gold per ton at a cut offgrade of 0.026 ounces per ton and stripping ratio of 4.24 toone.    It said gold production will average 41,000 ounces per yearfor the mine life and 99,000 ounces of silver per year.    It said gold production in the first three years shouldaverage 50,000 ounces per year.    Operating costs are expected to average 201 dlrs per ounceof gold for the mine life and 171 dlrs per ounce in the firstthree years. Reuter
LAC MINERALS <LAC> TO CLOSE LAKE SHORE MINE LAC Minerals Ltd said it will suspendunderground mining and exploration at its Lake Shore Mine atKirkland Lake, Ontario, on April 30, pending results of asurface exploration drilling program.    LAC said it does not expect the decision to affectearnings, but 44 employees will be affected.    The company said it has completed mining the crown pillarwhich has produced 71,000 ounces of gold since 1983. In 1986,the mine produced 10,600 ounces. LAC said it will continuesurface drilling in 1987 to determine if further undergroundexploration work is warranted.    Reuter
FORMER GOLD FIRM EXECUTIVES ARRESTED IN JAPAN The public prosecutors and policehere arrested five former senior executives of a bankrupt golddeposit business group for defrauding about 450 clients ofabout 1.5 billion yen for gold bars which were never delivered,police said.    The case involving the Toyota Shoji Company was highlightedwhen its 32-year-old Chairman Kazuo Nagano was stabbed to deathhere in public view in June, 1985.    Television crews which had been waiting outside Nagano'shome filmed two men smashing their way into the home and lateremerging with a bloodstained bayonet.    The company, established here in 1981, undertook to holdgold on deposit for investors. It grew into a nationwidebusiness operation with 87 branch offices and 7,000 employeesat its peak in early 1985.    Toyota Shoji's business group collected an estimated 200billion yen from about 30,000 clients, many of them pensionersand housewives, before the firm went bankrupt in July, 1985,according to lawyers.    Of them, some 18,000 clients claimed they could get backneither gold or money, suffering an aggregate loss of 150billion yen, local press reports said.    Police said the five arrested on charge of fraud todayincluded Hiroshi Ishikawa, 47, former Toyota Shoji president,and a sixth former executive was placed on a wanted list.    They were suspected of having collaborated with the lateNagano in swindling about 1.5 billion yen from about 450 peoplein Osaka and nearby Kobe during a six month period just beforethe firm's bankruptcy, they said.    Today's arrest came after narly two years of jointinvestigation by the public prosecutors and police, who hadquestioned about 3,000 of the firm's former employees,police sources said. REUTER
BP <BP> UNIT TO BUILD GOLD EXTRACTION PLANT Amselco Minerals Inc, a unit of BritishPetroleum Co PLC, said it approved construction of a new plantwith Nerco Minerals Co to process carbon ore to recovermicroscopic gold reserves.    The plant, to be located at the Alligator Ridge Mine nearEly, Nev., will process 1,000 tons a day of carbon-bearing oreto recover 70,000 ounces of gold over three years, it said.    The plant will use a chemical process called leaching toextract the residual gold, which could not otherwise beeconomically recovered. Operation of the plant, to be jointlyowned by Amselco and Nerco, is set to start in October.    The Alligator Ridge Mine is jointly owned by Amselco andNerco, a unit of Nerco Inc <NER>, which is 90.5 pct owned byPacificorp <PPW>, a Portland, Ore., holding company.    The mine has produced about 60,000 ounces of gold a yearsince 1981 using another leaching process, a BP spokesman said.The open pit oxide ore reserves of Alligator Ridge will beexhausted by August 1987, as expected, when the work force willbe reduced to about 72 from 127, the company said.    The employees remaining after that will operate the newplant, it said. Reuter
S. AFRICA GOLD MINING INDUSTRY HAD RECORD YEAR The gold mining industry hadanother "exceptional year" in 1986 with tonnage milled, revenuesand profits reaching high levels, the Chamber of Mines said.    Nearly 108 mln tons of ore was milled, three pct higherthan the prior year, while revenues rose 17 pct to 16.5 billionrand and profits increased 6.5 pct to 8.31 billion rand, theChamber reported.    The profit rise was achieved despite substantial costincreases and a 26.1 pct rise in capital expenditures to 2.42billion rand, it said.    The chamber said that a "comparatively buoyant gold priceallowed mines to continue the practise of mining lower gradeores which has characterised recent years."    It said the industry now mines to an average grade of 5.63grams per ton compared with 6.09 grams per ton in 1985.    Gold output for the year declined five pct to 638 tonscompared with the previous year's 671 tons. REUTER
BELGIUM DETAILS PRICING PLAN FOR ECU GOLD COIN The 50 European Currency Unit goldcoins which go on sale tomorrow in Belgium will be priced at apremium of seven pct to the value of the gold they contain, aFinance Ministry spokesman said. The price will be calculateddaily, based on the daily gold fixing in London.    Belgium is minting an initial 50,000 gold coins tocelebrate the 30th anniversary of the European Community'sfounding Treaty of Rome, but final production is expected to bearound 200,000. Each 17.27 gram coin will contain 55 grams offine metal.    Two mln silver coins, face value five Ecus, will be sold at500 francs each. REUTER
<D'OR VAL MINES LTD> FINDS HIGH-GRADE ORDER D'Or Val Mines Ltd said a recentdrill hole from the surfrace has intersected high-grade ore ina downdip extension of the Discovery Vein in its D'Or Val Minein northern Quebec.    The company said 42.3 feet of the hole graded 0.92 ounceper short ton of gold, including a 17.5 foot section grading2.17 ounces.    It said the zone is just below the projection of theseventh level of the mine about 1,450 feet below the surfaceand 820 feet west of the shaft.    D'Or Val said this find and other recent ones will makesubstantial contributions to the mine's ore reserves and grade. Reuter
GOLDEN NORTH HAS ENCOURAGING DRILL RESULTS Golden NorthResource Corp said said surface and underground drilling on theCanty project and Mascot fraction at its Nickel Plate Mountainproperty in British Columbia returned encouraging gold assays.    It said one Canty hole encountered several mineralizedintervals including 11 feet grading 0.342 ounce gold a shortton from 86 to 97 feet and 17 feet grading 0.756 ounce gold tonfrom 170.5 feet to 187.5 feet.    A Mascot fraction hole returned assays including 0.190ounce gold ton over seven feet between 57 and 64 feet, it said. Reuter
PLACER PACIFIC SAYS BIG BELL GOLD STUDY EXPANDING <Placer Pacific Ltd> said it willundertake a full feasibility study of Western Australia's BigBell gold prospect.    Results of an economic evaluation of the find, in whichPlacer has an option with <Australian Consolidated MineralsLtd> (ACM) to earn a 50 pct interest, were encouraging enoughto warrant a full study, Placer said in a statement.    Big Bell, in the Murchison goldfield 540 km north east ofPerth, was founded in 1904. Between 1937 and 1955 it yielded22.8 tonnes of gold and 7.8 tonnes of silver while millingabout 30,000 tonnes of ore a month.    Placer has said the prospect has an estimated 14 mln tonnesof ore with a three-gram-per-tonne concentration accessible byopen-pit mining and a further 4.5 mln tonnes with a4.4-gram-a-tonne concentration between 300 and 600 metersunderground.    It said it was obliged to produce the feasibility study nolater than December 31 this year by which time it would havespent three mln dlrs on Big Bell.    If the results are positive and a commitment to developmade then construction would take about 12 months, Placer said. REUTER
NEWMONT GOLD <NGC> SEES GOLD SALES RISING Newmont Gold Corp expects gold salesin 1987 to rise about 22 pct to 577,000 ounces from 1986's474,000 ounces, the company said in its annual report.    Newmont Gold, 95 pct owned by Newmont Mining Corp <NEM>,said it expects significant increases in gold sales in 1988 and1989 as well. Reuter
NEWMONT GOLD SEES ITS SALES RISING 22 PCT Newmont Gold Corp expects gold salesin 1987 to rise about 22 pct to 577,000 ounces from 1986's474,000 ounces, the company said in its annual report.    Newmont Gold, 95 pct owned by Newmont Mining Corp, said itexpects significant increases in gold sales in 1988 and 1989 aswell. Reuter
GERMAN ANALYSTS SEE GOLD RISING IN 2ND HALF 1987 The price of gold bullion is likelyto rise in the second half of the year on increased privateinvestor demand, West German analysts said.    Gold could rise as high as 500 dlrs per ounce later thisyear, said Peter Witte, director of Westdeutsche LandesbankGirozentrale's trading division, after a presentation by theU.S. Mint to promote its gold and silver Eagle series coins.    "A lot will depend on oil prices and developments on stockexchanges," Witte said, adding he saw gold positioned forfurther rises once it breaks out above 450 dlrs.    Gold was fixed this morning in London at 411.30 dlrs.    Despite current strong interest in gold mine stocks, manyinvestors still want to buy physical gold, Witte said.    Interest in gold mine stocks may also wane if stockexchange rallies under way in many countries start to waver.    Hermann Strohmeyer, vice president of Commerzbank AG'sforeign exchange trading and treasury department, said gold ispoised to rise to 460 to 470 dlrs an ounce in the second halfof this year.    The price is unlikely to fall much below 380 or 390 dlrs anounce, and probably will continue in a range between 380 and430 dlrs in the first half of this year, he said. REUTER
U.S. GOLD EAGLE SALES PROJECTED AT 3.1 MLN OUNCES American Eagle gold bullion coinsales are projected at 3.1 mln troy ounces in their first yearon the market, well above the target of 2.2 mln, Donna Pope,director of the U.S. Mint, told journalists.    World sales, which began on October 20, 1986, reached 2.193mln ounces in less than six months of sales. This made it worldmarket leader with a share of 37 pct in 1986, Pope said.    Pope said that in volume terms, nearly half of all goldEagle sales were within North America, roughly 40 pct were inEurope and about eight pct in Asia.    She said despite introduction of several new gold bullioncoins on the market recently, the Mint is aiming to preservethe Eagle's strong market share with extensive publicity.    The Mint uses mainly newly mined U.S. Gold for the coins,as long as this is available at market prices. The remaininggold is taken either from U.S. Treasury stocks, or from theopen market, Pope said.    Gold analysts said the Eagle is facing competition herefrom the Canadian Maple Leaf, and also to a lesser extent fromthe South African Krugerrand. Some estimated the Maple Leaf'sWest German market share at 60 pct.    The figures may be distorted, as many German investors buygold bullion in Switzerland or Luxembourg to escape the 14 pctvalue-added tax imposed here. Including the tax, the one-ouncecoins traded today at 906 marks, they said.    Competition may also come from new gold coins, includingBelgium's ECU, which began sales today. Britain and Australiaalso have plans to mint gold bullion coins, the analysts said. REUTER
CANAMAX, PACIFIC TRANS-OCEAN APPROVE PRODUCTION <Canamax Resources Inc> and <PacificTrans-Ocean Resources Ltd> said they conditionally approvedstarting production at their jointly owned Ketza River golddeposit in the Yukon after a study recommended the move.    They said production was conditional on approval of a waterlicense and arrangement of appropriate financing. Theyestimated development costs for the mine and mill would total21.1 mln dlrs, including three mln dlrs of working capital.    The feasibility study anticipated gold production of 49,600ounces a year at a cost of 129 Canadian dlrs a short ton, theysaid.    Canamax and Pacific Trans-Ocean said the project wouldyield a 40 pct after-tax real rate of return at a gold price of400 U.S. dlrs an ounce.    They said they would mine 460,000 tonnes of proven andprobable mineable reserves of oxide ore grading 0.45 ounce goldton at a yearly rate of 112,000 tonnes for a mine life of 4.25years.    Possible reserves of 75,000 tonnes grading 0.38 ounce goldton at the break zone would extend mine life by a year, withconsiderable potential for development of further oxide orereserves at the deposit, they said. Reuter
PERU SAYS NEW GOLD DEPOSITS WORTH 1.3 BILLION DLRS President Alan Garcia said Peru has foundgold deposits worth an estimated 1.3 billion dlrs in a jungleregion near the Ecuadorean border about 1,000 km north of here.    He told reporters the deposits, located at four sites nearthe town of San Ignasio, contained the equivalent of 100 tonnesof gold.    Garcia said the government would soon install a two mln dlrtreatment plant at Tomaque. It will extract enough ore toprovide an estimated 25 mln dlr profit by the end of this year,he added.    Garcia said the other gold-bearing deposits are located atTamborapa, Pachapidiana and a zone between the Cenepa andSantiago rivers. REUTER
PERU ANNOUNCES LARGE NEW GOLD FIND President Alan Garcia said Peru has foundgold deposits worth an estimated 1.3 billion dlrs in a jungleregion near the Ecuadorean border about 1,000 km north of here.    He told reporters yesterday the deposits, located at foursites near the town of San Ignasio, contained the equivalent of100 tonnes of gold.    Garcia said the government would soon install a two mln dlrtreatment plant at Tomaque. It will extract enough ore toprovide an estimated 25 mln dlr profit by the end of this year,he added.    Garcia said the other gold-bearing deposits are located atTamborapa, Pachapidiana, and a zone between the Cenepa andSantiago rivers. Reuter
<CORNUCOPIA RESOURCES LTD> IN DRILLING PROGRAM Cornucopia Resources Ltd said anextensive drill and sampling program will begin in mid-April atits Ivanhoe gold property in north central Nevada.    It said it will seek to increase the present reserves ofeight mln short tons grading 0.045 ounce of gold per ton thathad been found by USX Corp <X> on a small portion of the13,.000 acre property, determine the location of possiblehigh-grade ore zones at depth and test other targets. Reuter
ECHO BAY HAS NEVADA GOLD DISCOVERY Echo Bay Mines Ltd said itdiscovered a gold deposit in the Cove area near its McCoy goldmine in Nevada.    Echo Bay said it encountered gold in 39 of 42 drill holesat Cove. It said seven holes averaged 0.185 ounce gold a shortton and 1.8 ounces of silver, with the seven intersectionsaveraging 118 feet in thickness beneath 25 feet of overburden.    The discovery is on the McCoy property, one mile northeastof the McCoy open pit, heap leach gold mine, which is expectedto produce about 85,000 ounces of gold this year, Echo Baysaid. Reuter
ECHO BAY <ECO> HAS NEVADA GOLD DISCOVERY Echo Bay Mines Ltd said itdiscovered a gold deposit in the Cove area near its McCoy goldmine in Nevada.    Echo Bay said it encountered gold in 39 of 42 drill holesat Cove. It said seven holes averaged 0.185 ounce gold a shortton and 1.8 ounces of silver, with the seven intersectionsaveraging 118 feet in thickness beneath 25 feet of overburden.    The discovery is on the McCoy property, one mile northeastof the McCoy open pit, heap leach gold mine, which is expectedto produce about 85,000 ounces of gold this year, Echo Baysaid. Reuter
PROPOSED JAPAN TAX MAY DAMPEN TOKYO GOLD TRADING A proposed sales tax on gold transactionscould put a damper on the Tokyo market and encourage a shift oftrading to Hong Kong and Singapore, senior vice president andTokyo branch manager of Credit Suisse Paul Hofer told a pressconference.    "If you impose five pct on both buy and sell transactions,Tokyo participants in the gold market could be out of business,"he said. The tax would create such a spread that Japanese wouldbe unable to compete in the international market, he added.    "How can the government really raise taxes if the systemthey impose is prohibitive of generating business?" he said.    The government now imposes a 15 pct tax on physical tradesexceeding 37,500 yen for gold jewellery and coins and a 2.5 yentax per 10,000 yen on futures transactions, gold dealers said.    The new five pct tax would be imposed on companies tradingmore than 100 mln yen a year and apply to paper gold trades,gold deposits with banks and trading of gold bars as well asthat of jewellery and coins, dealers said.    However, the tax would lower the rate on jewellery andcoins to only five pct from the current 15 pct, they said.    Hofer said in 1982 Switzerland had imposed a 5.6 pct goldturnover tax on Jan 1, 1980, but abolished it on Oct 1, 1986.    A study by one of the Swiss banks showed that in early1980, the first year of the tax, the volume for all Swiss banksfell by up to 25 pct compared with 1978 and 1979, Hofer said.    Transactions of paper gold also fell up to 75 pct of thevolume prior to imposition of the tax, he said.    While gold transactions in Switzerland decreased, thevolume of trades outside the country, particularly in Londonand Luxembourg, increased between 10-25 pct, Hofer said.    Japan is a major importer of gold, buying a yearly averagejust under 200 tonnes, gold dealers said.    Last year Japan imported about 600 tonnes of gold, but thegovernment had bought about 300 tonnes for minting coins tocommemorate the 60th year of Emperor Hirohito's reign, dealerssaid.    Gold trading in Tokyo is dominated mainly by Japanesetrading companies, while Credit Suisse is the major foreignparticipant.    Daily turnover in the Tokyo spot market ranges between oneand 10 tonnes with the average around three tonnes, whilefutures turnover amounts to about four tonnes, gold dealerssaid.    "All of us are concerned daily with the fact that the Tokyomarket is growing, that Japan is becoming one of the threemajor financial markets in the world ... And in my personalopinion I think it would be a very big mistake to put a damperon this positive growth or developments by imposing such a tax,"Hofer said.    "I don't think it fits the philosophy of aninternationalising market," he added.    Officials of several major Japanese trading houses,attending the press conference, said they supported CreditSuisse's call for the government not to impose the gold tax. REUTER
INDUSTRIAL ACTION ENDS AT SOUTH AFRICAN MINE About 8,000 black miners returnedto work after a week-long industrial action at South Africa'slargest gold mine, mine owner Anglo American Corp of SouthAfrica Ltd <ANGL.J> said.    A spokesman for the mining house said the action started onWednesday last week when thousands of miners staged a go-slowat One underground shaft of the Free State Geduld division ofFree State Consolidated Gold Mines Ltd <FSCN.J>.    The action later escalated into an underground sit-in atthe mine over the weekend, prompting management to close theaffected shaft because of what the company described as "thecreation of unsafe working conditions."    Anglo American spokesman John Kingsley-Jones said thecompany held talks with the National Union of Mineworkers(NUM), South Africa's biggest trade union which claims amembership of 360,000 black workers, but failed to establishthe cause of worker dissatisfaction. He acknowledged that themine suffered a loss of production, but declined to giveestimates.    Free State Consolidated last year produced 104 tonnes ofgold from 28 underground shafts.    The NUM was not immediately available for comment on theaction. But a spokesman for the union earlier told the SouthAfrican Press Association that miners had been locked out ofthe mine at the weekend after staging a strike in protestagainst being ordered to carry bags containing explosives aswell as food for white miners. REUTER
CAMPBELL'S <CCH> MESTON LAKE SETS GOLD TARGETS <Meston Lake Resources Inc>, 65.3 pctowned by Campbell Resources Inc, said it will begin commercialoutput at its Joe Mann mine in the Chibougamu area of Quebec atan initial daily rate of 500 short tons of ore grading 0.15ounce of gold per ton.    It said it will improve throughput to 700 tons a day at0.221 ounce of gold per ton.    Meston said current ore reserves at the property total910,000 tons grading 0.211 ounces of gold per ton and 0.3 pctcopper, but it may be able to develop "substantially greatertonnage."      Meston said underground drilling below current developedreserves has intersected the main zone 200 feet below thebottom level, with the average grade assayed at 0.530 ounce ofgold per ton over true width of 17 feet.    A recent drillhole, east of the current shaft and 600 feetfrom the reserve boundary, intersected three zones grading,respectively, 0.708 ounce per ton over 5.4 feet at depth of 650feet, 0.706 ounce over seven feet at depth of 765 feet and0.418 ounce over one foot at depth of 1,000 feet. A secondsurface hole, 500 feet farther east, intersected 1.068 ounceper ton over 5.3 feet. Reuter
ASAMERA <ASM> TO FORM NEW MINING UNIT Asamera Inc said it willtransfer all its mineral interests into a new wholly ownedsubsidiary, Asamera Minerals Inc, which will later issue up to15 pct of its shares to the public.    The mineral interests will include Asamera's 51 pctinterest in the Cannon gold mine in Wenatchee, Wash. Asamerasaid the mine produced 116,514 ounces of gold in 1986 and isexpected to produce 130,000 to 140,000 ounces this year.    Asamera said its talks with Breakwater Resources Ltd<BWRLF> on a possible merger of mining interests, including theCannon mine, have been terminated. It did not elaborate.         Asamera said holding all its mineral properties in aseparate company will give better and more direct recognitionto the value of the assets.    Its other mining interests include gold explorationprospects on 13,000 acres in Inyo County, Calif., and 500,000acres in Canada's Northwest Territories, the Gooseberry goldand silver mine in Nevada, chromite properties in northernCalifornia and Newfoundland, and a platinum prospect in theRankin Inlet, Northwest Territories.                                                                        Reuter
U.S. GOLD PRODUCTION ROSE IN DECEMBER U.S. mine production of gold rose to244,900 troy ounces in December from 244,749 ounces inNovember, the U.S. Interior Department's Bureau of Mines said.    U.S. imports of gold in December were 692,700 ounces, vs2,011,754 ounces in November and 611,811 ounces in December,1985.    Gold exports totaled 243,191 ounces in December, vsNovember's 374,468 ounces and 350,078 ounces in December a yearearlier.    Mine production of gold in the 12-month period Jan-Dec,1986, totaled 2,951,151 ounces, vs 2,475,436 ounces over thesame period in 1985.    Gold imports in Jan-Dec, 1986, totaled 15,749,447 ounces,vs 8,225,999 ounces for the same period in 1985, while exportsstood at 4,612,919 ounces and 3,966,678 ounces over therespective periods, the bureau said. Reuter
SYNGOLD DEFINES RESERVES ON DEKA PROPERTY <Syngold Exploration Inc> and <CorpFalconbridge Copper> said they defined undiluted reserves of911,000 tons of ore with an average grade of 0.43 ounces ofgold per ton in two separate deposits on the Deka propertylocated at Noranda, Quebec.    Assay results from 20 suface holes drilled on 250 footcenters indicate that the Donalda number one deposit containspossible reserves of 611,000 tons at an average grade of 0.48ounces of gold per ton.    The number one deposit's reserves are contained between avertical depth of 750 and 1200 feet at a strike length of 900feet.    Reserves of the Donalda number-two deposit, located 1,000feet below the number-one deposit, were recalculated at 300,000tons with an average grade of 0.33 ounces of gold per ton.    Syngold has earned a 20 pct interest in the Deka propertyfrom the operator, Corp Falconbridge Copper. Reuter
WESTERN MINING TO OPEN NEW GOLD MINE IN AUSTRALIA Western Mining Corp Holdings Ltd<WMNG.S> (WMC) said it will establish a new joint venture goldmine in the Northern Territory at a cost of about 21 mln dlrs.    The mine, to be known as the Goodall project, will be owned60 pct by WMC and 40 pct by a local W.R. Grace and Co <GRA>unit. It is located 30 kms east of the Adelaide River at Mt.Bundey, WMC said in a statement    It said the open-pit mine, with a conventional leachtreatment plant, is expected to produce about 50,000 ounces ofgold in its first year of production from mid-1988. Annual orecapacity will be about 750,000 tonnes. REUTER
BELGIUM TO ISSUE GOLD WARRANTS, SOURCES SAY Belgium plans to issue Swiss francwarrants to buy gold, with Credit Suisse as lead manager,market sources said.    No confirmation or further details were immediatelyavailable. REUTER
BELGIUM LAUNCHES BONDS WITH GOLD WARRANTS The Kingdom of Belgium is launching 100mln Swiss francs of seven year notes with warrants attached tobuy gold, lead mananger Credit Suisse said.    The notes themselves have a 3-3/8 pct coupon and are pricedat par. Payment is due April 30, 1987 and final maturity April30, 1994.    Each 50,000 franc note carries 15 warrants. Two warrantsare required to allow the holder to buy 100 grammes of gold ata price of 2,450 francs, during the entire life of the bond.    The latest gold price in Zurich was 2,045/2,070 francs per100 grammes. REUTER
BELGIUM LAUNCHES BONDS WITH GOLD WARRANTS The Kingdom of Belgium is launching 100mln Swiss francs of seven year notes with warrants attached tobuy gold, lead manager Credit Suisse said.    The notes themselves have a 3-3/8 pct coupon and are pricedat par. Payment is due April 30, 1987, and final maturity April30, 1994.    Each 50,000 franc note carries 15 warrants. Two warrantsare required to allow the holder to buy 100 grammes of gold ata price of 2,450 francs, during the entire life of the bond.    The latest gold price in Zurich was 2,045/2,070 francs per100 grammes. Reuter
GORDEX MINERALS LOCATES GOLD DEPOSITS <Gordex Mineral Ltd>said geologists located more than one mln tons of gold-bearingdeposits, 0.057 ounces per ton, at Cape Spencer.    The company said it plans to invest 2.5 mln Canadian dlrsto expand on-site treatment facilities to process 100,000 tonsof gold-bearing deposits this year and 200,000 tons in 1988.    Prior to the completion of the recent exploration program,Gordex estimated the Cape Spencer deposit had 200,000 tons.    Gordex said the expansion of the Cape Spencer facilities isintented to enable it to operate 24 hours a day throughout theyear. Reuter
GORDEX MINERALS LOCATES CANADA GOLD DEPOSITS Gordex Mineral Ltdsaid geologists located more than one mln short tons ofgold-bearing deposits, 0.057 ounces per ton, at Cape Spencer.    The company said it plans to invest 2.5 mln Canadian dlrsto expand on-site treatment facilities to process 100,000 tonsof gold-bearing deposits this year and 200,000 tons in 1988.    Prior to the completion of the recent exploration program,Gordex estimated the Cape Spencer deposit had 200,000 tons.    Gordex said the expansion of the Cape Spencer facilities isintended to enable operation 24 hours a day throughout theyear. Reuter
ST.GOBAIN UNIT ISSUES ECU BOND WITH GOLD WARRANTS St.Gobain Netherlands, guaranteed by Ciede St.Gobain, is issuing a 75 mln ECU bond with gold warrantsattached, due May 6, 1992 carrying a 4-1/2 pct coupon andpriced at par, lead manager Salomon Brothers International Ltdsaid.    Fees comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession with 5/8 pct formanagement and underwriting combined. Listing is in Luxembourg.    Each 1,000 ECU bond carries one gold warrant exercisablefrom May 6, 1987 until May 6, 1990 entitling the holder topurchase one ounce at an exercise price of 490 dlrs. REUTER
SIX KILLED IN SOUTH AFRICAN MINE Six workers were killed and fourinjured in an undeground rock fall at South Africa's secondlargest gold mine today, the mine owners said.    It was the third major mine accident in the country in lessthan a week.    Thirty four workers died in methane gas explosion at a coalmine last Thursday. Reuter
GIANT BAY <GBYLF> IN IDAHO GOLD VENTURE Giant Bay ResourcesLtd said it signed an agreement in principle with Hecla MiningCo for an operating joint venture on Hecla's Stibnite, Idaho,gold deposit.    Giant Bay said if its bioleaching technology is used forore processing, it will have the right to acquire a workinginterest in the property. It said it may spend as much as threemln U.S. dlrs, excluding capital costs to bring the mine intoproduction. It said drilling has indicated substantial sulphidereserves with a gold grade of about 0.1 ounce a ton, and earlytests show the gold ore responds to bioleaching. Reuter
HOMESTAKE <HM> MULLS BUYING ORE RESERVES Homestake Mining Co is consideringacquiring more gold ore reserves in addition to the company'sexploration efforts, chief executive Harry Conger told Reutersin an interview.    "We are looking at more options to acquire more reservesrather than just exploration," Conger said adding, "the move toconsider acquisitions represents a change in the company'sacquisitions policy."    Conger said all of Homestake's current cash position of 120mln dlrs would be available to acquire reserves. In addition,Homestake has two lines of credit totaling 150 mln dlrs whichhave not been drawn on today and could be used to finance anacquisition, he said.    Conger said he anticipates 1987 exploration budget will beabout the same as 1986 spending of 27.3 mln dlrs. Conger saidexploration for precious metals may be slightly higher thanlast year's spending of 17.7 mln dlrs while oil and gasexploration spending will be slightly less than last year's 9.6pct.    Conger said he sees Homestake's 1987 gold production aboutthe same as 1986 gold production of 669,594 ounces.    However, 1987 first quarter production from its McLaughlinreserve will be about 10 pct lower than last year's 45,400ounces due to start-up production problems.    He said he believes gold prices will hold above the 400U.S. dlr an ounce level for the rest of 1987.     IN 1986, company earnings were based an average marketprice for gold of 368 dlrs an ounce.    Conger said a three pct change in gold prices represents a12 cts a share impact on earnings but he declined to give aspecific forecast for 1987's first quarter, due to be releasedin 10 days, or for full year 1987 results. Reuter
HOMESTAKE MULLS BUYING ORE RESERVES Homestake Mining Co is consideringacquiring more gold ore reserves in addition to the company'sexploration efforts, chief executive Harry Conger told Reutersin an interview.    Conger said, "the move to consider acquisitions representsa change in the company's acquistions policy."    Conger said all of Homestake's current cash position of 120mln dlrs would be available to acquire reserves. In addition,Homestake has two lines of credit totaling 150 mln dlrs whichhave not been drawn on and could be used to finance anacquisition, he said.    Conger said he anticipates 1987 exploration budget will beabout the same as 1986 spending of 27.3 mln dlrs.    Conger said exploration for precious metals may be slightlyhigher than last year's spending of 17.7 mln dlrs while oil andgas exploration spending will be slightly less than last year's9.6 pct.    Conger said he sees Homestake's 1987 gold production aboutthe same as 1986 gold production of 669,594 ounces.    However, 1987 first quarter production from its McLaughlinreserve will be about 10 pct lower than last year's 45,400ounces due to start-up production problems.    He said he believes gold prices will hold above the 400U.S. dlr an ounce level for the rest of 1987. Reuter
ENERGEX MINERALS <EGX> MAY RUN UP TO THREE PITS Energex MineralsLtd said economic evaluation of reserves indicates high-gradeoperation from three open pits may be feasable based onfive-year operation at 100 tons a day, a payback of less than1-1/2 years.    An increase in the project's life, profitability and scaleis anticipated as additional reserves are developed in 1987,the company said.    Current reserves are one mln long tons at 0.20 ounce goldper ton, all categories; proven-probable 262,242 long tons at0.25 ounce gold per ton, the company said. Reuter
FMC <FMC> TO SELL STAKE IN GOLD PROPERTIES FMC Corp said it will consider sellingto the public a minority interest in a subsidiary that willhold the company's North American gold and precious metalsproperties and operations.    FMC said its board also authorized the transfer of themetals properties to the newly formed unit.    An unnamed investment advisor has been retained to help inevaluating alternatives on the properties, which consist of awholly owned gold mine at Paradise Peak, Nev., a 30 pctinterest in a gold mine at Jerritt Canyon, Nev., and a 28 pctinterest in a gold mine near Austin, Nev. Reuter
JAPANESE FIRMS TO SELL AUSTRALIAN GOLD COINS Three Japanese trading companies and onecoin retailer will start selling Australia's Nugget gold coinsin Japan from May 12 after actively buying at the firstinternational trading of the coins last Thursday, officialsinvolved in the sale said.    They estimated Japanese companies bought 30 pct of 155,000ounces sold on Thursday.    The coins are likely to be sold in Japan at prices similarto the South African krugerrand. REUTER
GMK SAYS THREE KMA PARTNERS MULLING RECONSTRUCTION The three Australian participants inthe <Kalgoorlie Mining Associates> (KMA) gold mining ventureare discussing a possible restructuring of their interests in<Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie Ltd> (GMK), KMA said.    The other participants are Western Mining Corp Holdings Ltd<WMNG.S> (WMC) and Poseidon Ltd <POSA.S>, GMK said in a briefstatement. It gave no further details.    KMA is owned 52 pct by <Kalgoorlie Lake Pty Ltd> (KLV) and48 pct by a local unit of Homestake Mining Co <HM>.    KLV in turn is owned 47 pct each by Poseidon and GMK andsix pct by WMC.    The KMA joint venture was formed in 1976 and operates theMount Charlotte and Fimiston gold mines in Western Australia.    The two mines produced a total of 222,000 ounces of gold in1985/86 ended June 17.    KMA is the sole source of GMK's revenue and profits and themajor contributor to Poseidon's earnings, their annual reportsshow. GMK is owned 31.8 pct by WMC. REUTER
U.S. OFFICIAL SAYS EAGLE GOLD COIN HAS MAJOR SHARE A visiting U.S. Mint official toldreporters that American Eagle gold coins took the largest shareof the world bullion coin market in 1986 despite the fact salesonly began in October last year.    She said the U.S. Coins accounted for 37 pct of the worldmarket share, against 31.9 pct for Canadian coins and 18.6 pctfor South African. She gave no sales volume figures for 1986.    Sales of the U.S. Coins in the first six months of issuetotalled 2.32 mln ounces, exceeding the target of 2.2 mln inthe first year, she said.    Japan alone has imported 140,000 ounces of the coins sinceNovember, the official said, adding that the U.S. Mint seesJapan as a major market.    Sumitomo Corp and Tanaka Kikinzoku KK already distributethe coins in Japan, she said. Nissho Iwai Corp has just beenappointed a distributor, she added.    The U.S. Started issuing gold bullion coins, following theban on imports of South African Krugerrands to the U.S., In abid to offer investment grade coins to investors, the Mint saidin a statement. REUTER
JAPANESE FIRMS TO SELL AUSTRALIAN GOLD COINS Three Japanese trading companies and onecoin retailer will start selling Australia's Nugget gold coinsin Japan from May 12 after actively buying at the firstinternational trading of the coins last Thursday, officialsinvolved in the sale said.    They estimated Japanese companies bought 30 pct of 155,000ounces sold on Thursday.    The coins are likely to be sold in Japan at prices similarto the South African krugerrand. REUTER
RENISON GC AND CITY RESOURCES SET PNG GOLD VENTURE Renison Goldfields Consolidated Ltd<RGFJ.S> (RGC) and explorer <City Resources Ltd> have agreed inprinciple on a joint venture to re-examine the Bulolo alluvialgold field in Papua New Guinea, City Resources said.    City Resources would progressively earn up to 66.66 pct ofRGC's Prospecting Authority 585, which covers all the field, byspending a total of 6.5 mln kina, it said in a statement.    It said it believed Bulolo was not fully exploited in thepast, noting the literature refers to heavy gold losses intailings during dredging from 1931 to 1967 which produced atotal of 2.1 mln ounces.    City Resources also said previous dredging was only carriedout to a depth of 36 metres and high grade gold values arereported to at least 60 metres in the central part of theBulolo Valley and possibly as deep as 90 metres.    In its productive life, recovered average grade at Bulolowas 0.3 rpt 0.3 grams a tonne from some 207 mln cubic metres ofgravel, it said. City Resources will act as operator.    The Bulolo field, in Morobe Province, was the firstsuccessful gold mining operation of <Placer Development Ltd>after it was floated in Canada in 1926. It operated the fielduntil dredging ceased in 1967. REUTER
NORTHGATE QUEBEC GOLD WORKERS END STRIKE Northgate Exploration Ltd saidhourly-paid workers at its two Chibougamau, Quebec mines votedon the weekend to accept a new three-year contract offer andreturned to work today after a one-month strike.    It said the workers, represented by United Steelworkers ofAmerica, would receive a 1.21 dlr an hour pay raise over thelife of the new contract and improved benefits.    Northgate, which produced 23,400 ounces of gold in firstquarter, said that while the strike slowed production, "We arestill looking forward to a very satisfactory performance."    The Chibougamau mines produced 81,500 ounces of gold lastyear. Reuter
NORTHGATE <NGX> QUEBEC WORKERS END STRIKE Northgate Exploration Ltd saidhourly-paid workers at its two Chibougamau, Quebec, mines votedon the weekend to accept a three-year contract offer andreturned to work today after a one-month strike.    It said the workers, represented by United Steelworkers ofAmerica, would receive a 1.21-dlr-an-hour pay raise over thelife of the new contract and improved benefits.    Northgate, which produced 23,400 ounces of gold in firstquarter, said that while the strike slowed production, "We arestill looking forward to a very satisfactory performance." TheChibougamau mines produced 81,500 ounces of gold last year. Reuter
SKYLINE <SKX.V> EXPECTS TO BEGIN MINE IN JULY Skyline Explorations Ltd said expectsconstruction can begin next month on a gold mine at JohnnyMountain Camp, located 600 miles north of Vancouver.    The company said a contract has been let for a 200 to 400tons per day mill and the company is receiving cooperation fromprovincial and federal agencies on its stage one report,"approval in principal," which is required before actualconstruction can begin.    Skyline said it is optimistic the approval in principalwill be received in late June, by which time it expects to haveconfirmed threshold tonnage and grade targets so constructioncan begin in July.       Skyline said the 1987 exploration drift on 16 vien east atJohnny Mountain has advanced 320 feet. The vein is continuous,averaging four feet thick plus an altered mineralized hangingwall.    It said periodic face samples indicate an average grade of1.05 ounces per ton of ore ranging from a low of 0.78 ounce perton to a high of 55.8 ounces per ton. Reuter
INT'L PHOENIX ENERGY <IPYV> JOINS GOLD VENTURE InternationalPhoenix Energy Corp said it launched a gold recovery venturewith <Phoenix Exploration and Recovery Inc> and Mexico'sSistemas Tecnicos De Recuperaciones, Sociedad Anonima deCapital Variable.    The company said the joint venture will explore and recovergold, precious metals and artefacts from treasure ships worth10 billion dlrs reported to have sunk in the harbor area ofVera Cruz, Mexico.    The company said it expects work to begin in 30 days. Reuter
INT'L PHOENIX ENERGY <IPYV> JOINS GOLD VENTURE InternationalPhoenix Energy Corp said it launched a gold recovery venturewith <Phoenix Exploration and Recovery Inc> and Mexico'sSistemas Tecnicos De Recuperaciones, Sociedad Anonima deCapital Variable.    The company said the joint venture will explore and recovergold, precious metals and artefacts from treasure ships worth10 billion dlrs reported to have sunk in the harbor area ofVera Cruz, Mexico.    The company said it expects work to begin in 30 days. Reuter
THREE U.S. EXCHANGES VIE FOR GOLD The glitter of gold has generated athree-way competition among the world's largest futuresexchanges for a 100-ounce contract for the precious metal.    When the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) re-introducesgold futures trading here Tuesday (at 9 a.m. CDT), it will gotoe-to-toe in an uphill battle against the Commodity ExchangeInc. of New York (Comex), which brokerage executives describeas the world's precious metals futures capital forinstitutional business.    And by autumn, the oldest and biggest exchange, the ChicagoBoard of Trade (CBT), expects to join the fray when theCommodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) approves a pendingapplication for a 100-ounce gold contract to trade side-by-sidewith the CBT's smaller, one kilogram (about 2.5 U.S. pounds)gold futures.    The CME introduced a 100-ounce gold futures contract in1974, but lack of interest forced it to abandon the instrumentin July 1986.    CME officials said investors and brokerage firms asked theexchange to reintroduce the contract because of recentvolatility in precious metals. Other factors influencing thedecision may also have been clearing problems in May whichforced the Comex to shorten trading for three straight days inan effort to clear up a huge backlog of unresolved trades,especially in silver futures.    Comex's problems may now create a window of opportunity forother exchanges to successfully offer precious metalscontracts, industry sources say.    But it is much too early to predict whether other exchangescan inflict serious damage on the Comex' daily trading volumeof more than 40,000 contracts which represents commitments tobuy and sell gold of more than 2 billion dlrs.    While average daily trading in the CBT's smaller goldcontract, aimed at retail customers rather than institutions,was under 500 contracts per day throughout 1986, it hassurpassed 1,000 contracts daily for the past two months.    "The climate could not be better for this venture by theCME," said Merrill Lynch Commodity Marketing Vice President NeilMcGarrity.    "Everybody is talking about metals now, and interestingdaily trading ranges provide opportunities for bulls and bears.There's good trading volume in all world outlets," McGarrityadded.    "The Merc's gold futures would be insurance for dealers,merchants and customers that there would be a market open fortrading," if heavy gold or silver futures volume causes theComex to close early again, said Jack Lehman, senior vicepresident and director of commodities for Shearson Lehman Bros.Inc. and a Comex board member.    Delivery points vary for each exchange's 100-ounce goldfutures. Comex contracts are deliverable through New Yorkwarehouses while the CME contract specifies London deliverythrough a CME account at Samuel Montagu and Co. Ltd., a memberof the London gold market. The CBT gold application specifiesdelivery from New York and Chicago vaults.    The Comex and the CBT have applied to the CFTC for anearlier precious metals opening to match the CME's startingtime of 7:20 a.m. CDT. The exchanges said the earlier startallows for trading before many important government reports arereleased at 7:30 a.m. CDT.    CME marketing sources said arbitrage possibilities existwith side-by-side trading, noting local interests can begenerated by traders dealing in foreign currency and short-termdebt futures along with gold futures contracts to further hedgetheir financial risks.    "If the dollar rises, traders can sell currencies and buygold," said David Johnson, CME's manager of currency products.    The Chicago Board of Trade sees an extra advantage to goldtrading. "Given our night trading session, we could add eitherour pending 100-ounce gold or our existing 5,000-ounce silvercontract to attract overseas business," a CBT official said.    Which market is identified as the precious metal capitaldoes not appear to be a major issue among professionals.    "We've seen Chicago bring in a new constituency before, withperhaps different needs," Mocatta Metals Chairman Dr. HenryJarecki said.    "Merchants will go to the CME or anywhere to trade a liquidcontract. Our firm is no exception," Jarecki said.    "At worst, even if the CME gold futures fail, the Comex willbe under pressure to improve the integrity of its clearingprocesses," a CME official added. Reuter
GUNNAR GOLD (GGG.TO) IN VENTURE AGREEMENT Gunnar Gold Inc said it and Mill CityGold Inc signed an option and joint venture agreement withTyranex Gold Inc on the Tyranite gold property in Ontario.    Gunnar said it and Mill City can earn a 50 pct interest inTyranex's option to buy the Tyranite gold mine by spending upto five mln dlrs on exploration, development, and feasibilitystudies by 1990.    It said the companies may form a joint venture partnershipto bring the mine to full commercial production. Reuter
GUNNAR GOLD IN VENTURE AGREEMENT Gunnar Gold Inc said it and Mill CityGold Inc signed an option and joint venture agreement withTyranex Gold Inc on the Tyranite gold property in Ontario.    Gunnar said it and Mill City can earn a 50 pct interest inTyranex's option to buy the Tyranite gold mine by spending upto five mln dlrs on exploration, development, and feasibilitystudies by 1990.    It said the companies may form a joint venture partnershipto bring the mine to full commercial production. Reuter
SPHINX MINING <SPNXF.O> FINDS GOLD Sphinx Mining Inc said leasedmining claims in Alaska could produce revenues between 322 mlndlrs and 966 mln dlrs from gold reserves.    The range of the value of the reserves is attributed to thewide range of grade estimates of the ore, the company said.    A 1984 feasibility study put the grade at 0.008 ounces percubic yard, while subsequent exploration work proved that areasof higher-grade gravel of up to 0.027 ounces/yard do exist,Sphinx said.    The claims are located 80 miles northwest of Fairbanks. Reuter
SWEDEN'S BOLIDEN TO OPEN SAUDI ARABIAN GOLD MINE Mining group Boliden AB said it hadagreed with Saudi state agency General Petroleum and MineralOrganisation (Petromin) to open a gold mine in Saudi Arabia toexploit one of the world's richest deposits of the metal.    Boliden spokesman Goran Paulson told Reuters the Swedishgroup would  be responsible for the technical side of theoperation and would have no control over the product itself.    He said one option under discussion for refining the goldore would be to ship it to Boliden's Ronnskar copper smelter innorthern Sweden.    Paulson declined to give a figure for the deal but said itwas strategically important since it increased Boliden'spresence in Saudi Arabia.    "Representatives from Petromin have visited Ronnskaralready...We see Saudi Arabia as the expansion area of thefuture," he said.    The new mine, which is being developed at Mahd adh Dhahabin the west of the country and should open in the first half of1988, would have an annual output of about 3,000 kilos of goldsmelted from around 120,000 tons of ore, he said.    Boliden already owns 50 pct of a gold ore deposit in SaudiArabia, but the new venture will be the first Saudi mine toopen in modern times.    "This is a breakthrough for Boliden's sales of miningtechnology and knowhow," said the group's chief executive, KjellNilsson. Reuter
SIX KILLED IN SOUTH AFRICAN GOLD MINE ACCIDENT Six black miners have been killedand two injured in a rock fall three km underground at a SouthAfrican gold mine, the owners said on Sunday.    <Rand Mines Properties Ltd>, one of South Africa's big sixmining companies, said in a statement that the accidentoccurred on Saturday morning at the <East Rand ProprietaryMines Ltd> mine at Boksburg, 25 km east of Johannesburg.    A company spokesman could not elaborate on the shortstatement. REUTER
