U.S. GRAIN CARLOADINGS FALL IN WEEK U.S. grain carloadings totaled 26,108cars in the week ended February 21, down 2.2 pct from theprevious week but 22.8 pct above the corresponding week a yearago, the Association of American Railroads reported.    Grain mill product loadings in the week totalled 11,382cars, down 1.8 pct from the previous week but 7.6 pct above thesame week a year earlier, the association said. Reuter
GAO LIKELY TO SHOW CERTS MORE COSTLY THAN CASH A study on grain certificates due outshortly from the Government Accounting Office (GAO) could showthat certificates cost the government 10 to 15 pct more thancash outlays, administration and industry sources said.    Analysis that the GAO has obtained from the AgricultureDepartment and the Office of Management and Budget suggeststhat certificates cost more than cash payments, a GAO officialtold Reuters.    GAO is preparing the certificate study at the specificrequest of Sen. Jesse Helms (R-N.C.), former chairman of thesenate agriculture committee.    The report, which will focus on the cost of certificatescompared to cash, is scheduled to be released in mid March.    The cost of certificates, said the GAO source, depends onthe program's impact on the USDA loan program.    If GAO determines that certificates encourage more loanentries or cause more loan forfeitures, then the net cost ofthe program would go up. However, if it is determined thatcertificates have caused the government grain stockpile todecrease, the cost effect of certificates would be less.    GAO will not likely suggest whether the certificatesprogram should be slowed or expanded, the GAO official said.    But a negative report on certificates "will fuel the fireagainst certificates and weigh heavily on at least an increasein the certificate program," an agricultural consultant said.    The OMB is said to be against any expansion of the program,while USDA remains firmly committed to it. Reuter
SOVIET GRAINS SEEN ENTERING SPRING ON SHAKY NOTE Soviet winter grains could be off toa faulty start this spring after enduring an usually dry falland cold winter, weather and crop analysts said.    Prospects for another near-record grain harvest in theSoviet Union appear dim at this point, but it is premature toforecast any major crop problems, analysts said.    But the situation bears careful watching over the next sixweeks and will ultimately impact the Soviet grain supply andfuture buying plans, analysts of the Soviet Union said.    "From a weather standpoint, you can say with certainty thatthe Soviets are not getting off to a good start and will have alower crop (than last year)," Gail Martell, chief meteorologistfor E.F. Hutton said.    The next six weeks in the USSR's grain growing areas willbe the crucial period that will determine the final outcome ofthe winter crops, Martell and other analysts said.    "Where the crop is really made or broken is still ahead ofus," an Agriculture Department authority on the USSR said.    The Soviet Union recently reported that nine mln hectaresof winter grain will have to be reseeded due to winterkill.This would be equal to about 25 pct of the total winter cropand would be the second highest winterkill in ten years, theUSDA analyst said.    With a timely spring, Soviet farmers would probably be ableto reseed the damaged acreage with spring crops, but analystsnoted that spring crops normally yield lower than winter crops-- sometimes as much as 30-35 pct lower.    Normally winterkill is caused by inadequate snowcovercombined with cold temperatures. This winter, however,snowcover in Soviet grain areas has generally been excellent,so the bulk of winterkill, analysts speculate, likely has beendue to a very dry fall and subsequent poor crop germination.    "Fall dryness may be a problem. There's a good correlationbetween mediocre crops and fall dryness," Martell said.    Precipitation last fall was as little as 25 pct of normalin southern and northern Ukraine, and below normal over theentire winter crop area, she said.    Recent cold temperatures in grain areas in which thesnowcover has been gradually melting could also have caused problems of ice-crusting and winterkill, Jim Candor, seniorforecaster for Accu Weather, said.    Livestock feed needs have probably increased because of thefall and winter, analysts said. The dry fall damaged pastures,the cold winter raised feed demands and a late spring wouldrequire longer off-pasture feeding, they said.    "The Soviets are not in a desperate situation ... theydon't have to buy (grains) now," a USDA official said.    But if the Soviets are worried about their winter crops andif they feel that last year's huge crop of 210 mln tonnes was aone-time fluke brought on by perfect conditions, more Sovietbuying might occur to insure crop supplies, he said.    Bad weather during the next six weeks could push theSoviets back into the market, weather analysts said.    "A lot of winterkill could occur during the next month anda half," Martell said. Reuter
U.S. CONGRESS TO LOOK AT SOIL PROGRAM EXEMPTIONS The Senate Agriculture Committee isexpected to take up a bill tomorrow that would exempt fromgovernment conservation regulations those farmers who haverotated alfalfa and other multiyear grasses and legumes withrow crops, committee staff said.    Under current so-called "sodbuster" law, farmers who plantedalfalfa and other multiyear grasses and legumes on highlyerodible land in the years 1981 through 1985 lose federal farmprogram benefits if they produce a row crop on that land inlater years.    Sen. Edward Zorinsky (D-Neb.), sponsor of the measure, saidrecently that those crop rotating practices resulted in lesserosion than the practices of many farmers who producedstrictly row crops. Reuter
IZVESTIA SAYS SOVIET WINTER CROPS NEED RESEEDING The government daily Izvestia said aconsiderable amount of Soviet winter crops need to be reseededand the state 1987 grain harvest target of 232 mln tonnes willnot be easy to fulfil.    Without giving figures, the newspaper said: "A considerablepart of the winter crops must be reseeded, but that createsextra effort in the fields in spring."    The Soviet Union has previously said nine mln hectares ofwinter grain will have to be reseeded because of winterkill.    A U.S. Department of Agriculture analyst in Washington hassaid the figure of nine mln hectares would equal about 25 pctof the total winter crop and would be the second highestwinterkill in 10 years.    "The planned task of bringing in no less than 232 mln tonnesof grain is not simple," Izvestia said.    This week's sudden fall in temperatures has affected largeparts of the country and has caused fieldwork to stop in theUkraine, it said, adding that temperatures fell to as low asminus 30 centigrade in Byelorussia. Reuter
U.S. SENATE PANEL MAKES CONSERVATION EXEMPTION The U.S. Senate Agriculture Committeeapproved a measure that would exempt farmers who plantedalfalfa or other multiyear grasses and legumes between 1981 and1985 from a federal conservation requirement.    Sen. Edward Zorinsky, D-Neb., said his bill would restoreequity under federal sodbuster rules, which currently deny farmprogram benefits to farmers who, between 1981 and 1985, plantedalfalfa and other multiyear grasses and legumes withoutinterrupting the plantings with a row crop.    An official from a leading conservation group, who askednot to be identified, said the panel's move was "an unfortunatefirst action" because it could lead to the exemption ofpotentially millions of acres from the sod buster regulations,established under the 1985 farm bill. Reuter
RENEWAL OF U.S./USSR GRAIN PACT SAID UNCERTAIN Prospects for renewal of thefive-year U.S./USSR grains agreement are uncertain at thispoint, a Soviet trade official told Reuters.    The current trade imbalance between the United States andthe Soviet Union, high U.S. commodity prices, and increasedworld grain production make a renewal of the supply agreementnext year less certain, Albert Melnikov, deputy traderepresentative of the Soviet Union, said in an interview.    The current agreement expires on Sept 30, 1988.    Melnikov said that world grain markets are different thanwhen the first agreement was signed in 1975.    Statements from both U.S. and Soviet officials haveindicate that a long term grains agreement might not be asattractive for both sides as it once was.    "We have had one agreement. We have had a second agreement,but with the second agreement we've had difficulties withprices," Melnikov said.    "I cannot give you any forecasts in response to the futureabout the agreement.... I do not want to speculate on what willhappen after Sept 30, 1988," he said.    Melnikov noted that he has seen no indications from Sovietgovernment officials that they would be pushing for a renewalof the agreement.    "The situation is different in comparison to three, five orten years ago ... We can produce more," he said. Reuter
U.S. CABINET COUNCIL SET TO MULL FARM ISSUES The Reagan administration'scabinet-level Economic Policy Council is scheduled to meetFriday to discuss, among other issues, the status ofagricultural legislation, administration officials said.    The officials said discussion of a U.S. AgricultureDepartment wheat export subsidy to the Soviet Union was not onthe agenda. Matters not on the agenda, however, can be broughtbefore the council, the officials said.    Grain trade officials have speculated that USDA would makea wheat export enhancement offer to Moscow, but USDA officialshave said the matter is not under active consideration.    USDA today transmitted to Congress a package of legislativeproposals, including bills that would cut target prices andspeed up loan rate reductions. Reuter
USDA ESTIMATES 1986/87 USSR GRAIN IMPORTS  26.0 MLN TONNES VS 23.0 IN FEB, 29.9 IN Dart Group Corp said it offered tobuy Supermarkets General Corp for 41.75 dlrs per share in cash.    Earlier Supermarkets General said an "unsolicited thirdparty" had made the offer. Analysts estimated the value atabout 1.6 billion dlrs, based on 38.5 mln shares outstanding.    Kidder, Peabody and Co Inc told Dart that Kidder'saffiliate will be prepared to advance up to 750 mln dlrs on asubordinated basis.
CBT DISCUSSES MAJOR CHANGES FOR RENOVATION Chicago Board of Trade (CBT)agricultural and financial futures markets could be in for aperiod of major upheaval later this year if the exchange goesahead with planned renovation.    A CBT spokesman told Reuters the exchange was looking at anumber of options to identify the most cost effective andefficient way to proceed, including one which would involvemoving the entire grains floor out of the building and into thenearby MidAmerica Commodity Exchange.    "One of (CBT Chairman) Karsten Mahlmann's agenda items hasbeen to proceed with renovation in the financial futures room,"the spokesman said.    Another CBT official, executive vice president GeorgeSladoje, said the issue would be discussed this Friday at aspecial meeting on the exchange floor.    A number of presentations have been made with regard torenovating the financial futures room, Sladoje said. "We'velooked at five or six different alternatives, involving suchthings as flip-flopping the trading rooms," he added.    It is conceivable that under a couple of these plans, wemight use the MidAmerica Exchange temporarily for some CBTmarkets, Sladoje said.    "If we move out of one floor entirely, then theconstruction period will be about a year," he said, adding thatthe issue was likely to go to a membership vote first and thenbe on the drawing board for eight months to a year.    The CBT spokesman stressed that discussions were verypreliminary at this stage and nothing was likely to begin untilthis summer at the earliest.    In order to renovate the crowded financial futures pits,exchange officials have discussed providing them a temporaryhome next door in the present grains-dominated area.    This could involve moving CBT markets in U.S. Treasury Bondfutures, Treasury Notes, Muni-bonds, and options on T-Bonds andT-Notes through an adjoining corridor, while utilizing theMidAmerica floor for such CBT futures contracts as corn, wheat,soybeans, soybean products and agricultural options.    Any such moves could meet with opposition among some CBTmembers.    One senior floor trader said the financial futures roombadly needs renovating.    "There is talk the grains floor will shift to the MidAm andthe financials will move to the grains area," he said.    The CBT spokesman said another option being discussed wasto renovate the financial floor in quadrants, one quarter at atime. "The first step, after deciding the most effective way toproceed, would be to get architectural and engineeringdrawings," he said.    He added that it was difficult at present to determine anexact time frame for any possible moves. "This is a majorundertaking and a process that would spread out over nextyear," he said.    Floor traders at the MidAmerica Commodity Exchange, whichmerged with the CBT about a year ago, said they were preparingto vacate their floor at the end of this month.    Space has recently been cleared for them at the CBT bymoving its Major Market Index pit into the area once reservedfor lightly-traded CBT gold and silver futures, which now sharetheir trading area.    The MidAm specializes in mini-contracts in grains,livestock, metals, financials and foreign currencies as well assome options contracts.    "Rumor has it that the CBT grains are coming over herebecause the bonds are too crowded," one MidAm trader said.    Another source at the MidAm said this change could takeplace by July or August. Reuter
CARGILL OFFICIAL DEFENDS CERTIFICATE PROGRAMS The use of generic in-kind commoditycertificates has helped ease storage problems and is anecessary part of export promotion programs, a senior executivefor the world's largest grain company said.    Testifying before the House Agriculture subcommittee onwheat, soybeans and feedgrains, Robbin Johnson, vice presidentof Cargill, Inc., disputed claims that U.S. grain companieshave made huge profits from certificate trading.    "The certs program is not in any way a windfall to thetrade," he said. Johnson said that Cargill has been dealingwith a two pct spread in certificate transactions, and thatthis is within the normal grain marketing levels.    Johnson recognized current concern over the cost ofcertificates as compared to cash, but said that critics need tolook more closely at the savings caused by certs, noting forexample that widespread use of certs in the PIK and Rollmarketing technique last summer helped ease storage costs.    Certificates are also an important part of any exportpromotion program, he said.    "The more you look at ways to expand export markets, themore you have to look at ways to expand certs to put more graininto the market to meet demand," he said.    Subcommittee chairman Dan Glickman (D-Kans.) said hiscommittee would be looking at the certificate program laterthis year and studying the General Accounting Office report oncertificate costs. Reuter
CHINA'S JANUARY GRAIN EXPORTS FALL China's grain exports in January totaled386,157 tonnes, down 22.1 pct from January 1986, customsfigures show.    They gave no detailed breakdown.    The official China Economic News quoted the figures asshowing tea exports rose 9.7 pct to 8,474 tonnes during themonth.    Imports of wool rose 117.6 pct to 10,248 tonnes over thesame period, the figures show. REUTER
EEP SHOULD BE USED TACTICALLY, YEUTTER SAYS U.S. Trade Representative ClaytonYeutter said the Export Enhancement Program, EEP, should beused as a "tactical tool" and not as a general policy.    Yeutter made the comment in response to a question whetherthe U.S. should expand the EEP to cover grain sales to theSoviet Union.    He did not comment directly on the Soviet question,replying that any decision would be made at the highest levelsof the Reagan administration, and "I don't want to preempt that."    Yeutter told the National Grain and Feed Association EEPshould continue to be used as a tactical tool against theEuropean Community but not as a general policy. He saidselective EEP use has been successful in pressuring the E.C. Reuter
U.S. SENATOR UNCOMMITTED ON OFFERING 0/92 BILL Senator Richard Lugar of Indiana,ranking Republican on the U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee,has not decided whether to introduce an administration-backedbill to apply the so-called 0/92 provision to 1988 through 1990grain crops, an aide to the senator said.    The Reagan administration has asked Lugar to offer themeasure, the aide said.    However, a number of farm groups have told Lugar theyoppose the proposal on the grounds it would reopen the 1985farm bill, and the senator has decided to take a second look atthe proposal, the aide said.    Last week the aide indicated Lugar was planning to offerthe 0/92 measure and a bill to tighten a payment limitationloophole. Reuter
CHINA TO IMPORT MORE GRAIN IN 1987 China's grain imports will risein 1987 because of a serious drought and increasing demand, butwill be not be as large as in the past, Chinese officials andJapanese traders told Reuters.    They said foreign exchange constraints and national policywould not allow a return to large-scale imports, which peakedat 16.15 mln tonnes in 1982.    An agricultural official of the Shanghai government putmaximum imports at about 10 mln tonnes this year, against 7.73mln in 1986 and 5.97 mln in 1985.    Officials said grain imports rose in 1986 because of a poorharvest and rising domestic demand, but remained below exports,which rose to 9.42 mln tonnes from 9.33 mln in 1985.    "China is short of foreign exchange," the Shanghai officialsaid. "We cannot rely on imports, even at current low worldprices. Only if there is a major disaster will we become amajor importer."    A Japanese trader in Peking said Chinese grain importswould rise and exports fall this year because of the drought,low world prices and rising domestic demand for human andanimal consumption.    "At current prices, China loses yuan on every tonne of grainit exports, though it earns foreign exchange which it badlyneeds," the trader said.    The People's Daily said last Saturday a serious drought isaffecting 13.3 mln hectares of arable land, which will reducethe summer grain harvest from last year's level.    The paper added that leaders in some areas were not payingenough attention to agriculture, especially grain, making itdifficult to achieve the 1987 grain output target of 405 mlntonnes against 391 mln in 1986.    "All areas must spare no effort to raise the autumn harvestarea, especially of corn, sweet potatoes, paddy rice andhigh-yield cash crops," it said.    It added factory production might have to be reduced toprovide electricity for agriculture if it was needed to fightthe drought.    Since January, the press has devoted much attention tograin, stressing that growth in output is vital to China'seconomic and political stability and that prices paid tofarmers are too low.    Officials in east China have repeatedly said stable grainproduction is a key state policy and outlined the measuresbeing taken in their areas to encourage output.    The Shanghai official said that in one suburb, 10 pct ofthe pre-tax profits of factories are used to subsidiseagriculture. He said rural industries in other suburbs also setaside money for grain and pay the salaries of some of the70,000 workers available to help farmers.    Chu Jinfeng, an official of Fengbing county outsideShanghai, said factory workers get 60 yuan a month and threeyears unpaid leave to grow grain and can keep the profits.    Pan Huashan, an official of the agricultural department ofZhejiang Province, said rural industry also subsidises grainoutput in his province.    "In addition, we are setting up grain production bases,raising the level of science and technology on the farms andimproving the supply of raw materials, roads and otherinfrastructure," he said.    The Shanghai official said rural residents who work inindustry or commerce usually keep their land to farm in theirspare time, or let other family members farm it. In some cases,they lease the land to grain farmers.    The China Daily said last month that grain output shouldreach between 425 and 450 mln tonnes by 1990 and between 480and 500 mln by 2000. It said growing grain should be madeprofitable.    "The advantages the state promises grain growers actuallyyield tangible profits for them and are not siphoned off byintermediate agencies because of bureaucracy or corruption.Only this will boost enthusiasm," it said. REUTER
SOUTHEAST CHINA CROPS SAVED BY HEAVY RAIN The heaviest rains for seven months arebelieved to have saved more than one mln hectares ofdrought-threatened crops in southeast China, the official NewChina News Agency said.    This week's rains have alleviated drought conditions inGuangdong Province, the agency said.    China has warned that this year's harvest will be affectedby drought in many areas. REUTER
SOVIETS SAID TO SEE NEW FLOOR FOR GRAIN OUTPUT The intensive technology concept forgrain production has put a new floor under USSR grainproduction, the U.S. Agriculture Department's officer in Moscowsaid in a field report.    The report, quoting a broadcast on Radio Moscow, said thatdue to intensive technology grain production in a "bad year" willnot fall below 200 mln tonnes, and in a "good year" grainproduction could reach 250 mln tonnes.    The U.S. Agriculture Department currently forecasts thisyear's USSR crop at 210.1 mln tonnes, and if realized thiswould be the third year since 1975 that the Soviet Union'sgrain harvest has exceeded 200.0 mln tonnes.    The largest crop since 1975 was 237.4 mln tonnes harvestedin 1978, according to USDA data. Reuter
USDA OFFICIAL SEES 7-8 BILLION DLRS CERTIFICATES There will be seven to eight billiondlrs of generic certificates on the market by the end ofharvest, an Agriculture Department official said.    The Commodity Credit Corp will "depend heavily" oncertificates to relieve storage problems this year, RalphKlopfenstein, Deputy Administrator for Commodity Operations,USDA, told participants at the National Grain and FeedAssociation's annual convention.    Klopfenstein said that CCC will not be able to relocategrain in any significant amount this fall, so certificates willbe used in various programs to relieve storage tightness.    Klopfenstein said certificates meet the goal of allowingprices to go below loan levels and providing USDA with aninventory management tool. Reuter
USDA ASKS TIGHT INSECT RULES FOR GRAIN SHIPMENTS The U.S. Agriculture Department isproposing tighter federal standards setting allowable limits oninsect infestations in grain shipments.    The changes in the standards would include the following:    -- Establishing equal tolerances for the number of liveinsects in shipments of food grains, feed grains and oilseeds.    -- Revising the definition of "infested" to give equal valueto all insects injurious to grain.    -- Establishing lower levels of infestations. In 1988, theinfested level would be set at three or more live insects perrepresentative sample (about 100 grams), in 1990 two or moreinsects, and in 1992 the final infestattion level would be setat one or more live insects per representative sample.    -- Revising the definition of sample grade by adding alimit of 10 live or dead insects per sample.    -- Revising the definition of sample grade for wheat byadding a limit of 32 insect-damaged kernels per 100 grams ofwheat.    The department asked for public comments on the proposalsby April 17. Reuter
TRADE PROPOSES NEW EC GRAIN INTERVENTION RULES The European Community (EC) cerealstrade lobby organisation Coceral said it has written to EC FarmCommissioner Frans Andriessen to propose a new system for salesinto intervention, which it claims could save the EC budgetmoney.    It proposes that applications for intervention be madethrough a certificate valid for execution three months later.If during the three months the trader found a market elsewhere,he could buy back the certificate on payment of a one pctpremium.    Coceral argues that this would restore the originalfunction of intervention as a safety net and would end thepresent situation in which produce is often sold intointervention as a precaution. Reuter
PORTUGUESE GRAIN AGENCY BAN TO REMAIN - EC SOURCES A ban by a Portuguese court on thestate buying agency EPAC taking part in cereals import tendersopen to private traders will remain unless it is reversed inPortugal or challenged in the European Court of Justice,European Commission sources said.    They denied a statement yesterday by Portuguese AgricultureMinister Alvaro Barreto that the commission had accepted thatEPAC should be eligible, saying it had taken no view in thematter.    Under the terms of Portugal's accession to the EuropeanCommunity, a grain import monopoly held by EPAC is beingreduced by 20 pct annually until all imports are liberalised in1990.    Lisbon's civil court decided in a preliminary rulingearlier this month that EPAC should not be allowed to takepart, as it had done in the past, in tenders for theliberalised share of annual grain imports. REUTER
NO PROOF OF MORE CHERNOBYL GRAIN DAMAGE-DIPLOMATS Western agricultural attaches in Moscowsaid they had no evidence to substantiate rumours that lastApril's Chernobyl nuclear disaster had a worse effect on Sovietgrain than first reported.    Current Soviet interest in chartering ships to carry grainfrom the U.S. Helped prompt the rumours on world markets. Butthe diplomats said they had seen no reports in the state pressand heard no comments from officials to substantiate them.    The official media was initially slow in reporting theaccident but, under Kremlin leader Mikhail Gorbachev's campaignfor openness, gradually gave more and more details.    Land around the nuclear plant was contaminated to varyingdegrees. Some is now being used to grow industrial cropsinstead of grain. REUTER
EC MEMBER STATES COOL ON CEREAL PLANS European Community (EC) member stateshave generally given a cool initial reaction to proposals bythe European Commission for cereal price changes and relatedmeasures in the coming season, EC diplomats said.    They said that in meetings of the EC Special Committee onAgriculture representatives of most member states had said thechanges, taken together, would have too harsh an impact onfarmers' incomes.    Only Britain and the Netherlands had shown willingness toaccept the commission's overall package, they said.    As well as cuts of over two pct in common prices for mostcereals, the commission proposes a limitation of interventionto the February to March period and reduced monthly incrementsin intervention prices.    EC Farm Ministers will have a first discussion of theproposals at a meeting beginning next Monday. Reuter
ILLINOIS CO-OP FUTURES DISSOLUTION VOTE SET The shareholders of IllinoisCooperative Futures Co., the futures trading arm of manyMidwest farm cooperatives for more than 25 years, will voteWednesday on its possible dissolution.    The directors of the company called a special meeting andrecommended its dissolution last month, citing falling volumeand increasing costs.    Sources close to the organization told Reuters the pulloutof Growmark, Inc., which holds more than 70 pct of the capitalstock, led to the call for dissolution.    The possible demise of the cooperative has set clearinghouses scrambling for the trading business of the 85 regionaland local cooperatives that comprise its membership.    Ironically, it was Growmark, at that time a regional farmcooperative with major river terminal elevators, that foundedIllinois Cooperative Futures on December 1, 1960.    But Growmark became affiliated last year with ArcherDaniels Midland of Decatur, Ill., and markets its grain througha joint subsidiary of the two companies, ADM/Growmark.    With that relationship, Growmark no longer needs to tradefutures through the cooperative, said Tom Mulligan, presidentof the co-op.    Membership in the company, which Mulligan termed acooperative of cooperatives, has declined from 99 in 1982. Anotable loss was AgriIndustries of Iowa, which becameaffiliated with Cargill, Inc.    Illinois Co-op's other members include such regionalcooperatives as Indiana Grain, based in Indianapolis, Goldkist,of Atlanta, Ga., Midstates in Toledo, Ohio, Farmland Industriesin Kansas City, Mo., Farmers Commodities, Des Moines, andHarvest States in Minneapolis.    Some observors said the demise of Illinois CooperativeFutures Co. is a serious blow to the cooperative system.    Instead of banding together, the individual cooperativesare forced to go their own ways, said the floor manager of onecash house at the Chicago Board of Trade.    Such a move would destroy the cohesiveness that gives farmcooperatives an advantage in the market at a time that a fewmajor commercial companies are growing dominant, he said.    Don Hanes, vice president for communications with theNational Council of Farm Cooperatives, said 5,600 cooperativesexist today, down from 6,700 five years ago.    "The period we've gone through in the past five years hasbeen quite a crunch," he said. "There's been a lot ofconsolidation in the marketing co-ops."    One problem, he said, is the co-ops sell the grain to themajor commercials for export, rather than exporting itthemselves, losing potential profits.    But exporting grain requires heavy investments, and themulti-million-dollar loss posted six years ago by FarmersExport Co., a co-op set up to export grains, served "to makefolks gun-shy," Hanes said.    Mulligan said he believes the dissolution, if it isapproved, is a result of change in the futures industry ratherthan a change in U.S. agricultural economics.    A grain dealer at one member co-op said the futures arm"was a convenience, something that saved us a little bit ofmoney. (Its dissolution) will force us to change our way ofdoing business."    "We're sorry to see the co-op go by the wayside," he said."But there are lot of people out there to do business with.There are plenty of capable firms."    Steven W. Cavanaugh, vice president for grain marketingwith Indiana Grain, said he would prefer to trade futuresthrough a Chicago-based cooperative.    "In terms of clearing our business as a unit as opposed toindividuals, there would be economic savings," he said butadded, "The times change and with changing times, comedifferent opinions of what businesses ought to be around."    Cavanaugh said the possible demise of the futures arm hadnothing to do with its profitability. "I would guarantee youthat this company is not in trouble. It is a sound, healthyorganization."    In the year ended February 28, 1986, the IllinoisCooperative reported income of 10.2 mln dlrs and members'equity, or net worth, of 8.3 mln dlrs. The annual report forthe most recent year has not been filed.    Under the cooperative system, income from operations isreturned as "patronage refunds" to the members.    Income and refunds in the past five years have beendeclining. In the year ended February 28, 1982, the co-opreported income of 17.4 mln dlrs and patronage refunds of 17.0mln dlrs. Patronage refunds in the year ended February 28,1986, totalled 9.5 mln dlrs.    "You're dealing with substantially lower volume," Mulligansaid. "Lower volume translates into higher costs."    According to the company's 1986 annual report, Growmarkowns 90 pct of the preferred shares and four pct of the commonshares of Illinois Cooperative Futures Co.    Mulligan declined to speculate on how much of the capitalGrowmark is entitled to. He said he could not determine thefigure unless the shareholders decide in favor of dissolution.Equity is distributed according to each member's trading volumeand, as a result, changes from year to year.    However, Mulligan said the company could continue to meetminimum capital requirements to trade futures even if Growmarkpulled out. Reuter
IWC ups Soviet grain 1986/87 import estimate three mln tonnes to 29 mln -  Swiss lawyers have largely headed off anattempt to restrict banking secrecy and curb their powers toact for clients despite the new, revised code of bankingconduct agreed by the Bankers' Association this week, analystssaid.    The "laundering" of drug and "insider dealing" money andcontroversy over accounts of the ousted Philippine and HaitianPresidents have hurt the standing of Swiss banks recently andstrained international relations, particularly with the UnitedStates.    Critics said the new code fell well short of demands forreform, doing little to close a key loophole in the requirementthat banks know the identity of their customers.    The Social Democratic party, a member of the rulingfour-party coalition, which forced an unsuccesful 1984referendum to curb banking secrecy, complained the code stillfell short of the legal controls they wanted.    "It looks a slight improvement on paper, but the same trickswill still be possible in practice," Felix Meier, a senior partyofficial, told Reuters.    In contrast, Swiss lawyers are happy with the new code.    "Apart from a few nuances, we are very pleased with theagreement," said Max Oesch, a senior official of the SwissLawyers Federation, which has fought a long campaign to preventany curbs on lawyers' ability to act for their clients.    "It has shown that the 4,000 Swiss lawyers who do a good jobshould not be punished for the sake of getting at the one ortwo black sheep."    The role of lawyers has been at the centre of long runningdiscussions on the renewal of the so-called "convention ofdiligence," a voluntary code of banking conduct introduced inresponse to a major banking scandal here in 1977.    With secrecy back in the public eye due to the FerdinandMarcos case and a Swiss bank link to the recently busted "PizzaConnection" international heroin ring, officials at the BankingCommission said earlier this year they wanted a tightening ofrules on anonymity.    However, the changes in the new code, which comes intooperation in October, have been minor.    Clients will still be able to keep their identity secretfrom the banks provided their lawyer pledges that therelationship with his client "is not only of a temporary nature"and involves provision of other legal services.    The Lawyers' Association said this part of their businessis very minimal anyway. In the majority of cases, people hadperfectly legal private or commercial reasons for not wantingthe bank to know their identity, Oesch said.    The Banking Commission, despite its earlier demand for avirtual abolition of the loophole, also said it was happy withthe new code.    However, critics complain that the agreement does not gofar enough to restrict the role of lawyers and could still becircumvented by criminals.    "No other group in society is allowed to regulate itself asmuch as the banks," complained Meier of the Social Democrats. "Ihope that the Banking Commission exercises its proper controlfunction."    However, other parts of the agreement won praise.    In particular, banks will also now be required to demandthe identity anyone doing more than 100,000 Swiss francs worthof business with them, even if they do not have an account atthe bank. Until now, the threshold was 500,000 francs.    Peter Kluser, head of the National Bank's legal department,which had argued for a lower limit, said the move could helpcombat the use of banks to "launder" or hide the criminal originof money.    The new code also clarifies the legal status of a tribunalable to impose heavy fines on banks which do not respect thecode. REUTER
DUTCH GRAIN LEVY TEST CASE TO START IN APRIL A large Dutch animal feed compounderwill begin formal legal proceedings early next month as a testcase on the way the EC grain co-responsibility levy is applied,a spokesman for Dutch grain and feed trade association, HetComite, told Reuters.    Het Comite has been co-ordinating national actions againstalleged distortions caused by currency factors in the levy and,since December, has lodged more than 80 individual cases withthe Business Appeal Court in The Hague.    The basic complaint is that the levy does not take accountof currency cross-rates of exchange and therefore compoundersin countries with strong currencies may have to pay more intheir own currency than is paid to them by producers in anothercountry.    Het Comite has obtained a temporary agreement thatcompanies can pay the amount they receive toward the levyrather than paying a full guilder amount to the Dutch graincommodity board.    The spokesman said Het Comite will provide financial andlegal backing to the test case in the Business AdministrationCourt in the Hague. Oral proceedings are to begin on April 10.    The spokesman said Het Comite finally selected the companyfor the test case from among the 80 lodged "because the bill(the firm) received from the commodity board for payment of thelevy contained significant currency distortions and involvedgrain from a wide variety of origins." The name of the companyis not being made public.    The Administration Court is not expected to make a finalruling on the case in the near future. The Het Comite spokesmansaid it was very likely it would refer questions to the AppealCourt in Luxembourg, and "as a result it could easily be anothernine to 12 months before the matter is finally resolved."    Meanwhile, the actions by Dutch animal feed compounders areputting pressure on the commodity board to urge the Dutchgovernment to follow through on earlier statements and seek acomplete review in Brussels of the way in which the levy iscollected, the spokesman said.    Het Comite, as a member of FEFAC, the association ofEuropean animal feed manufacturers, is also a party to actionsprotesting the whole levy in the Luxembourg appeal court. Reuter
REPORT ON EXPORT MARKETS FOR U.S. GRAIN DELAYED The U.S. Agriculture Department'sreport on Export Markets for U.S. Grain, scheudled for releasetoday, has been delayed until Wednesday, April 1, a departmentspokeswoman said.    No reason was given for the delay in releasing the monthlyreport. Reuter
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - CHINA MUST PRESERVE FARMLAND "If we go on using upfarmland as we have done since 1980, there will be none left in20 years to grow grain on."    Xu Jinfeng, a middle-aged official in Fengbang village onthe edge of Shanghai, sums up the dilemma China faces as ittries to feed its more than one billion people and at the sametime let them get richer by building factories and new homes.    China has to feed one quarter of the world's population,but only one seventh of its land is arable.    Sharp increases in farm output since 1979 turned China intoa net grain exporter for the first time in 1985, and again in1986.    But the rapid industrialisation of the countryside whichhas occurred at the same time, has gobbled up arable land forfactories and homes for peasants who can now afford them.    Official figures show that China lost just under one pct ofits arable land to other uses in 1985 and a slightly smalleramount last year. It gained 26 mln new mouths to feed duringthe two years.    "We lost very little land prior to 1980 when theindustrialisation began," official Xu said. "Since then, nearlyall the families in the county have built new homes and manyfactories have gone up."    "Last year we lost land to a new railway line," Xu said. Butland losses in future should fall because nearly all familiesalready have new houses, she added.    The issue of land loss is a matter of major concern to thePeking leadership, which announced earlier this month thatChina will issue nationwide quotas for conversion of grain landfor the first time this year.    "The present situation of abusing, occupying unlawfully,wasting and destroying land and land resources is serious," saidan article in the official press explaining the new measures.    "It has resulted in great losses of cultivated farmland," itsaid. "China has a large population and its land resources arebadly deficient."    An official of the Shanghai city government said countyauthorities could approve conversion of only 0.3 hectares ofarable land to other uses, while anything more than that mustbe approved by the city government.   The Peking government faces another major obstacle in itsefforts to ensure China's people get enough grain to eat. Theprices the state pays to farmers for grain are too low, makingit more profitable for them to grow other crops.    To offset this, the state offers farmers cheap fertiliserand diesel oil and payment in advance for grain it contracts tobuy. The state then sells the grain at subsidised prices toChina's 200 mln city residents. Rural factories also subsidisegrain output, paying farmers bonuses to grow it.    Some officials argue that the simplest solution to theproblem would be for the state to raise city grain prices.    Chen Zuyuan, Communist Party secretary of a village in theeastern province of Zhejiang, said the government listened toomuch to the demands of "selfish city people" and could raise citygrain prices without any problem.    But the government has ruled out a price rise. "Raising theprice of grain would directly conflict with the goal of socialstability," said a China Daily editorial this month.    The Shanghai official said prices must be reformed over thelong term. "We must be very careful. We have a very largepopulation which is used to price stability and will object toprice rises," he said. "The problem is how to do it."    The Shanghai official said a rise in grain prices mightalso affect the prices of hundreds of food products made withgrain and consumed by city residents.    In addition, the state faces the problem of inadequateinvestment by farmers in land and in grain in particular.    The official press has reported that farmers fear farmpolicy may change and they are putting their new wealth intobuilding graves, memorial halls for ancestors and homes.    Under reforms introduced in the late 1970s, farmers signcontracts with the state requiring them to grow certain crops,but they have considerable freedom in how to use their land.    "As the expiration date of the 15-year contract is almost atthe halfway mark, farmers are beginning to worry about thefuture," the China Daily said in an editorial last month.    Their anxieties stem from the fact that they are allowed touse the land but not own it. For most of the period ofCommunist rule, the land was organised into collectives wherethere was little room for individual initiative.    "New measures are needed to reassure them of the consistencyof government policies and make them interested in long-terminvestment," the newspaper said. REUTER
CEREALS MCAS TO BE UNCHANGED NEXT WEEK Monetary compensatory amounts, MCA's,will be unchanged for the week starting April 6, EC Commissionofficials said.    Cereals MCA's are plus 2.4 points for West Germany and theNetherlands, minus two points for Denmark, minus eight pointsfor France, minus nine for Ireland, minus 5.7 for Italy, minus25.7 for Britain, minus 44.1 for Greece and minus 10.5 forSpain. Reuter
USDA GRAIN INSPECTION ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING The Federal Grain Inspection ServiceAdvisory Committee will meet here Monday, April 13, the U.S.Agriculture Department said.    Items on the agenda for the meeting, which is scheduled tobegin at 0830 edt, are grain-quality issues, status of proposedregulations, financial matters and safety matters, thedepartment said.    The Federal Grain Inspection Service Advisory Committee iscomposed of 12 members representing the grain industry whoprovide advice to the administrator of the Federal GrainInspection Service. Reuter
JAPAN STUDY URGES FOREIGN ACCESS TO FARM MARKETS Japan should increase foreign access toits farm products market, while encouraging further developmentof domestic agriculture, a government report said.    The white paper on agriculture for the year ended March 31said active participation in writing world farm trade rules atthe next round of General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT)talks will help prepare Japan to improve access.    Agriculture Ministry sources said the paper marked aneasing in Japan's tough position on agricultural imports whichstressed the need for strict controls on some products tomaintain self-sufficiency in food.    Japan now produces only 30 pct of its annual grain needs,down from 61 pct some 20 years ago, official figures show.    The paper said Japanese agriculture has been slow toimprove productivity and demand/supply imbalances.    The relative shortage of farmland in Japan is mainlyresponsible for higher domestic prices, it said.    The strong yen has meant lower input material prices buthas also resulted in higher agricultural imports which hasworsened working conditions among part-time farmers, the papersaid.    This could make it difficult to improve the industry'sstructure, the paper said.    To solve these problems and to reduce farm product pricesto more reasonable levels, Japan should try to restructure thethe agricultural sector to improve productivity and make itself-supporting, it said. Reuter
ADM GRAIN ELEVATOR EXPLODES IN BURLINGTON, IOWA A grain elevator in Burlington, Iowa,exploded today, leaving five injured.    The elevator, operated by Archer Daniels Midland Co. ofDecatur, Ill., is a terminal elevator on the Mississippi River,Doug Snyder, assistant to the vice president said.    The cause of the explosion and the extent of damage to theelevator was not immediatley known. Reuter
U.S. GRAIN CARLOADINGS FALL IN WEEK U.S. grain carloadings totaled 25,744cars in the week ended March 28, down 4.3 pct from the previousweek but 41.6 pct above the corresponding week a year ago, theAssociation of American Railroads reported.    Grain mill product loadings in the week totalled 10,920cars, up 0.1 pct from the previous week and 12.7 pct above thesame week a year earlier, the association said. Reuter
SOVIET GRAIN PRODUCTS MINISTRY CRITICISED The Soviet Communist Party has criticisedthe country's Grain Products Ministry for failing to ensureproper grain storage, turning out poor quality bread and forunsatisfactory book keeping, Pravda said.    The party daily said that losses in the industry owing towaste and theft amounted to 7.3 mln roubles over the last twoand a half years.    The situation was particularly bad in the Central Asianrepublic of Kazakhstan, which has been severely criticisedsince the ousting of its veteran leader Dinmukhamed Kunayevlast December.    Its new leader, Gennady Kolbin, has said that at times thegrain-growing republic has performed so badly that it has beenobliged to seek grain supplies from national reserves.    Tass news agency announced yesterday that Grain ProductsMinister Grigory Zolotukhin, 75, was being retired and replacedby Alexander Budyka, a senior food industry official.    Pravda added today that the crisis in the industry had beendrawn to Zolotukhin's attention and two of his deputiesreprimanded. REUTER
U.S. GRAIN CERTS SAVE 50-100 MLN DLRS - AMSTUTZ The use of generic commoditycertificates, or "certs," for fiscal years 1986-88 will savethe government 50 to 100 mln dlrs, Department of AgricultureUndersecretary Daniel Amstutz said.    Speaking at a House agriculture subcommittee hearing on theuse of the certificates, Amstutz said that the issuance of 8.5billion dlrs of certificates during fiscal years 1986-88 couldresult in government outlays of up to 400 mln dlrs.    However, the use of certificates preclude the need for 450to 500 mln dlrs in storage and handling costs, resulting in netsavings for the government of 50-100 mln dlrs, he said.    Without the use of certificates, Amstutz said nearly theentire 1985 crop which had been put under loan would have beenforfeited to the Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC.    In addition, 260 mln bushels of grain that have beenredeemed from CCC inventory through certificate exchanges wouldhave remained in the goverment inventory, he said.    When asked to comment on a recent study by the GeneralAccounting Office that concluded certificates result in a netcost to the government, Amstutz said, "GAO underestimated thebenefits and overstated the costs" of the certificate program.    Amstutz said while certificates encourage more loanentries, they also encourage heavier loan redemptions ratherthan forfeitures.    GAO underestimated this net loan activity, Amstutz said.    "There is no question in the mind of the Department ofAgriculture that these certificates have been very useful,"Amstutz said.    Immediate benefits of certificates include greater marketliquidity, improved market price competitiveness, higher farmincome, and improved debt situation and decreased carryingcosts, he said.    Certificates are an integral part of USDA's long-rangemarket-oriented farm policy, he said.    Amstutz told subcommittee Chairman Rep. Dan Glickman,D-Kans., that USDA is in the process of preparing an officialresponse to the GAO study on certificates and will submit it tothe subcommittee when completed. Reuter
MORE U.S. GRAIN CERTIFICATES NEEDED, STUDY SAYS More generic grain certificatesshould be released onto the market in order for the U.S.certificate program to have its full effect on commodities,according to a study by Sparks Commodities Inc.    The Agriculture Department should make grain deficiencypayments and paid land diversion payments in a two-thirdcertificate, one-third cash ratio through fiscal year 1989, Carroll Brunthaver, president of Sparks Commodities, told aHouse agriculture subcommittee hearing on certificates.    Thereafter, government payments should be issued in roughlya 50-50 split between cash and certificates, Brunthaver said.    The Sparks study on certificates examined two possiblescenarios through the 1990 growing season -- a "zerocertificate case," where no certificate program was assumed,and an alternative case labeled "adequate certificate case" inwhich sufficient certificates would be released so that grainprices would not be artificially supported by market shortagesdue to acreage reduction programs or government holdings.    The study showed that total grain use under the adequatecertificate scenario would exceed the zero certificate scenarioby 11.2 pct.    Usage would be markedly more in 1989 and 1990, when grainusage under a certificate program was estimated to exceed thezero certificate case by 15 to 19 pct.    For the five-year period examined, government expendituresunder the adequate certificate case were 7.0 billion dlrs, or7.5 pct less than under the zero certificate case.    The Sparks study said that 5.1 billion dlrs, or 70 pct ofthose savings resulted from smaller government storage costs.    The study also estimated that government grain stocks underthe adequate certificate case would be 4.7 billion bushelsbelow the zero certificate case at the end of the periodexamined.    The Sparks study said that while certificates permit marketprices to fall below loan levels, these lower prices increasecommodity usage and reduce the net costs of certificates versuscash. Reuter
USSR CROP WEATHER SUMMARY -- USDA/NOAA Gradual warming continued in mostregions of Western Soviet Union in the week ended April 4, theJoint Agricultural Weather Facility of the U.S Agriculture andCommerce Departments said.    In its International Weather and Crop Summary, the agencysaid most of the region's precipitation fell as rain.    The southern snow cover boundary continued to slowlyretreat northward and eastward, it said.    Moderate to deep snow cover the northern half of theUkraine, northern North Caucasus, and the lower Volga, aboutone month later than usual, it said.    The agency said average weekly temperatures were belownormal in the southeast, near normal in the southwest andnortheast, and above normal in the northwest.    Winter grains remained dormant over the region, but warmweather promoted greening in crop areas adjacent to the BlackSea coast, it said. Reuter
CHINA DAILY SAYS VERMIN EAT 7-12 PCT GRAIN STOCKS A survey of 19 provinces and seven citiesshowed vermin consume between seven and 12 pct of China's grainstocks, the China Daily said.    It also said that each year 1.575 mln tonnes, or 25 pct, ofChina's fruit output are left to rot, and 2.1 mln tonnes, or upto 30 pct, of its vegetables. The paper blamed the waste oninadequate storage and bad preservation methods.    It said the government had launched a national programme toreduce waste, calling for improved technology in storage andpreservation, and greater production of additives. The papergave no further details. REUTER
ARGENTINE GRAIN BELT WEATHER REPORT ARGENTINE GRAIN BELT TEMPERATURES(CENTIGRADE) AND RAIN (MM) IN THE 24 HOURS TO 12.00 GMT WERE:    ...............MAX TEMP..MIN TEMP..RAINFALL    BUENOS AIRES.......24.......12............0    BAHIA BLANCA.......22........7............0    TRES ARROYOS.......22........8............0    TANDIL.............22........7............0    JUNIN..............24.......11............0    SANTA ROSA.........--........6............0    CORDOBA............23.......12............1    SANTA FE...........21.......18...........17 REUTER
USDA ESTIMATES 1986/87 USSR GRAIN IMPORTS  28.0 MLN TONNES VS 26.0 IN MARCH, 29.9  International American Homes Incsaid it would not be able to release any statements concerningits stock halt on Nasdaq for about 45 minutes to an hour.    American Homes, whose stock halted on a last sale of 7-3/4,said the only executive who could release the news would not beavailable until then. Reuter
USDA ESTIMATES 1986 SOVIET GRAIN CROP  AT 210 MLN TONNES VS 210 IN MARCH, 192  National Medical Enterprises Incsaid it filed a registration statement with the Securities andExchange Commission covering 300 mln dlrs of debt securities.    The proposed offering includes 150 mln dlrs of 30-yeardebentures and 150 mln dlrs of 10-year notes, the company said.    Net proceeds from the offering will be used to reduce bankborrowings, National Medical said, adding, Merrill LynchCapital Markets will manage the underwriting. Reuter
COARSE GRAIN SUPPLY/DEMAND BY COUNTRY -- USDA The U.S. Agriculture Departmentdetailed world supply/demand data for major importers andexporters of coarse grains, by country, as follows in mlntonnes --    USSR COARSE GRAIN               1986/87           1985/86          04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks  N.A.    N.A.      N.A.    N.A. Production 103.30  103.30     99.99   99.99 Imports     12.00   10.00     13.70   13.70 Domes Use  112.30  112.30    111.99  111.99 Exports       NIL     NIL       NIL     NIL End Stocks   N.A.    N.A.      N.A.    N.A. N.A. - Not Available.    EC-12 COARSE GRAIN, in mln tonnes --              1986/87            1985/86         04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 14.91   14.93    10.53   10.53 Production  81.22   81.19    88.21   88.28 Imports     16.58   17.26    18.29   18.24 Dom Use     79.64   81.27    82.38   82.55 Exports     19.90   19.96    19.73   19.56 End Stocks  13.18   12.15    14.91   14.93    EASTERN EUROPE COARSE GRAIN, mln tonnes --               1986/87            1985/86          04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks  4.07    3.72     5.14    5.14 Production  73.95   74.50    68.28   68.38 Imports      4.90    4.47     5.58    5.26 Dom Use     73.04   73.23    72.65   72.77 Exports      3.55    3.55     2.28    2.28 End Stocks   6.34    5.46     4.07    3.72    JAPAN COARSE GRAIN, in mln tonnes --              1986/87           1985/86         04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 2.32    2.23     1.91    1.91 Production  0.35    0.35     0.39    0.39 Imports    21.56   21.50    21.51   21.51 Dom Use    21.79   21.73    21.49   21.49 Exports      NIL     NIL      NIL     NIL End Stocks  2.44    2.44     2.32    2.32    ARGENTINA COARSE GRAIN, in mln tonnes --               1986/87            1985/86          04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks  0.78    0.53     0.83    0.83 Production  13.99   15.44    17.06   17.14 Imports      0.02     NIL      NIL     NIL Domes Use    7.73    7.75     7.76    7.87 Exports      6.60    7.73     9.43    9.58 End Stocks   0.46    0.49     0.78    0.53    CANADA COARSE GRAIN, in mln tonnes --              1986/87            1985/86         04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 6.19    6.19     4.66    4.61 Production 27.62   27.62    24.95   24.95 Imports     0.30    0.30     0.31    0.31 Dom Use    19.80   19.80    18.99   18.96 Exports     7.41    7.21     4.74    4.72 End Stocks  6.90    7.10     6.19    6.19    THAILAND COARSE GRAINS, in mln tonnes --               1986/87            1985/86          04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks  0.49    0.38     0.16   0.16 Production   4.40    4.40     5.67   5.47 Imports       NIL     NIL      NIL    NIL Domes Use    1.57    1.37     1.40   1.30 Exports      3.10    3.30     3.94   3.95 End Stocks   0.22    0.11     0.49   0.38 Reuter
BULGARIA, ROMANIA GRAIN CROP SEEN LESS FAVORABLE Current prospects for this year'sgrain crop in Bulgaria and Romania appear less favorable thanin 1986, the U.S. Agriculture Department's officer in Belgradesaid in a field report.    The report said the assessment was based on travel in thetwo countries from March 30 to April 4.    It said crop conditions were better than earlier expectedfollowing the extreme dry conditions last fall and theprolonged winter temperatures this spring.    However, in general plant development was at least threeweeks or more behind normal this spring, and conditions variedgreatly by regions, the report said.    Fields seeded during the optimum period last fall, andespecially those receiving supplemental irrigation water (about65 pct of the fields observed), appeared to be in goodcondition, with little evidence of winterkill, while othersvaried considerably, the report said.    Fields lacking adequate moisture last fall showed weak anduneven stands. Spotty germination and winterkill in thosefields averaged 10 to 30 pct, it said. Reuter
U.S./SOVIET GRAIN MEETING UNLIKELY THIS SUMMER Prospects appear slim for a summermeeting between U.S. and Soviet officials before the twocountries enter the final year of their bilateral grainsagreement, Agriculture Department officials said.    The two sides usually try to meet as each new year of theagreeement approaches although the last meeting was delayed upto last February. However, any delay this year should notendanger the fifth year of the grains agreement that extendsthrough September, 1988, USDA officials said.    "It will be difficult to pull together the people for themeeting during July," an aide to USDA undersecretary DanielAmstutz said.    Since the last meeting was only around four months ago, thenext talks could still be a "couple more months," he said.       There has been grain industry speculation that the USDAwill offer Moscow another wheat subsidy during the nextmarketing year. But USDA officials said even if consultationswere held soon a subsidy offer would probably not be made.    "I doubt that there would be any subsidy offer this summeror before the next agreement year begins," a USDA source said.    Citing limited subsidy funds and uncertainties about nextyear's crops, he said, "There are too many variables now. Itwould be uncharacteristic of us to make an offer now."    Under the nonbinding pact, Moscow has agreed to purchase aminimum of nine mln tonnes of U.S. grain per year. Soviet andU.S. officials normally meet in the summer before the start ofa new agreement year to discuss grain quality, shippinglogistics and production outlooks. Reuter
SOVIET 1988 GRAIN TARGET INDICATES 1987 OUTPUT Recent announcements from Moscow ofnext year's grain production targets indicate that the Sovietsare estimating this year's grain crop at 205 to 213 mln tonnes,Agriculture Department analysts said.    USDA is projecting the Soviet crop at 210 mln tonnes, butsome earlier estimates from Soviet officials were that the 1987grain crop could match the 1978 record of 237 mln tonnes.    Moscow outlined its economic targets for 1988 on Monday,putting the grain harvest goal at 235 mln tonnes. An analyst ofSoviet agriculture at USDA noted that a recent article inIzvestia said Soviet grain production in 1988 is planned to be"25 to 30 mln tonnes more than expected this year."    "This indicates that their own estimate is for a 205 to 213mln tonne (grain) crop," the analyst said.       In calculating Moscow's crop estimate, USDA used the 235mln tonne production goal, as well as a 238 mln tonne figurepublished in a Soviet economic journal this month.    USDA's production estimate of 210 mln tonnes reflects arange of 207 to 212 mln tonnes, a USDA source said.    Late season rains damaged Soviet crops, slowed harvestprogress and lowered Soviet production, analysts said.    While in the U.S. earlier this month, Soviet agricultureofficial Viktor Nikonov predicted that the grain crop would beas good or better than last year's 210 mln tonne harvest.    A member of Nikonov's party commented that although 230 mlntonnes of grain were in the fields, harvest problems wouldbring the final crop down to around 210 mln tonnes. Reuter
U.S. SENATE PANEL VOTES TO LIMIT COUNTY LOAN RATE  CHANGES STARTING WITH 19 The Supreme Court let stand a rulingthat Northrop Corp <NOC> must pay 31 mln dlrs to a companycontrolled by Saudi businessman Adnan Khashoggi.    The court denied a Northrop appeal challenging a U.S.arbitration tribunal's ruling that it pay 31 mln dlrs incommissions and interest stemming from arms contracts it wonfrom Saudi Arabia in the early 1970s.    Northrop, seeking to sell F-5 fighter aircraft andsupporting services to Saudi Arabia, hired Khashoggi's firm in1970 as its marketing representative.    Northrop paid more than 17 mln dlrs in commissions toKhashoggi's firm, Triad International Marketing, from 1971 to1975. U.S. Defense Department records showed that Northrops'sales to Saudi Arabia during this period totaled 4.2 billiondlrs.    The legal battle dates back to 1979, when Khashoggi beganarbitration proceedings seeking payment of more than 150 mlndlrs in commissions due under his agreement with Northrop.    A federal judge in 1984 threw out the arbitration panel'saward of 31 mln dlrs to Khashoggi's firm, but a U.S. Court ofAppeals reinstated it last March. Reuter
