NYMEX TO SUBMIT PROPANE PROPOSAL TO CFTC The New York Mercantile Exchange expectsto submit a propane futures contract for federal regulatoryapproval within a few days, according to an exchangespokeswoman.    As previously announced, the Board of Governors of theexchange approved the contract last month. The exchange willnow submit the contract to the Commodity Futures TradingCommission, according to the spokeswoman.    Contract specifications will resemble those of heating oiland gasoline futures. The contract size will be 1,000 barrels,or 42,000 U.S. gallons.    The minimum price fluctuation for the propane futurescontract will be  0.01 cent per gallon, or 4.20 dlrs a barrel,according to the exchange.    The maximum daily price limit will be two cts a gallon onall contracts except spot. Trading will terminate on the lastbusiness day of the month preceding the delivery month.    The exchange said delivery will be F.O.B from the seller'spipeline, storage, or fractionation facility in Mont Belvieu,Texas, which has a direct pipeline access to the Texas EasternTransmission Pipeline (TET) in Mont Beliview.    Delivery method will be by in-line or in-well transfer,inter-facility transfer or pumpover, or book transfer andcannot be done earlier than the tenth calendar day of thedelivery month, according to the exchange. Deliveries must becompleted no later than two business days prior to the end ofthe delivery month.    Buyers taking delivery of the propane must pay the sellerby certified check and the deadline for payment is 1200 EST(noon) of the second business day following receipt of thepropane. Reuter
EXXON <XON> CUTS HEATING OIL BARGE PRICE Oil traders in New York said ExxonCorp's Exxon U.S.A. unit reduced the price it charges contractbarge customers for heating oil in New York harbor 0.75 cent agallon, effective today.    They said the reduction brings Exxon's contract barge priceto 43.25 cts. The price decrease follows sharp declines inheating oil prices on spot and futures markets, traders said. Reuter
SUN <SUN> RAISES HEATING OIL BARGE PRICE Sun Co's Sun Refining and Marketingsubsidiary said it increased the price it charges contractbarge customers for heating oil in New York harbor 0.50 cent agallon, effective today.    They said the 0.50 cent increase brings Sun's contractbarge price to 49 cts. The recent price hike represents thefifth this week, totalling 4.75 cts. The increases arefollowing sharp spot and futures price rises, the company said. Reuter
EXXON <XON> RAISES HEATING OIL PRICE, TRADERS Oil traders in the New York area saidExxon Corp's Exxon U.S.A. increased the price it chargescontract barge customers for heating oil in New York harbor by1.5 cts a gallon, effective Saturday, March 7.    They said the increase brought Exxon's contract barge priceto 50 cts a gallon.    Traders said the price hike followed higher spot andfutures market prices for heating oil. Reuter
LCE AND IPE ELECT FIRST TRADED OPTIONS MEMBERS The first 23 members have been elected tothe joint traded options facility of the London CommodityExchange (LCE) and the International Petroleum exchange (IPE),the exchanges said in a statement.    More firms have applied and the final tranche will beadmitted on April one and trading is planned to start in earlyJune on the new trading floor on Commodity Quay.    Traded options need a volatile and liquid futures base tosucceed and chairman of the joint formation committee JackPatterson said the existing LCE cocoa, coffee, sugar and IPEgas oil contracts should have no difficulty in providing this. Reuter
U.S. PRODUCER ENERGY PRICES RISE IN FEBRUARY Prices of wholesale finished energygoods in the United States were up in February, rising by 4.0pct after a 9.8 pct rise in January, the Labor Department said.    The Producer Price Index for finished energy goods hasfallen 20.9 pct in the past 12 months.    Heating oil prices rose 3.0 pct in February after a 18.0pct rise in January, the department said.    Gasoline prices rose by 5.5 pct last month after a 15.7pct January rise, the department said. Natural gas prices rose1.8 pct after a 4.2 pct rise in January.    Energy goods at the intermediate stage of processing rose2.7 pct in February after rising 3.5 pct in January and weredown 16.1 pct over the past 12 months, the Labor Departmentsaid.    Prices for crude energy goods, such as crude oil, coal andgas at the wellhead, rose 2.6 pct last month after a 10.0 pctJanuary rise. They were down 11.6 pct from February 1986, thedepartment said.     At the intermediate stage, liquefied petroleum gas pricesrose 10.1 pct last month after a 5.0 pct January rise and were41.0 pct below prices a year earlier, the department said.    Residual fuel prices rose 16.7 pct in February after a 13.4pct rise a month earlier and were off 17.4 pct in 12 months.    Electric power prices fell 0.3 pct last month, after a 1.3pct January decline, and were down 3.6 pct from a year ago.    Crude oil prices rose 4.4 pct in February, after a 19.7 pctJanuary rise and were off 21.3 pct from the year ago level.    Prices of natural gas at the wellhead rose 1.8 pct inFebruary after rising 4.2 pct a month earlier and were 14.8 pctlower than they were 12 months earlier, the department said.    Coal costs were down 0.3 pct last month after rising 0.4pct in January and were down 0.8 pct from a year ago. Reuter
U.S. HEATING OIL FUTURES UP SHARPLY IN APRIL A supply shortage of number two oil inNew York for prompt delivery boosted the April heating oilcontract on U.S. energy futures, traders said.    Crude oil futures followed but gasoline futures lagged.April heating oil ended 1.24 cts higher to 51.65 cts a gallon,while April crude settled 28 cts higher at 18.64 dlrs.    "The rally was led by spot month heating oil contract,which seemed to move higher because of tigtened promptdeliveries in New York Harbor," said James Ritterbusch, vicepresident at Paine Webber Inc in Chicago.    April gasoline was 0.28 cent higher at 53.15 cts a gallon.    Ritterbusch said the market also found support from areport in the Middle East Economics Survey that said that OPECoil output was down to about 14 mln barrels per day in thesecond week of March.    "There was not a lot of interest to sell the market becauseof belief in OPEC," said Richard Redoglia, a broker withMerrill Lynch Futures Inc.    Redoglia and Ritterbusch said April heating oil couldcontinue to rally above 53 cts a gallon, while crude futurescould test 19 dlrs a barrel before profit-taking stunts themove higher. Reuter
CALTEX RAISES SINGAPORE OIL PRODUCT PRICES Caltex Petroleum Corp, a joint venturebetween Chevron Corp <CHV> and Texaco Inc <TX>, said it raisedposted prices for several petroleum products in Singapore,effective today.     The company said its naphtha posting is up three cts agallon to 43 cts. It said it is raising jet and kerosenepostings 2.5 cts, bringing jet to 52.5 cts and kerosene to 51.5cts.    Diesel grades are up two cts, Caltex said, bringing bothdiesel gas oil (one pct sulfur) and 52-57 D.I. (55 cetane) to52 cts a gallon, and diesel gas oil (0.5 pct) to 52 cts.    The company said it is increasing medium and heavy fuel oilpostings by one dlr a barrel. Medium is now 15.50 dlrs abarrel, and heavy fuel is 14.75 dlrs. Reuter
U.S. ENERGY COSTS ROSE IN FEBRUARY BY 1.9 PCT Consumer energy costs rose 1.9 pctin February following a sharp rise last month, the LaborDepartment said.    The February increase in the overall energy costs,including petroleum, coal and natural gas, followed a 0.2 pctdrop in December and a 3.0 pct rise in January, it said.    Energy prices were 12.2 pct below year-ago levels.    The department's Consumer Price Index showed that the costof gasoline rose in February by 4.2 pct, after a 6.6 pct risein January.    Gasoline prices were nonetheless 18.0 pct below theirlevels as of February 1986.    Also, the category including fuel oil, coal and bottled gasrose in February by 3.8 pct, putting it 14.9 pct under theyear-ago figure.    The index also showed that natural gas and electricity wereunchanged last month, but down 3.5 pct from the February 1986figure, the department said.    The index has been updated  o reflect 1982-84 consumptionpatterns; previously, the index was based on 1972-73 patterns. Reuter
U.S. DISTILLATE, GASOLINE INVENTORIES SEEN LOWER Tonight's American Petroleum Instituteweekly inventory report is expected to show moderate drawdownsin distillates and gasoline stocks for the week ended March 27,analysts and traders said.    They said they expect gasoline stocks to fall three mlnbarrels or less and heating oil inventories to drop between 1.3and four mln barrels.    Some analysts see crude stocks falling by as much as sixmln barrels, while others think they could go up as much as 3.5mln barrels. Crude oil runs are expected to be unchanged fromthe previous week or slightly higher or lower.    For the week ended March 20, the API said gasoline stocksfell 2.7 mln barrels. Mosts analysts expect a modest draw forthe week ended March 27. They said stocks could fall between700,000 and three mln barrels. Some said there is also a chancegasoline stocks will be unchanged.    API said distillate stocks dropped four mln barrels for theweek ended March 20. Analysts and traders generally predict asimilar or smaller depletion for last week. They said stocklevels could drop 1.3 to four mln barrels.    The analysts attribute product stockdraws to seasonalfactors but they said crude direction is harder to call.    Crude inventories rose 8.5 mln barrels in the week endedMarch 20, API said. Analysts are looking for build of between3.5 mln barrels to a six mln barrel draw for the week endedMarch 27.    API reported the amount of refinery capacity utilized upthree pct for the week ended March 20. Analysts saidutilization could have remained unchanged, or rose or fell byless than one pct for the week ended March 27.    Moderate product stockdraws would strengthen the marketslightly, analysts said. But bullish expectations are alreadypartially reflected in today's gains, they added. Reuter
SWEDEN RAISES FUEL TAXES TO FUND DEFENCE SPENDING Sweden announced tax increases onpetrol and heating oil from July 1, 1987 to help finance a 1.7pct rise in defence spending over the next five years.    A Finance Ministry statement said the increase should boostthe price of petrol by 0.13 crowns to an average of 4.21 crownsper litre while light-grade heating oil would go up by 30crowns per cubic metre to an average of 1,665 crowns.    It said oil companies should absorb part of the tax riseinternally and not pass it on to consumers as compensation fora reduction in the stocks that the industry is required to keepfor Sweden's national petroleum reserve. REUTER
SUN <SUN> RAISES HEATING OIL BARGE PRICE Sun Co's Sun Refining and Marketing Cosubsidiary said it raised the price it charges contract bargecustomers for heating oil in ny harbor by 0.50 cent a gallon,effective today.    The 0.50 cent price hike brings Sun's heating oil price to50.75 cts a gallon, the company said. Reuter
NYMEX SCHEDULES START OF HEATING OIL OPTIONS The New York Mercantile Exchange saidoptions on heating oil futures will begin trading June 26.    This would be the second options contract to trade at theexchange. NYMEX introduced crude oil options last November.    "Heating oil options are a logical complement to ourexisting energy complex," said NYMEX Chairman William Bradt.    "From our experience in crude, we fully expect heating oiloptions to offer significant new trading opportunities tocurrent market participants and also draw additional users intothis marketplace," he said.    Six consecutive trading months in heating oil options willbe introduced on June 26, led by the September 1987 contract,according to the exchange.    Strike prices wil be in increments of two cts per gallonand seven strike prices for puts and for calls will beavailable, the exchange said. The middle strike price willcorrespond closely to the settlement price of the previousday's futures close, it said.    Expiration will be on the second Friday of the monthpreceding delivery of the underlying futures contract, it said,meaning that the September options contract would expire August14.    Prices for heating oil options will be quoted in cts pergallon with a minimum fluctuation of 0.01 cent per gallon,NYMEX said.    The options will be based on the underlying futurescontract of 42,000 gallons each. Trading hours will be the sameas heating oil futures, beginning at 0950 EST and ending 1505EST.    NYMEX received approval for heating oil options from theCommodity Futures Trading Commission on September 16, 1986, theexchange said. Reuter
GLOBAL RAISES HEAVY FUELS PRICES global petroleum corp said today itraised the posted cargo prices for number six fuel in the newyork harbor 20 cts to 1.45 dlrs a barrel, effective today.    the increase brings the prices for one pct sulphur to 21.30dlrs, up 20 cts; two pct sulphur 20.85 dlrs, up one dlr; 2.2pct sulphur 20.50, up 1.25 dlrs, and 2.5 pct sulphur 20.25dlrs, up 1.45 dlrs, it said.    prices for 0.3 pct and 0.5 pct sulphur fuels were unchangedat 22.50 and 21.85 dlrs respectively, the company said. Reuter
SUPPLIES, MIDEAST TENSION FUEL GAINS IN OIL Petroleum futures rallied today in amarket that was expecting declines in domestic supplies andbecame further unsettled by escalated Mideast fighting.    Crude oil, gasoline and heating oil all posted gains on theNew York Mercantile Exchange, with crude oil prices matchinglife-of-contract highs. Crude for delivery in May closed 17cents higher at 18.84 dlrs a barrel.    "Crude futures could jump above 19 dlrs a barrel but willnot remain there long if products are not strong," RobertMurphy, account executive at E.F. Hutton, said.    Traders said prices were supported by anticipation that theAmerican Petroleum Institute would report a decline in domesticinventories of petroleum products in a weekly report.    Traders said prices also were supported by an escalation inthe Iran-Iraq war, with the Iranians reportedly launching a newoffensive against Iraqi positions, and Iraq attacking offshoreoil fields and an oil export depot.    Buying by speculators continued to prompt gains in gold andsilver futures on the Commodity Exchange in New York.    Gold prices retreated at midday, but rallied before theclose with support from the silver market, which wasapproaching two-year highs, traders said.    Soybean futures posted strong gains on the Chicago Board ofTrade, while corn and wheat were mostly higher.    Traders said cash sales have been slow in the country, andthe soybean harvest in Brazil has been delayed by rain, whichis limiting supplies.    In addition, the Agriculture Department last week projecteda substantial drop in soybean acreage this year.     Monday'sreport that the USDA inspected 46 mln bushels of corn forexport last week was unexpectedly high and, coupled with a lackof farm sales, provided support for the corn market, traderssaid.    Live hogs and frozen pork bellies rallied on the ChicagoMercantile Exchange, while cattle ended lower.    Live hogs pushed ahead on a lack of supplies because manyfarmers are turning their attention to spring planting ratherthan marketing livestock, traders said, noting that cash saleshave been lighter than expected this week.    The lack of marketing also has supported pork bellies, butprices drifted lower for moderate losses in nearby months asspeculators sold contracts to take profits, traders said.    Cattle prices closed lower but continued to show strengthrelated to tight supplies.    Prices pushed ahead to new contract highs, extending gainspast three-year peaks set Monday, as tight supplies forced meatpackers to bid aggressively for available animals.    However, some traders sold contracts to take profits afterthe extended rally, which has seen the April delivery contractsoar to 69.90 cents a pound from 56 cents a pound at the startof the year.    New York coffee futures closed higher on trade talk Brazilwould not be an aggressive seller near term, analysts said. Reuter
SUN <SUN> CUTS HEATING OIL BARGE PRICE Sun Co's Sun Refining and Marketing Cosubsidiary said it is decreasing the price it charges contractbarge customers for heating oil in ny harbor by 0.50 cent agallon, effective today.    The 0.50 cent a gallon price reduction brings Sun's heatingoil contract barge price to 50 cts a gallon, the company said. Reuter
U.S. ENERGY FUTURES CALLED UNCHANGED TO LOWER Traders expect U.S. energy futures willopen unchanged to slightly lower this morning with support nearyesterday's lows.    Crude futures are called unchanged to five cts weakertracking unchanged domestic crudes and North Sea Brent crude,which traded at 18.01 dlrs a barrel today, about ten cts belowyesterday's New York close.    Traders said the supply squeeze in 15-day forward AprilBrent appears to have ended.    Product futures, which fell sharply yesterday, are due toopen unchanged to 0.25 cent lower, traders said.    Traders expect some followthrough selling in products butsaid gasoil futures in London will probably lend some supportsince they are trading as expected. May gasoil futures were off1.50 dlrs a tonne this morning while June was down 1.25 dlrs inthin conditions. Reuter
ROYAL DUTCH <RD> UNIT TO CUT HEATING OIL PRICE Royal Dutch/Shell's Scallop PetroleumCo subsidiary said it will reduce the price it charges contractbarge customers in New York harbor for heating oil by 2.5 cts agallon, effective tomorrow.    The company said the price cut will bring the contractbarge price for heating oil to 51 cts a gallon. Reuter
EXXON <XON> RAISES HEATING OIL PRICE, TRADERS SAID Oil traders in the New York area saidExxon Corp's Exxon U.S.A. subsidiary increased the price itcharges contract barge customers for heating oil in New Yorkharbor by 0.25 ct a gallon, effective today.    The 0.25 cent price hike brings Exxon's contract bargeprice to 48.75 cts a gallon, traders said. Reuter
EXXON <XON> RAISES HEATING OIL PRICE, TRADERS SAID Oil traders in the New York area saidExxon Corp's Exxon U.S.A. subsidiary raised the price itcharges contract barge customers for heating oil in the NewYork harbor by 0.50 cent a gallon, effective today.    They said the 0.50 cent a gallon increase brings Exxon'scontract barge price to 49.25 cts a gallon. Reuter
EGYPT FUEL PRICE INCREASES PART OF REFORM PACKAGE Egypt has embarked on reforms sought bythe International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank byraising the price of diesel oil and other types of transportfuels.    The energy price increases were the first visible measurestaken in return for IMF standby credits and World Bank loans.    Effective today, fuel oil prices were trebled and prices ofgas oil, diesel and kerosene went up by over 50 pct, anEgyptian General Petroleum Corp (EGPC) official said. He saidfuel oil will sell for 28 Egyptian pounds a ton, instead of 7.5pounds.    Kerosene and gas oil were raised by 66 pct to sell for fivepiasters a litre, while diesel rose 50 pct to 4.5 piasters.    The government is expected also to act soon, possibly asearly as next weekend, to simplify the country's complexexchange rate system, bankers said.    Moving towards a more realistic exchange rate for the poundwas part of a package of reforms sought by the IMF and creditorgovernments. In return, Egypt stands to receive up to onebillion dlrs in IMF standby credits phased over three years tohelp it repay its 38.6 billion dlr foreign debt and guaranteerescheduling by western governments, the main creditors.    Energy price increases were also a condition of progress onWorld Bank project loans of up to 800 mln dlrs in energy,communications and other sectors which have been undernegotiation for several months, western diplomats said.    The U.S. And Western Europe have pledged political backingfor President Hosni Mubarak's government, committed to amulti-party political system and peace with Israel andstrategically poised in control of the Suez Canal.    Fuel price rises, postponed at least once and likely tolead to higher retail prices of basic goods, were a test of thegovernment's resolve to pursue economic reform, diplomats said.    But the new prices are still below world market levels.    There was no announcement of increases in more politicallysensitive products such as gasoline or natural gas, used forcooking, and the mass-circulation Al-Akhbar newspaper said theywould stay the same.    Official comment was not available on speculation amongbankers and diplomats that the Central Bank would soon tinkerwith the pound's exchange rates to try to channel more dollarsinto the banking system away from the illegal but toleratedfree market.    The Central Bank was expected to set up a committee inwhich 10 commercial banks, including the four state-ownedbanks, would decide the pound's value every day.    The official "incentive rate," currently set by the CentralBank daily, is around 1.36 pounds to the dollar, against 2.15on the free market.    Bankers predicted that the banks' committee might set ratesaround 1.80 or 1.90. But some doubted this would serve the aimof curbing the free market. REUTER
HEDGERS INCREASE SHARE OF U.S. CRUDE OIL FUTURES Commercial hedgers increased theirstake in sales of U.S. crude oil and heating oil futures duringMay, according to a U.S. federal agency report.    Trade hedgers accounted for 64.7 pct of open shortpositions in May, compared with 58.2 pct in April, and added5,700 new sales in May, while liquidating almost 11,000purchases, the report said.    Speculators, in contrast, saw a decline in share of crudeoil shorts in May. May spec shorts totaled 13.6 pct versus 25.6pct in April. The report was prepared by the Commodity FuturesTrading Commission.                                        In heating oil futures, commercial users accounted for68.7 pct of short postions in May versus 58.2 pct in April andadded 311 new short positions.    Gasoline futures saw little change in the percentage ofshort or long positions held by commercial users, speculators,or small traders, according to the CFTC report. Trade users accounted for 72.5 pct of short gasoline futures positions inMay, compared with a revised 75.7 pct in April. New York Mercantile Exchange Commitments of traders, May 29, 1987             SPECULATOR   SPREADERS HEDGERS   TOTAL           LONG SHRT LONG SHRT LONG SHRT LONG SHRT HEATING   16.1  5.7 2.5  2.5  49.7 68.7 68.2 76.8  OIL      SMALL TRADERS - long 31.8 short 23.2 UNLEADED  10.8  4.0 7.0  7.0  64.4 72.5 82.3 83.6  GAS      SMALL TRADERS - long 17.7 short 16.4 CRUDE     15.1 13.6 5.5  5.5  61.2 64.7 81.8 83.8  OIL      SMALL TRADERS - long 18.2 short 16.2 Reuter
U.S. COURT UPHOLDS APEX DECISION FAVORING NYMEX The U.S. Court of Appeals for theSecond Circuit upheld a lower court decision dismissing a suitby Apex Oil Co against the New York Mercantile Exchange andseveral oil companies.    The Court, however, ruled that Apex Oil could pursueanititrust and commodities market manipulation allegationsagainst Belcher Oil Co, a unit of Coastal Corp <CGP>.    Apex Oil, primarily a trading company, charged that severalcompanies, including Belcher, and NYMEX conspired to force itto deliver heating oil it had sold on the mercantile exchange,knowing Apex could not make full delivery.       The NYMEX ordered Apex to deliver four mln barrels ofheating oil sold via a February 1982 heating oil contract. Apexeventually fulfilled this obligation but claimed damages.    Richard Wiener, attorney for Apex at Cadwalader Wickershamand Taft, said the company has not yet decided whether topursue its case against Belcher Oil.    The NYMEX, meanwhile, has a counterclaim pending againstApex Oil, seeking an unspecified amount of attorney's fees and15 mln dlrs in punitive damages, according to a NYMEXspokeswoman. Reuter
