AVERAGE YEN CD RATES FALL IN LATEST WEEK Average interest rates on yen certificatesof deposit, CD, fell to 4.27 pct in the week ended February 25from 4.32 pct the previous week, the Bank of Japan said.    New rates (previous in brackets), were -    Average CD rates all banks 4.27 pct (4.32)    Money Market Certificate, MMC, ceiling rates for the weekstarting from March 2          3.52 pct (3.57)    Average CD rates of city, trust and long-term banks    Less than 60 days          4.33 pct (4.32)    60-90 days                 4.13 pct (4.37)    Average CD rates of city, trust and long-term banks    90-120 days             4.35 pct (4.30)    120-150 days            4.38 pct (4.29)    150-180 days            unquoted (unquoted)    180-270 days            3.67 pct (unquoted)    Over 270 days           4.01 pct (unquoted)    Average yen bankers' acceptance rates of city, trust andlong-term banks    30 to less than 60 days unquoted (4.13)    60-90 days              unquoted (unquoted)    90-120 days             unquoted (unquoted) REUTER
JAPAN EXPECTED TO CUT BASE RATE FOR STATE BODIES Japan is expected to cut the base lendingrate for state financial institutions to 5.5 pct from 6.2 aspart of the recent pact by major industrial nations in Paris,Finance Ministry sources said.    They said the cut is based on a revision of the Trust FundBureau Law, which should be approved by parliament on March 3,abolishing the 6.05 pct minimum interest rate on deposits withthe bureau.    The bureau channels funds to government financialinstitutions for public works and other official uses, theysaid.    The base lending rate for state bodies such as the JapanDevelopment Bank, People's Finance Corp and the financecorporations of local public enterprises usually moves intandem with long-term prime rates, the sources said.    However, it was impossible for them to follow the last cut,to 5.8 pct from 6.2 pct on January 28, because the Trust FundBureau rate was legally set at 6.05 pct.    The ministry will abolish the minimum rate and introduce amarket-related one to resolve the problem and stimulate thedomestic economy, they said.    On Tuesday, the ministry allowed long-term bankers to cuttheir prime to a record low of 5.5 pct, effective February 28.The move suggested it had reached agreement with depositorsusing the bureau, the postal savings system of the Posts andTelecommunications Ministry and the Japan welfare annuity ofthe Ministry of Health and Welfare, the sources said.    These ministries are trying to determine which market ratesshould be considered when setting the bureau's deposit rate,the ministry sources said.    Coupon rates on new 10-year government bonds, minus 0.1percentage points, is the likeliest choice, they added. REUTER
ITALIAN TREASURY CUTS INTEREST ON CERTIFICATES The Italian treasury said annual couponrates payable March 1988 on two issues of long-term treasurycertificates (CCTs) would be cut by about four percentagepoints compared with rates this March.    Coupon rates on 10-year certificates maturing March 1995will fall to 9.80 pct from 13.65 pct and rates on 10-yearissues maturing in March 1996 would fall to 10.05 pct from14.30 pct.    The Treasury also cut by 0.60 point six-monthly couponspayable this September on six issues maturing between September1988 and September 1991.    The issues carry terms of between five and seven years andwill have coupon rates of between 4.85 and 5.65 pct inSeptember compared with 5.45 and 6.25 pct this March. REUTER
NEW DUTCH ADVANCES TOTAL 4.8 BILLION GUILDERS The Dutch Central Bank said it hasaccepted bids totalling 4.8 billion guilders at tender for newseven-day special advances at 5.3 pct covering the period March2 to 9 aimed at relieving money market tightness.    Subscriptions to 300 mln guilders were met in full, amountsabove 300 mln at 50 pct.    The new facility replaces old five-day advances worth 8.0billion guilders at the same rate.    Dealers expect this week's money market shortage to bearound 12 billion guilders. Reuter
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 800 MLN STG The Bank of England said it forecast ashortage of around 800 mln stg in the money market today.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturingin official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drainsome 1.61 billion stg.    Partly offsetting this outflow, exchequer transactions anda fall in note circulation will add around 425 mln stg and 360mln stg respectively. In addition, bankers' balances abovetarget will add some 20 mln stg to the system today. REUTER
JAPAN TO PROMOTE INTEREST RATE LIBERALISATION The Bank of Japan decided at a policyboard meeting to promote further interest rate liberalisationby lowering the minimum denomination of regulation-free largedeposits and by raising the interest rate ceiling on moneymarket certificates (MMCs), a central bank official said.    The new guideline will go into effect on April 6, the banksaid.    Under the guideline, the minimum denomination ofregulation-free large deposits will be lowered to 100 mln yenfrom 300 mln.    The interest rate ceiling of MMCs with maturities ofbetween one year and two years will be set at 0.5 percentagepoint below the prevailing certificate of deposit rate, thebank said.    But the ceiling on MMCs with maturities of one year or lesswill remain the same, or 0.75 percentage point below the CDrates.    The minimum denomination of MMCs will be lowered to 10 mlnyen from 30 mln.    The bank also said time deposit rates will be lowered by0.37 point, effective March 16, in line with the half-point cutin the official discount rate on February 23.    New interest rates on two-year and one-year deposits atbanks, for example, will be 3.64 pct and 3.39 pct per annum,respectively.    Demand deposit rates, however, will remain the same. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED DOWN The Bank of England said it revised itsforecast of the shortage in the money market down to around 700mln stg from its original estimate of 800 mln. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET RECEIVES 37 MLN STG ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it had providedthe money market with 37 mln stg assistance in the morningsession. This compares with the Bank's downward revisedestimate of the shortfall in the system today of around 700 mlnstg.    The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprisingfour mln stg in band one at 10-7/8 pct and 33 mln stg in bandtwo at 10-13/16 pct. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED BORROWING FACILTIES The Bank of England said it had offeredborrowing facilities to those discount houses wishing to usethem at 1430 GMT.    The Bank also said it provided the money market 456 mln stgassistance in the afternoon session bringing its total help sofar today to 493 mln stg. This compares with its forecast of ashortage in the system today of around 700 mln stg.    The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprising41 mln stg in band one at 10-7/8 pct 361 mln stg in band two at10-13/16 pct and 54 mln stg in band three at 10-3/4 pct.    Money market dealers said the Bank of England has recentlyused the offer of borrowing facilities to signal that it doesnot want to see an early reduction in U.K. Base lending rates.    The Bank does this by lending to the discount houses atrates of interest higher than its prevailing money marketdealing rates. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO ADD TEMPORARY RESERVES The Federal Reserve is expected toenter the U.S. Government securities market to add temporaryreserves, economists said.    They expect it to supply the reserves indirectly byarranging a fairly large round, two billion dlrs or more, ofcustomer repurchase agreements. The Fed may add the reservesdirectly instead via System repurchases.    Federal funds, which averaged 6.02 pct on Friday, opened at6-1/8 pct and traded between there and 6-1/16 pct. Funds areunder upward pressure from settlement of recently sold two-yearnotes and from a Treasury tax and loan call on banks. Reuter
FED SETS 1.5 BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE,  The New York Stock Exchange said AirgasInc declined to comment on its stock activity after a requestfor an explanation by the exchange.    The company's stock was up 1-1/8 points to 11 dlrs. Reuter
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange 1.5 billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.    Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/16 pct whenthe Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves tothe banking system. Reuter
 MAJOR SWISS BANKS RAISE CUSTOMER TIME DEPOSIT RATES 1/4 POINT TO THREE PCT - CREDI Fisons Plc <FISN.L> said stronginternational growth had been the main feature of the group's1986 progress, with the pharmaceutical division reporting a 50pct increase in U.S. Sales during the period.    The rise was due to a sustained marketing programme, alarger sales force and the introduction of an aerosol form ofits Intal anti-asthma drug, which pushed U.S. Sales up 70 pct.    The company was commenting on 1986 results which sawpre-tax profits rising to 85.1 mln stg from 72.3 mln in 1985.The result was in line with market forecasts, but its sharesnevertheless eased in a falling market to 634p at 0857 GMT from643p.    Fisons said the potential for future growth of Intral, aswell as its Opticrom and Nasalcrom products, was clearlyindicated by a strong 1986 performance.    The scientific equipment business had raised the proportionof high technology products it manufactures and also raised itsability to generate higher margins. The horticulture operationshad demonstrated outstanding marketing ability. Underlying cashflow from all three operations had been positive despite a fullprogramme of capital investment.    Action to protect the group against foreign currencymovements resulted in a small net gain to profits. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 350 MLN STG The Bank of England said it forecast ashortage of around 350 mln stg in the money market today.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturingin official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drainsome 525 mln stg while bankers' balnces below target will takeout around 175 mln stg.    Partly offsetting these outflows, exchequer transactionsand a fall in note circulation will add some 300 mln stg and 40mln stg to the system respectively. REUTER
NO BUNDESBANK POLICY CHANGES EXPECTED THURSDAY The Bundesbank is unlikely to changeits credit policies at its central bank council meeting onThursday, as exchange rates and short-term interest rates havestabilized over the past few weeks, money market dealers said.    Attention in the money market is focused on tomorrow'stender for a securities repurchase pact, from which funds willbe credited on Thursday, when an earlier pact expires, draining16 billion marks from the system.    The tender was announced last Friday, because carnivalfestivities closed banks in Duesseldorf yesterday, and willclose banks here this afternoon.    Because of the disruption to business from carnival,minimum reserve figures for the start of the month areunrealistic, making it difficult for banks to assess theirneeds at the tender.    Dealers said the Bundesbank would want to inject enoughliquidity in this week's pact to keep short-term rates down.    But because of uncertainty about banks' current holdings,the Bundesbank may well allocate less than 16 billion marksthis week, and top it up if necessary at next week's tender.    "I would not be surprised if the Bundesbank cuts the amounta little, to say 14 or 15 billion marks," one dealer said.    "They would then stock it up at the next tender when theneed is clearer," he added.    An earlier pact expires next week, draining 8.5 billionmarks from the system. Banks also face a heavy but temporarydrain this month from a major tax deadline for customers.    Banks held 52.0 billion marks on February 27 at theBundesbank, averaging 51.0 billion over the whole month, justclear of the 50.5 billion February reserve requirement.    Call money traded today at 3.85/95 pct, up from 3.80/90yesterday. REUTER
NO BUNDESBANK POLICY CHANGES EXPECTED THURSDAY The Bundesbank is unlikely to changeits credit policies at its central bank council meeting onThursday, as exchange rates and short-term interest rates havestabilized over the past few weeks, money market dealers said.    Attention in the money market is focused on tomorrow'stender for a securities repurchase pact, from which funds willbe credited on Thursday, when an earlier pact expires, draining16 billion marks from the system.    The tender was announced last Friday, because carnivalfestivities closed banks in Duesseldorf yesterday, and willclose banks here this afternoon.    Because of the disruption to business from carnival,minimum reserve figures for the start of the month areunrealistic, making it difficult for banks to assess theirneeds at the tender.    Dealers said the Bundesbank would want to inject enoughliquidity in this week's pact to keep short-term rates down.    But because of uncertainty about banks' current holdings,the Bundesbank may well allocate less than 16 billion marksthis week, and top it up if necessary at next week's tender.    "I would not be surprised if the Bundesbank cuts the amounta little, to say 14 or 15 billion marks," one dealer said.    "They would then stock it up at the next tender when theneed is clearer," he added.    An earlier pact expires next week, draining 8.5 billionmarks from the system. Banks also face a heavy but temporarydrain this month from a major tax deadline for customers.    Banks held 52.0 billion marks on February 27 at theBundesbank, averaging 51.0 billion over the whole month, justclear of the 50.5 billion February reserve requirement.    Call money traded today at 3.85/95 pct, up from 3.80/90yesterday. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED UP The Bank of England said it revised upits forecast of the shortage in the money market today toaround 500 mln stg from its initial estimate of 350 mln. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 24 MLN STG ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it provided 24mln stg help to the money market in the morning session.    This compares with the bank's upward revised shortageforecast of around 500 mln stg.    The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprisingtwo mln stg in band one at 10-7/8 pct and 22 mln stg in bandtwo at 10-13/16 pct. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED DOWN The Bank of England said it had revisedits forecast of the shortage in the money market down to 450mln stg before taking account of its morning operations. Atnoon the bank had estimated the shortfall at 500 mln stg. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 437 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it had provided themoney market with a further 437 mln stg assistance in theafternoon session. This brings the Bank's total help so fartoday to 461 mln stg and compares with its revised shortageforecast of 450 mln stg.    The central bank made purchases of bank bills outrightcomprising 120 mln stg in band one at 10-7/8 pct and 315 mlnstg in band two at 10-13/16 pct.    In addition, it also bought two mln stg of treasury billsin band two at 10-13/16 pct. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO ADD TEMPORARY RESERVES The Federal Reserve is expected toenter the U.S. Government securities market to add temporaryreserves, economists said.    They expect it to supply the reserves indirectly byarranging 1.5 to two billion dlrs of customer repurchaseagreements. The Fed may add the reserves directly instead viaSystem repurchases.    Federal funds, which averaged 6.18 pct yesterday, opened at6-3/16 pct and stayed there in early trading. Analysts said therate is under upward pressure partly from settlement of 8.25billion dlrs of five-year Treasury notes. Reuter
DUTCH MONEY MARKET DEBT BARELY CHANGED IN WEEK Loans and advances from the Dutchcentral bank to the commercial banks were barely changed at12.9 billion guilders in the week up to and including March 2,the central bank weekly return showed.    The Treasury's account with the bank dropped 1.3 billionguilders. Dealers said a larger amount of funds in the form ofinterest and repayments on state loans went out than came inthe form of tax payments to the state.    Notes in circulation rose 360 mln to 27.7 billion as thepublic withdrew cash to celebrate this week's Carnival festivalor take an end-of-winter holiday break, dealers said.    Current money market rates are at 5-3/4 to 6-1/4 pct forcall money against 5-1/4 to 5-3/8 a week ago, and between5-5/16 and 5-9/16 pct against 5-1/4 to 5-1/2 for one to 12month periods, dealers said.    The cause for the rise was a rather tight 4.8 billionguilders of special advances set by the Bank yesterday comparedwith 8.0 billion guilders for the previous set, dealers added.    They expect the money market shortage to continue around 12billion guilders this week.    The weekly return showed total Dutch gold and currencyreserves rose 11.3 mln guilders to 56.0 billion guilders. REUTER
FED SETS 1.5 BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE,  Chrysler Corp said its February U.S. carproduction was 110,552 compared with 123,092 a year ago.    The number three automaker said U.S. truck productiontotalled 21,177 compared with nine last year. The figuresexclude Canadian truck production, much of which is sold toU.S. dealers.    Year-to-date, Chrysler said car output declined to 216,987from 257,941 and U.S. truck production totalled 39,834 comparedwith none a year ago.    Reuter
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange 1.5 billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.    Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-1/4 pct whenthe Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves tothe banking system. Reuter
SWISS MONEY MARKET PAPER YIELDS 3.286 PCT The Swiss Federal Government's new seriesof six-month money market certificates raised 177.5 mln Swissfrancs at an issue price of 98.401 pct to give an averageannual yield of 3.286 pct, the National Bank said.    Payment date is March 5.    The last series of six-month paper issued in January raised159.6 mln francs at 98.392 pct to give an average yield of3.251 pct. REUTER
SWAP DEALERS UNVEIL STANDARD CONTRACT The International Swap DealersAssociation has developed the first standard form contract foruse by arrangers of currency and interest rate swaptransactions, said Thomas Jasper, the Association'sco-chairman.    The contract, unveiled at a press conference , is expectedto make the 300 billion dlr a year swap market more efficient,he said. "The contracts wil accelerate the process and reducethe expense of swap documentation," Japsper said.    Privately, eurobond traders estimate that about 80 pct ofall new issues eventually become part of either an interestrate or currency swap.    An interest rate swap occurs when two issuers, usuallyacting through a bank middleman, agree to accept each other'sinterest payments on debt securities. Usually, the issuer of afloating rate debt security swaps into fixed-rate debt and viceversa. But the obligation for repayment of the debt remainswith the original borrower.    Bank regulators have become concerned about the use ofswaps because the middleman, usually a bank, takes on someportion of the risk but is not required to show it on thebalance sheet as a liability and may not have sufficientcapital to cushion it.    Kenneth McCormick, a co-chairman of the ISDA and presidentof Kleinwort Benson Cross Financing Inc, said the Bank ofEngland and the U.S. Federal Reserve Board were expected latertoday to announce joint proposals for setting minimum capitalstandards for counterparties in swaps.    The standards are part of the recently announcedconvergence agreement between the two countries in whichregulators have attempted to set similar capital requirementsfor institutions.    McCormick told reporters the ISDA was concerned that a"level playing field" be maintained in the swaps market.    He said if U.K. And U.S. Banks were required to hold moreprimary capital against swap transactions than is the currentpractice, the additional costs would have to be passed on toissuers.    The issuers might then choose to do business withlower-cost banks which are not subject to U.S. Or U.K. Bankingrules.    He said the ISDA had been working on a code of conduct forswap dealers as part of its self-regulatory effort.    That code should be completed within the next few weeks, hesaid. REUTER
GM'S <GM> PONTIAC HAS INTEREST RATE INCENTIVES General Motors Corp said itsPontiac Division has established an interest rate supportincentive program, effective immediately, as an alternative toits current option bonus program.    The company said qualified buyers of Pontiacs may nowselect special finance rates of 3.9 pct on 24-month contracts,7.9 pct on 36-month contracts, 8.9 pct on 48-mopnth contractsor 9.9 pct on 60-month contracts.  The program is scheduled toexpire April 30.    Under the option bonus program, which is also scheduled toexpire April 30, buyers receive cash bonuses on the purchase ofPontiacs equipped with option group packages, with the amountdepending on the option level on each vehicle.    The company said the special interst rate program appliesto ann new 1986 and 1987 Pontiacs sold from dealer stock anddelivered to customers during the program period.  A customermay choose only one program, it said. Reuter
FED EXPECTED TO ADD TEMPORARY RESERVES The Federal Reserve is expected toenter the U.S. Government securities market to add temporaryreserves, economists said.    They expect it to supply the reserves indirectly byarranging around 1.5 of customer repurchase agreements.    Federal funds, which averaged 6.22 pct yesterday, opened atsix pct and remained there in early trading. Reuter
FED DRAFTS CURRENCY, RATE SWAP RISK GAUGE The Federal Reserve Board votedunanimously to propose a formula for calculating the risk ofinterest rate and currency swaps as part of its ongoing effortto come up with a new capital standard for U.S. banks thattakes into account the riskiness of a bank's loans and otherassets.    Fed officials said an identical proposal was being issuestoday by the Bank of England.    The Fed set a 60-day period for public comment on the plan.    The proposal adopted today addresses only the credit risksassociated with interest rate swaps, forward foreign exchangecontracts and similar financial instruments.    Previously, the Fed Jan. 8 proposed a series of guidelinesfor calculating the risk of other off-balance-sheet activitiesthat banks would be required to take into account incalculating the minimum financial cushion they would need tomaintain.    Both guidelines set five broad categories of risk for loansand other bank assets and assigned to each a level of risk thatwould establish a bank's minimum capital needs.    The additional guidelines proposed today would determinethe amount of capital support required for a bank's currentexposure for a given asset and the potential future exposure.    The current exposure would be measured by themark-to-market value of the asset, which would reflect thereplacement cost.    Potential future increases in the replacement cost would becalculated using credit conversion factors based on statisticalanalyses by the staffs of the Bank of England and U.S. bankingregulators. Future exposure would rise over the life of theasset.    The Fed staff said the risk gauge attempted to balanceconflicting needs for precision and simplicity.    They ignore, for example, the relative volatility of theparticular currencies involved in exchange rate contracts.    Board officials said the new gauge could increase thecapital required of the largest money center banks, which arethe principal participants in these types of activities.    They cautioned the Fed board to take account of thepotential impact of the plan on the ability of U.S. banks tocompete in world financial markets.    However, the staff concluded, "The credit risks inherent insuch contracts now constitute a significant element of the riskprofiles of some banking organizations."    The Fed proposal would exempt all but the 20-25 largestparticipants in this market, on grounds the benefits ofincluding the smaller banks would be outweighed by costs.    Also excluded would be interest rate and foreign exchangecontracts traded on organized exchanges.    Governor Martha Seger said she was concerned that Japan wasnot involved in the U.K.-U.S. effort to draft new capitalrules. Reuter
U.S., BRITAIN AGREE FURTHER BANK CAPITAL PROPOSALS The Bank of England and the U.S. FederalReserve Board have agreed new proposals for joint standards tomeasure the risk of an array of credit exposures that do notshow up in bank balance sheets, the Bank of England said.    The plan, covering swaps, forward contracts and optionsinvolving interest or exchange rates, complements proposalsagreed in January between the two central banks to makecommercial banks in the U.S. And Britain subject to similarstandards for measuring capital adequacy, the proposal said.    It said no final decisions had been reached yet and bankshave until April 16 to comment on the trunk proposals.    The Bank of England and Fed said they had faced a dilemma.    "On the one hand (we) are determined to require adequatecapital support for potential future exposure -- on the otherhand (we) are concerned that overly stringent capitalrequirements might unnecessarily affect the ability of U.S. AndU.K. Banking organisations to price...Contracts competitively."     At the basis of the new proposals lies the concept of theso-called credit equivalent amount - the current value of acurrency or interest rate contract and an estimate of itspotential change in value due to currency or interest ratefluctuations until the contract matures.    In treatment similar to that agreed in January for balancesheet assets, the credit equivalent will be assigned one offive risk weights between zero and 100 pct, depending on thequality of the counterparty, the remaining maturity of thecontract and on collaterals or guarantees to the contract, theplans showed.    The proposal showed that collaterals and guarantees wouldnot be recognised in calculating credit equivalent amounts.    They would, however, be reflected in the assignment of riskweights. The only guarantees recognised are those given by U.S.And U.K. Governments or, in the U.S., By domestic nationalgovernment agencies, the proposals showed.    The paper said the proposed rules would not cover spotforeign exchange contracts and securities traded in futures andoptions exchanges.    It said U.S. Regulatory authorities and the Bank of Englandwere keen to encourage banks to "net" contracts -- consolidatemultiple contracts with the same counterparty into one singleagreement to create one single payments stream.    It recognised that "such arrangements may in certaincircumstances reduce credit risk and wish to encourage theirfurther development and implementation," and said some of thecurrent proposals may be changed to take this into account.    The paper said the proposed rules would not cover spotforeign exchange contracts and securities traded in futures andoptions exchanges.    It said U.S. Regulatory authorities and the Bank of Englandwere keen to encourage banks to "net" contracts -- consolidatemultiple contracts with the same counterparty into one singleagreement to create one single payments stream.    It recognised that "such arrangements may in certaincircumstances reduce credit risk and wish to encourage theirfurther development and implementation," and said some of thecurrent proposals may be changed to take this into account. Reuter
NEW BANK RULES TOUGHER THAN NEEDED, DEALERS SAY U.S. and U.K. bank regulators are askingbanks to set aside more reserves than is necessary to cushionthem against the risks posed by the interest rate and currencyswap transactions they carry, swap dealers said.    After viewing proposed guidelines released jointly today bythe Bank of England and the Federal Reserve Board, dealers saidthat in effect, regulators are asking them to set asidereserves twice for the same risk.    Market participants will have 60 days to respond to theproposals.    Adoption of stiffer capital requirements is especiallysignificant in the eurobond markets, which saw new issue volumeof about 183 billion dlrs in 1986 according to figures compiledby Euromoney magazine. While no firm figures exist, dealers ineurobonds estimate that 80 pct of all new issues are involvedin some swap arrangement. Separately, the ISDA estimates thatabout 300 billion dlrs worth of swap transactions areoutstanding. Kenneth McCormick, co-chairman of theInternational Swap Dealers Association (ISDA) and President ofKleinwort Benson Cross Financing Inc, said that the Associationhas no comment and will study the proposals.    "What they are proposing is really double counting," Patrickde Saint-Aignan, managing director of swaps for Morgan Stanleyand Co, said. Instead, he argues, banks should either berequired to hold a percentage of the face value -- say one pctper year to maturity -- or to hold a percentage of the cost ofreplacing the contract in the event of a counterparty default.    "The potential risk factors are very large relative to whatwe had expected," said a director at one U.K. merchant bank."What they are really doing is asking you to capitalize now --to borrow money now -- to cushion you against risk you mighthave 10 years from now," he added.(Adds title first paragraph).    Dealers also said they believe that banks not covered bythe agreement, such as those based in Japan, will have acompetitive advantage because they will not have to pass thecosts on to customers.    Indeed, regulators are apparently also concerned about theexclusion of other countries from the new requirements. FederalReserve Board Governor Martha Seger, following approval of theproposed guidelines by the Fed, said she is concerned thatJapan was not involved in the U.K.-U.S. effort to draft newcapital rules.     Dealers said they were somewhat relieved to see that bankregulators recognized the concept of netting, that is,offsetting the amounts receiveable from and payable to a singlecounterparty against each other.    The paper said that regulatory authorities "recognize thatsuch arrangements (netting) may in certain circumstances reducecredit risk." Furthermore, the paper said, if a nettingagreement could be reached that would withstand legal tests, itmight be willing to reduce capital requirements accordingly.    But dealers said they fear regulators may insist on anairtight netting agreement that is impossible to design.     "One problem is that there has never been a major defaultin the swaps market. So we don't know if any of the swaparrangements will really stand up in court," said one bankofficial. Reuter
U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it had invitedan early round of bill offers from the discount houses. TheBank forecast the shortage in the system today at around 1.15billion stg.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturingin official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drainsome 732 mln stg and exchequer transactions some 245 mln. Inaddition, bankers' balances below target and a rise in notecirculation will drain a further 135 mln stg and 30 mln stgrespectively. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 17 MLN STG EARLY HELP The Bank of England said it provided just17 mln stg assistance to the money market in response to anearly round of bill offers.    Earlier, the Bank had estimated the shortage in the systemtoday at around 1.15 billion stg.    The central bank purchased bills for resale to the marketon April 2 at an interest rate of 10-15/16 pct. REUTER
FRENCH INTERVENTION RATE CUT LIKELY, DEALERS SAY The Bank of France is likely to cut itsmoney market intervention rate by up to a quarter point at thestart of next week.  This follows a steady decline in the callmoney rate over the past 10 days and signals from the FinanceMinistry that the time is ripe for a fall, dealers said.    The call money rate peaked at just above nine pct ahead ofthe meeting of finance ministers from the Group of Fiveindustrial countries and Canada on February 22, which restoredconsiderable stability to foreign exchanges after several weeksof turbulence.    The call money rate dropped to around 8-3/8 pct on February23, the day after the Paris accord, and then edged steadilydown to eight pct on February 27 and 7-3/4 pct on March 3,where it has now stabilised.    Dealers said the Bank of France intervened to absorbliquidity to hold the rate at 7-3/4 pct.    While call money has dropped by well over a percentagepoint, the Bank of France's money market intervention rate hasremained unchanged since January 2, when it was raised to eightpct from 7-1/4 pct in a bid to stop a franc slide.    The seven-day repurchase rate has also been unchanged at8-3/4 since it was raised by a half-point on January 5.    The Bank of France has begun using the seven-day repurchaserate to set an upper indicator for money market rates, whileusing the intervention rate to set the floor.    Sources close to Finance Minister Edouard Balladur saidthat he would be happy to see an interest rate cut, and dealerssaid any fall in the intervention rate was most likely to comewhen the Bank of France buys first category paper next Monday,although an earlier cut could not be excluded.   A cut in the seven-day repurchase rate could come as earlyas tomorrow morning, banking sources said.    They said recent high interest rates have encouraged anacceleration in foreign funds returning to France, discouragingthe authorities from making a hasty rate cut. But they alsopointed out that money supply is broadly back on target, givingscope for a small fall in rates.    M-3 money supply, the government's key aggregate, finished1986 within the government's three to five pct growth target,rising 4.6 pct compared with seven pct in 1985. REUTER
BUNDESBANK LEAVES CREDIT POLICIES UNCHANGED The Bundesbank left credit policiesunchanged after today's regular meeting of its council, aspokesman said in answer to enquiries.    The West German discount rate remains at 3.0 pct, and theLombard emergency financing rate at 5.0 pct. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER SMALL ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it provided themoney market with a further 20 mln stg of assistance during themorning. It again bought bills for resale to the market onApril 2 at a rate of 10-15/16 pct. Earlier this morning, itbought 17 mln stg of bills at the same rate and for resale onthe same date.    The Bank has thus given a total of 37 mln stg so far today,which leaves the bulk of a 1.15 billion stg shortage still inthe system. Dealers noted that money market rates again easedthis morning and the Bank may have refused bill offers from thediscount houses at rates below its established dealing levels. REUTER
SWISS OFFERS NEW SERIES OF MONEY MARKET PAPER The Swiss Finance Ministry is invitingtenders for a new series of three-month money marketcertificates to raise about 150 mln Swiss francs, the SwissNational Bank said.    Bids would be due on March 10 and payment on March 12.    The last issue of three-month paper conducted on February12 yielded 2.969 pct. REUTER
SPAIN DEREGULATES BANK DEPOSIT INTEREST RATES Spain's Finance Ministry deregulated bankdeposit rates in an effort to raise competition among banks andbring legislation into line with the European Community (EC), aministry spokesman said.    The measure was published today in the Official StateGazette. It takes effect tomorrow and lifts restrictions onrates, now limited to six pct on deposits of up to 180 days.    The government also enacted a decree cutting to one pctfrom 13 pct the proportion of total assets which banks mustlend at favourable rates to industries classified "of publicinterest."    Some bankers expect the deregulation of rates to result ina 20 pct drop in profits this year.    Secretary of State for the Economy Guillermo de la Dehesatold Reuters in a recent interview the reduction in fixed assetinvestments would offset losses from the rate liberalisation. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN HELP, OFFERED FACILITIES The Bank of England said it had given themoney market 206 mln stg of assistance this afternoon andoffered the discount houses borrowing facilities to take outthe rest of the 1.10 billion stg shortage, revised down from aninitial 1.15 billion estimate.    It made no alteration to its established dealing rates,buying 95 mln stg of band one bank bills at 10-7/8 pct and 111mln of band two bank bills at 10-13/16 pct. This brings theBank's total assistance so far today to 243 mln stg. REUTER
BANKERS WELCOME SPANISH RESERVE REQUIREMENT HIKE Bankers welcomed the Bank of Spain'sdecision to raise the reserve requirement for banks and savingsbanks, saying it reflected the socialist government'sdetermination not to ease up in the fight against inflationdespite the painful social effects of four years of austerity.    The central bank last night raised the requirement by onepercentage point to 19 pct from March 13, saying that excessliquidity threatened money supply and inflation targets.    Bankers said the move represented a change of tactic by theBank, which until now has relied on raising interest rates tochoke off money supply growth.    "I think it's a good measure," a senior foreign banker said."It's a faster way to get the job done than using interest ratesand avoids unpleasant effects on other areas of the economy."    "It shows that the political will is very strong. They knowthat controlling inflation will make industry more competitiveand bring down unemployment in the long run," he added.    The head of another foreign bank said that only a monthago, the Bank of Spain had dismissed his suggestion of a risein reserve requirements, preferring to pursue its strategy ofraising interest rates.    But bankers said the high real interest rates on offer now-- around eight pct for overnight funds -- was attracting moneyfrom abroad, strengthening the peseta and making Spanishexports less competitive.    The government says industry's competitiveness is alsobeing hit hard by inflation. At 8.3 pct last year, the rate wasway above that of Spain's major trading partners in theEuropean Community, which it joined a year ago.    To help meet this year's target of five pct, it isinsisting pay rises stay at that level, setting the stage forclashes with trade unions, who say they have made enoughsacrifices.    Demonstrations by workers, students and farmers, whosedemands essentially involve more government spending, havebecome an almost daily occurrence. But Prime Minister FelipeGonzalez insists that the state is doing as much as it can.    Bankers said the reserve requirement increase could havesome impact on commercial lending rates but should not hit themoney market too hard.    The Bank of Spain, which only yesterday raised its keyovernight call money rate to 13.5 pct, left it unchanged attoday's auction. The rate has been increased nine times sincethe start of the year, when it was below 12 pct.    Bankers said commercial lending rates were set to rise inany case with the end of the six pct maximium interest ratebanks can offer for time deposits of up to six months.    The measure will take effect tomorrow, following thepublication of the decree in today's official gazette. Bankerssay the liberalisation will increase the cost of funds and,inevitably, push lending rates higher.    A companion measure, reducing the proportion of funds whichbanks must invest in specific areas, also takes effecttomorrow. Officials said when the cut was approved last monththat it was aimed partly at compensating banks for higherinterest rates. REUTER
FED NOT EXPECTED TO TAKE MONEY MARKET ACTION The Federal Reserve is not expected tointervene in the U.S. government securities market to add ordrain reserves, economists said.    Most economists said they did not expect the Fed to addreserves with Federal funds trading below six pct.    They said the funds rate's softer tone may indicate thatthe need to add reserves in the current bank reservemaintenance period is smaller than previously estimated.    Fed funds opened at 5-15/16 pct and remained at that level.Yesterday funds averaged 6.01 pct. Reuter
BANK OF ENGLAND RESISTS PRESSURE FOR RATE CUT The Bank of England again fought againstmoney and bond market pressure for a pre-Budget interest ratecut, leaving the pound to take the strain with a further risein its trade-weighted index to a six-month high.    It closed at its best level since September 12, at 71.4 pctof its 1975 value on the index, as foreign investors continuedto buy into a currency which offers high relative returns andthe possibility of short-term capital gains, dealers said.    Meanwhile, opinion is divided over whether the Bank canstop a cut before Budget Day, March 17, and why it should wantto.    The Bank's latest strong signal to the market that it wantsrates to stay steady for the moment came in midafternoon, whenit lent to the discount houses at a penal rate of 11-3/4 pct torelieve a money market shortage.    "They're really making the discount houses suffer," saidStephen Lewis, economist at brokerage house Phillips and Drew."Eleven and three-quarters pct is way above money market rates."    This money market signal was apparently not accompanied byany sterling sales on the foreign exchanges, talk of which hadinhibited strong rises yesterday and Tuesday, so buyers camestrongly into the pound.    The pound surged to a high of 1.5798/808 dlrs at the Londonclose, up from the previous finish at 1.5650/60, and 2.8900/60marks, up from 2.8720/50.    "If this pressure keeps up...There is a possibility thatrates could drop before the Budget," said Jeremy Hale, economistat finance house Goldman Sachs International Corp.    Some gilt traders are forecasting a half-point cut in thebase rate from the current 11 pct as early as tomorrow.    However, analysts said the Bank of England will need to beconvinced that the present rise is a fundamental re-ratingrather than a result of short-term speculative gains.    There are valid reasons for the Bank to be cautious, saidPeter Fellner, U.K. Economist at brokers James Capel and Co.    Markets have become highly optimistic about the chances ofa Conservative Party victory in any early general election, anddisappointment if Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher decides tohold back could lead to a decline in the pound and a setbackfor bonds, Fellner said.    An election could be delayed until mid-1988, but mostforecasts say it will be this year.    Others note that the pound could yet prove vulnerable tooil price losses or a change of fortune for the dollar.    However, analysts agree the Bank is largely trying to setthe timing of a cut than holding out against one altogether.    The authorities traditionally prefer a single sustainablerate move, one way or the other, to half points here and there.    Some add the Bank will be influenced by signs that at leasta proportion of the latest bout of sterling buying is long-termcapital coming into the London market, notably from Japan.    They argue that the pound is being perceived as a safer betthan the dollar, given the latters recent sharp falls andcurrent political upheavals in Washington.    The Bank may want to see another few points on thetrade-weighted index before the Budget, argued Lewis. "But bythen sterling should be firm enough to satisfy even the Bank ofEngland," he added.    The Bank declined to comment on its reasons for resistingpressure for a rate move before the budget, but banking sourcessaid the authorities see the recent rise in sterling as morethan just marking up by foreign exchange traders.    Meanwhile, analysts noted the market ignored potentiallyharmful news on the trade front, today's figures showing thatthe current account deficit in 1986 was 1.1 billion stg.    This was above previous estimates of the current accountdeficit and compares with a surplus of 2.9 billion stg in 1985.    Fellner said that under more normal conditions this wouldhave given the bond and currency markets a pause, but that theywere too bullish to worry about such fundamentals.    The guessing game over the timing of a cut has the clearingbanks divided as well as the markets. Privately, some bankofficials forecast the Bank will hold out at least for thisweek, but at least one bank says a rise is possible tomorrow.If a move comes before March 17, forecasts are for a half-pointcut, with another half or full point about Budget day. REUTER
FED'S JOHNSON SAYS HE DOES NOT SEE INCREASING PRESSURE ON INTERE Australia accused the U.S. of increasingprotectionism on agricultural products and called for an end toWashington's special 32-year exemption from certain GATT ruleson agricultural trade.    Robert Arnott, Australia's delegate to the GeneralAgreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), made the appeal at aspecial annual meeting which reviews the 1955 U.S. waiver.    "Australia today said the United States' goals of reducingU.S. barriers to agricultural trade were being contradicted byactions which in fact increased protection in trade inagriculture," the Australian delegation said in a statement.    "The United States section 22 waiver is one of the basicflaws in the GATT coverage of agriculture," Arnott told themeeting.    Arnott said the waiver had continually been used as ajustification for "dubious protective measures" by the U.S. Helisted a recent Dairy Export Incentive Program and steps toclose the U.S. sugar market to imports.    He also told Reuters the waiver allowed Washington toimpose quotas on imports of farm products where it had domesticsupport programs. This covered imports of dairy products,peanuts, cotton and sugar.    Asked to comment, Michael Samuels, U.S. ambassador to theGATT, told Reuters: "These charges have been made since the verybeginning. The waiver is part of domestic U.S. agriculturalpolicy, part of our law when we joined the GATT".    "We have agreed to put the waiver on the table during theUruguay Round and invite other countries to do the same withtheir programs. We can negotiate them all," Samuels added.    Ninety-two nations are taking part in the four-year Uruguayround of talks launched in Punta del Este last September.Bargaining in agricultural goods and services (banking,tourism, insurance) is included for the first time as well asmanufactured goods. Reuter
U.K. MONEY MARKET GETS 350 MLN STG AFTERNOON HELP The Bank of England said it providedassistance worth 350 mln stg during the afternoon session whichtakes total help so far today to 446 mln stg against a shortageestimated at around 550 mln stg.    The central bank purchased outright bank bills comprising120 mln stg in band one at 10-7/8 pct and 227 mln stg in bandtwo at 10-13/16 pct. It also bought treasury bills worth onemln stg in band one and two mln stg in band two at the samerates of interest as bank bills. REUTER
FED NOT EXPECTED TO ACT IN MONEY MARKETS The Federal Reserve is unlikely tooperate in the U.S. government securities market during itsusual intervention period this morning, economists said.    Fed funds opened comfortably at 5-15/16 pct and remained atthat level. Yesterday Fed funds averaged 5.99 pct. Reuter
FED SETS ONE BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE,  Genentech Inc said it fileda suit against the Food and Drug Administration in the U.S.District Court for the District of Columbia over an unresolvedissue relating to genetically engineered human growth hormone.    At issue, said Genentech, is whether Eli Lilly and Co's<ELI> recombinant human growth hormone and its new recombinantgrowth hormone, are the same drug. Both drugs are under reviewby the FDA.    Since 1985, Genentech has been marketing Protropin, arecombinant human growth hormone for treating abnormally shortchildren.    The biotechnology concern said it has the right to sevenyears of exclusive marketing for Protropin, granted orphan drugstatus by the FDA. Orphan drugs are a special category of drugsthat are used to treat rare diseases.    Genentech said the suit seeks clarification of whatconstitutes a drug under the standards of the orphan Drug Act.It suggested that without the "clarification," companies thatdevelop orphan drugs may not recover development costs duringthe period of marketing exclusivity.    It said Lilly's growth hormone and its new growth hormonediffer slightly, and are produced by different processes. Reuter
FED SETS ONE BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPO The Federal Reserve entered thegovernment securities market to arrange one billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a spokesman for the New YorkFed said.    Fed funds were trading at 5-15/16 pct at the time of theindirect injection of temporary reserves, dealers said. Reuter
FRENCH PRIMARY BOND MARKET SHOWS NEW SPARKLE The French primary bond market is showingsigns of renewed effervescence after several weeks of lethargyand the trend is expected to continue if hopes of imminentinterest rate cuts are fulfilled, market operators said.    The Bank of France is generally expected to give a signalto the market, possibly at the beginning of next week, byannouncing a quarter point cut in its intervention rate, whichhas stood at eight pct since January 2, or in its seven-dayrepurchase rate, set at 8-3/4 pct since January 5.    The central bank's averaged-out day to day call money rate,the reference rate for interbank money market operators, whichreached 8-3/4 pct on February 18 has fallen to 7-3/4 pct thisweek, dealers noted.    The Bank of France's "open market" policy to regulate themoney markets since December has been based on a floor andceiling of rates within the limits of its intervention andseven day repurchase rates.    For the moment the sentiment is of "wait and see" on ratecuts, but there are now more optimists than pessimists amongmarket operators, a dealer for a major French bank said.    Dealers said there is abundant liquidity on the bondmarket, noting that this week's monthly Treasury tap issue of11.87 billion francs had a good reception and was fairly easilyabsorbed.    The Treasury had set an upper limit on the issue of 12billion francs and was likely to continue to try and sell asmuch paper as it could over coming months to meet its borrowingneeds for this year of around 150 billion, one banker said.    Dealers said there was no difficulty in placing liquidityin the primary market at the moment despite competition fromthe surge in investments on the Paris stock exchange.    There has been a flood of large bond issues, but withformulas well adapted to market conditions and investor demand- with warrants or a mix of fixed and floating-rates - whichhave been snapped up, and with generally broadly negative fees.    Dealers pointed to the recent Caisse d'Aide a l'Equipementdes Collectivites Locales (CAECL) 8.90 pct two billion francbond with warrants exchangeable for floating-rate bonds issuedover 13 years and 80 days at 97.04 pct with payment date March9, which was today quoted at -0.90 to -1.10 pct.    Even classic fixed-rate issues, after being neglected sincethe end of last year, are finding buyers, one banker said.    Dealers said that now the question was to see how the termsof imminent operations would be set, with great market interestfocussed on the likely three next issues.    These will include an expected four to five billion francissue for Electricite de France, to be followed by a bond ofaround one billion francs for Auxiliaire du Credit Foncier, asubsidiary of the banking group Credit Foncier de France, and anew issue by tender from the mortgage agency Caisse deRefinancement Hypothecaire. REUTER
IMF URGES BELGIUM TO MAKE FURTHER SPENDING CUTS The Belgian government, whichintroduced large-scale public spending reductions last year,has been told by an International Monetary Fund team there isscope for further cuts in 1988.    The suggestion is contained in the preliminary conclusionsof the annual IMF consultations with Belgium on its economicpolicy, a copy of which was distributed to journalists at theweekly press conference following meetings of the cabinet.    The IMF team also urges Belgium to adopt a firm interestrate policy, with a particular emphasis on long-term rates.    The team's report to the government praises last year'sspending cuts, which are due to reduce 1987 government spendingby 195 billion francs, and says 1986 saw the Belgian economyperform "better, on a broader basis, than at any time so far inthe 1980s."    However, it adds that with lower inflation, stabilisationof the debt to gross national product ratio requires a muchlower budget deficit than the seven pct of GNP target thegovernment has set itself for 1989.    The government's net financing requirement was 11.0 pct ofGNP in 1986.    The report says "The most that can be afforded over the nextfew years is a zero growth of real non-interest expenditure ofgeneral Government."    It says there is a need for a revision of the Belgian taxsystem to iron out distortions and meet hopes of a reduced taxburden but substantial progress is needed in stabilising thedebt to GNP ratio before this is possible.    "Because of the difficulty of sustaining zero expendituregrowth and of likely growing impatience (for) tax reductions,we feel that your position would be stronger if you coulddecide on rather sharp expenditure reductions in 1988," thereport adds.    The IMF urges a strong interest rate policy to signal thegovernment's determination to keep its currency strong and tocurb inflation.    It says firmer long-term rates would slow private netlong-term capital outflows, which increased strongly in 1986.    It also urges net repayments of foreign currency debt andan overhaul of domestic capital markets to facilitate thesubscriptions by non-residents of government bond issues inBelgian francs. REUTER
BANK OF ENGLAND PRESSURE HOLDS BASE RATES This week's Bank of England resistance tostrong market pressure for lower interest rates succeeded inholding bank base rates at 11 pct.    But at a cost of threatening the Chancellor of theExchequer Nigel Lawson's policy, stated at the end of the ParisGroup of Six meeting last month, that he wanted to see sterlingbroadly stable about then prevailing levels, market sourcessaid.    Since then, the pound has risen to 71.8 pct on its closingtrade-weighted index, up from 69.7 pct imediately after theParis meeting and up 0.4 on the day.    Today's peak at 72.0 pct was its highest since August 19.    A Treasury spokesman said Lawson had said he neither wanteda substantial rise or fall in sterling. The question istherefore how large a rise he is ready to see before acting.    Paul Temperton, chief economist at Merrill Lynch EuropeLtd, estimated that the government wanted to see thetrade-weighted index about 72-73 pct. "Even after this actionover the last few weeks, sterling's only just within strikingdistance of that range," he said.    Other analysts agree that the government probably has somebroad target range around this area.    However, they said Lawson would be prepared to see thepound go higher at least in the short term, despite the risk ofa loss of export competitiveness and cheaper prices on imports.    "If the Bank of England keeps the interest rates as theyare, what's to stop it (going higher)," said John Cox, executivedirector of EBC Amro Bank Ltd, a major operator on the Londonforeign exchange market.    Cox estimates that the Bank of England has been activeselling sterling over the past few days, despite the lack ofgeneral market talk of such intervention, and this has helpedkeep it below 1.60 dlrs.    The pound rose to 1.5870 dlrs from 1.5764 yesterday and1.5400 February 23, the day after the Paris meeting.    But Cox says the government must be worried with sterlingheading toward 2.95 marks and would be very concerned if itholds around these levels.    He warned the Bank may run the risk of missing the interestrate boat. "If rates don't come down, the market will say theyought to have come down and will sell sterling," he said.    Most dealers agree there is a good deal of "hot money" beinginvested in sterling, money simply attracted by high overnightor one-week rates, which could flow out at equally shortnotice.    However, the authorities will hope that at least aproportion of the buying reflects long-term investment.    "The last thing they want to do is reduce them (rates) andhave to jack them back up again," said Richard Jeffrey,economist at brokerage house Hoare Govett Ltd.    He said a half point cut would ensure continued support forsterling, at least in the near term.    However, most analysts are still looking for a full pointabout March 17, Budget Day.    The Bank must hold out until it sees the reaction to theBudget, said Temperton.    The Budget is widely forecast to be a vote winner in therun-up to a general election, the major factor behind currentbullishness in the government bond and currency markets.    "Lawson wants to delay a cut in base rates until the budget.He wants it to be crowned with the glory of an interest ratecut," said Ian Harwood, economist at Warburg Securities, theequities arm of Mercury International Group.    Speculation a clearing bank might break ranks and lead theway lower were confounded today. There was excitement a fall inthe weekly Treasury Bill rate to 9.7 pct from 10.2 pct lastFriday might mean the Bank had changed its mind.    This followed the imposition of penal lending rates of 113/4 pct on the discount houses yesterday, and was the lowestsince base rates were at 10 pct, early last October.    However, with this Bill rate pertaining to three-monthsmoney, banking sources said the market could not take the cutas a guide to the Bank's intentions on short term rates. REUTER
POSITIVE OUTLOOK TEMPERED IN U.S. DEBT FUTURES Higher oil prices and stronger thanexpected U.S. employment growth led to sharp losses in U.S.interest rate futures and diminished what had been a positivechart outlook, financial analysts said.    The increase of 319,000 in non-farm payroll employmentduring February was above market expectations for a rise of170,000 to 200,000 jobs and sparked selling in Treasury bondfutures that drove the June contract through key technicalsupport at 101-2/32 at the opening Friday, they noted.    "I don't like that fact that we had a close below 101,"said Prudential Bache analyst Fred Leiner. The 101-2/32 levelin the June bond contract had been the top of a three-monthtrading range, which when penetrated during the rally Wednesdayled to bullish forecasts by chartists.    But analysts called it a false breakout on the weeklycharts when the June bond closed at 100-10/32 Friday.    Some also forecast that the high of the week at 101-19/32may signal a bearish double top formation portending steeplosses.    "I tend to go along with the double top scenario," saidNorthern Futures analyst Eileen Rico.    Rico noted that the possible formation, along with the factthat the rally of the last two weeks in bond futures hasoccurred on relatively low volume, were negative signals.    Despite what could be a negative chart outlook, Leinerremains cautiously optimistic, and June bonds should findsupport between 100 and 99-16/32 next week.    The optimistic outlook, as well as Leiner's expectationthat the yield curve will flatten in the near term, is based onan improving inflation outlook.    With the dollar stable and economic data giving the FederalReserve little room to ease monetary policy, "the inflationoutlook is improving," Leiner said, and that should lead torelatively stronger bond prices than bill and Eurodollarprices.    Still, Leiner noted that the recent rise in oil pricesremains a concern for the inflation outlook.    Oil rose during the week on reports that OPEC nations weremaintaining production quotas and official prices, and got anextra boost Friday due to the suspension of oil exports fromEcuador after an earthquake Thursday.    "The runup in crude oil will be a short-lived phenomenon,"said Carroll McEntee and McGinley analyst Brian Singer.    The rise in oil prices over the past week has been largely"media induced," Singer said. He noted that even though OPECproduction may be within quotas, "oil stocks are attremendously high levels."    Although the Ecuador situation could cause a delay, oilprices will eventually decline to the lows of late February, hesaid, and that will be a supportive influence for bond prices. Reuter
HONG KONG BANKS LEAVE INTEREST RATES UNCHANGED The Hong Kong Association of Bankssaid it decided to leave interest rates unchanged at today'sregular weekly meeting.    Current rates are 1-3/4 pct for savings accounts, 24-hours,seven-day call, one-week and two-weeks. One-month is 2-1/4 pct,two-months 2-1/2 pct, three- and six-months are both three pct,nine-months 3-1/4 pct and 12-months 3-3/4 pct.    Prime rate is six pct. REUTER
YIELD FALLS ON 30-DAY SAMA DEPOSITS The yield on 30-day bankers securitydeposit accounts issued this week by the Saudi Arabian MonetaryAgency (SAMA) fell to 5.84073 pct from 6.21950 last Saturday,bankers said.    SAMA increased the offer price on the 900 mln riyal issueto 99.51563 from 99.48438. One-month interbank riyal depositswere quoted today at 6-1/4, six pct.    SAMA offers a total of 1.9 billion riyals each week in 30,91 and 180-day paper to banks in the Kingdom. REUTER
GERMAN GOVERNMENT NEEDS SEEN RAISING BOND YIELDS Increased federal government borrowingneeds and a growing unwillingness by foreign investors to buymark assets could push yields in German public authority bondshigher this year, bond market sources say.    "At the moment we have a sideways movement in the short-termrates. But how rates move in the long end will depend stronglyon foreigners," one portfolio manager for a large securitiesinvestment house in Frankfurt said.    The sources also said the government had already stepped upits borrowing programme in anticipation on increased needs.    Friday's loan stock was the third this year already, thesources noted. It carried a 10-year maturity, a coupon of sixpct and price of 100-1/4 to yield 5.97 pct at issue.    This compared with the last issue which had a 5-3/4 pctcoupon priced at 99-3/4 pct for a yield of 5.75 pct.    But dealers said the terms were not enough to attractforeign investors, and the federal government would have topush yields higher in future if it wanted to borrow again soon.    Sources noted federal government issues had also increasedin size, with the introduction of a four billion mark volumeonly starting last May.    One finance ministry economist said "It isn't more. It'sjust the size (of each bond) which has increased." He addedconditions in the capital market currently remained fairlyfavourable for raising new debt.    Until recently, federal issues sold very strongly abroad,with up to 90 pct of some being placed with foreign investors.    With the recent stabilisation of the U.S. Dollar, however,foreign investors have begun to back away from the market, ashopes of further currency gains in marks diminish.    Sources said the government has may have already stepped upits borrowing, having raised more than 18 billion marks.    The government made net borrowings of 23 billion marks in1986. But Bundesbank statistics showed that net borrowingthrough bonds was 26.6 billion.    The sources said this indicated a move by the governmentout of other types of debt to gain access to foreign fundsthrough the more acceptable loan stock form.    Although new credit needs were partly inflated by a largeamount of issues maturing recently, other factors, includingthe government's tax reduction program, would also reduceincome next year. "The problem here will be the tax reform," theportfolio manager said.    He added that the government's cut in its top income taxrate to 53 pct from 56 pct in 1988 would make it difficult forthe government to reduce borrowings.    The sources said the government would fall far short ofcovering all of its 40 billion marks in lost revenue from thetax reform by making expenditure cuts and would be forced tofall back on debt markets in one form or the other.    The portfolio manager noted that besides the three federalgovernment loan stocks so far this year, it has also fallenback twice to raise a total 6.43 billion marks through theissue of fixed-rate medium-term "Kassenobligation" notes.    A finance ministry economist said the government did notexpect to have any trouble keeping to its plan to borrow only anet 22.3 billion marks this year.    Though many sources agreed, they added that the trend wouldprobably not continue next year as the further tax cuts comeinto effect.    "I would expect the efforts for a further tax reform wouldmean government borrowing will increase," the manager said.    Bond prices last week were slightly firmer on balance, withthe Bundesbank's public authority bond yield calculationfalling to 5.64 pct on Friday from 5.66 a week earlier.    But sources said foreign demand for the new federalgovernment loan stock was slack, as sentiment grows that thedollar may now rise against the mark.    "The demand wasn't so good," a dealer for a German bank inLondon said.    The dollar's recent slight appreciation against the markeven meant that foreign investors have sold mark bondsrecently, some dealers said. REUTER
NEW DUTCH ADVANCES TOTAL 6.5 BILLION GUILDERS The Dutch central bank said it hasaccepted bids totalling 6.5 billion guilders at tender for neweleven-day special advances at 5.3 pct covering the periodMarch 9 to 20 aimed at relieving money market tightness.    Subscriptions to 500 mln guilders were met in full, amountsabove 500 mln at 35 pct.    The new facility replaces old seven-day advances worth 4.8billion guilders at the same rate. REUTER
BANK OF FRANCE SETS MONEY MARKET TENDER The Bank of France said it invited offersof first category paper today for a money market interventiontender.    Money market dealers said conditions seemed right for theBank to cut its intervention rate at the tender by a quarterpercentage point to 7-3/4 pct from eight, reflecting an easingin call money rate last week, and the French franc's steadinesson foreign exchange markets since the February 22 currencystabilisation accord here by the Group of Five and Canada.    Intervention rate was last raised to eight pct from 7-1/4on January 2. Call money today was quoted at 7-11/16 7-3/4 pct. REUTER
NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK SAYS IT CUTTING BASE LENDING RATE TO 10.5 PCT FROM National Westminster Bank Plc said it hascut its base lending rate  0.5 percentage points to 10.5 pcttoday.    National Westminster said that it was responding to generaleasing in money market rates.    Its move followed a signal from the Bank of England earlierthis afternoon that it would endorse a half point cut in thebase rate, a surprise move following its strong signals lastweek that such a move would be premature.    However, since then the pound has continued to gainstrongly. REUTER
POEHL SAYS FURTHER RATE CUT POSSIBLE - SOURCES Bundesbank president Karl Otto Poehltold a closed investment symposium that West Germany could cutleading interest rates again if the United States makes asimilar move, banking sources said.    The sources were reporting Poehl's remarks at a symposiumin Duesseldorf last week organised by Deutsche Bank Ag. Pressrepresentatives were not invited.    The sources, speaking separately, said Poehl told about 200bankers in reply to questions that a cut in U.S. Interest rateswould give room for a matching measure in Germany.    "It was a definite hint at lower German interest rates," saidone banker who attended the symposium.    A Bundesbank spokesman said the central bank would have nocomment on the reported remarks, made at the private meeting.    But, according to a second source, who also declined to beidentified, Poehl's comments were seen by bankers present as adirect pointer to further moves by the central bank to defendGerman industry from an additional revaluation of the mark.    "He said if the Americans drop their interest rates then theBundesbank would also drop them. He said that quite clearly,"the second source said.    In reply to questions, Poehl also said the half-point cutin the discount and Lombard rates on January 22 came after theU.S. Had signalled it would be prepared to attend a meeting todiscuss the level of the dollar on condition Germany made sucha move in advance, the sources said.    Asked if American authorities could have been persuaded, bycuts in German rates, to come to the bargaining table as earlyas last September, one of the sources quoted Poehl as saying,"No, they wouldn't have been. We checked that."    The Paris meeting of the Group of Six industrial nationstook place exactly one month after the German cut in rates.    Poehl emphasised in his comments the very close talksbetween central banks before and after the G-6 meeting, sayingthat financial markets had not fully realised the significanceof the Paris session and the U.S. Agreement to stem furtherfalls in the value of the dollar, the sources said.    For the first time all participants at the summit agreedthat a further fall in the dollar would be harmful for allworld economies, including the U.S., Poehl had said.    The sources said the tone of Poehl's comments boostedgrowing sentiment that the dollar would be stabilised aroundcurrent levels by international central bank cooperation.    One source said Poehl's remarks also underlined the factthat the Bundesbank was now more prepared to be accommodativein monetary policy in order to prevent a further slowdown inWest Germany's economic growth.    Poehl and other Bundesbank officials have in the paststressed that the German central bank had no directresponsibility for growth and was solely concerned withcombatting inflation.    This led, for instance, to the introduction of a tightermonetary stance from the beginning of December until thehalf-point cut in rates in late January.    The sources quoted Poehl as saying that the currentovershooting of the German monetary target would not directlyrespark inflation. The Bundesbank was not obliged to reactimmediately whenever such overshooting occurs.    Latest data for central bank money stock, the Bundesbank'smain measure of money supply, showed the measure was growing at7-1/2 pct in January, outside its three to six pct 1987 target.    Share prices rose in very active trading today, withdealers reporting that Poehl's remarks, coupled with a bullishoutlook on stock prices from Deutsche at the same symposium,brought in strong bargain hunting at current low levels. REUTER
NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK CUTS BASE RATE National Westminster Bank Plc said it hascut its base lending rate  0.5 percentage points to 10.5 pcttoday.    National Westminster said it was responding to generaleasing in money market rates.    Its move followed a signal from the Bank of England earlierthis afternoon that it would endorse a half point cut in thebase rate, a surprise move following its strong signals lastweek that such a move would be premature.    However, since then the pound has continued to gainstrongly. Reuter
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER HELP AT NEW RATES The Bank of England said it provided themarket with further assistance during the afternoon, buyingbills worth 166 mln stg at the lower rates introduced thismorning.    It bought 45 mln stg of local authority bills plus 27 mlnstg of bank bills in band one at 10-3/8 pct together with 94mln stg of band two bank bills at 10-5/16 pct.    The bank also revised its estimate of the market shortageup to 300 mln stg from 250 mln this morning. It has given totalassistance of 213 mln stg today. REUTER
 Bank of France said it cut money market intervention rate to 7-3/4 pct from e Southern Co said it will take anafter-tax charge of 226 mln dlrs against earnings no later thanJanuary 1988 because the projected cost of the Vogtle nuclearpower plant has risen abover the amount which retail customersin Georgia will be asked to pay.    The company's largest subsidiary, Georgia Power Co, saidthe budget for the plant has increased by 6.3 pct, or 522 mlndlrs, to 8.87 billion. However, because of a pledge the madelast year to Georgia's Public Service Commission, the increasedcost will not be included in the utility's retail electricrates.    Geogia Power also said its board has delayed the scheduledcompletion of Vogtle's Unit Two to June 1989 from September1988. Unit Two is about 60 pct complete, it added.    The utility said fuel loading has been completed at UnitOne and the unit is being put through a series of low-powertests before the Nuclear Regulatory Commission is asked for afull-power license.    The nuclear power plant, located near Waynesboro, Ga., isco-owned by <Oglethorpe Power Corp>, the Municipal ElectricAuthority of Georgia and the city of Dalton.    Georgia Power said the revised Vogtle budget estimate wasdue to several factors, including additional labor costsincurred to keep the plant's first unit on schedule forcommercial operation by June. The new figure represents thefirst change in the plant's budget since August 1985, when itwas estimated at 8.35 billion dlrs.    In March 1986, the utility told Georgia regulators it would"cap" the price of Vogtle its customers would be asked to payat 3.56 billion dlrs, the company's share of the then projected8.35 billion dlr total. Under the new budget, Georgia Powersaid, its share amounts to 3.87 billion dlrs.    Noting that Georgia Power's share of the Vogtle increase is313 mln dlrs, Southern said this will result in a chargeagainst earnings of 177 mln dlrs after taxes.    In addition, the company said, Georgia Power's contractswith the joint owners require the utility to buy backsignificant amounts of Vogtle capacity during the plant'sinitial years of operation. Under terms of the cap on costs, itwill not attempt to recover the portion of the budget increasethat applies to the buybacks.    This bings the total amount that must be charged againstearnings to 2326 mln dlrs after taxes, Southern said.    Southern said new rules of the Financial AccountingStandards Board, which are effective in January 1988, requireany costs that are determined nonrecoverable to be chargedagainst earnings once that determination is made.    The company also said its board has approved a capitalbudget of 2.1 billion dlrs in 1987, including work on theVogtle project.    It said a 5.9 billion dlr capita budget for the three-yearperiod 1987-1989 was also outlined at the board meeting, notingthis is 700 mln dlrs below the comparable figure for the years1986-1988. Reuter
BANK OF FRANCE CUTS INTERVENTION RATE The Bank of France said it cut its moneymarket intervention rate to 7-3/4 pct from eight pct when itinjected money against first category paper.    The bank also cut its seven-day repossession rate to 8-1/2pct from 8-3/4 pct.    The intervention rate has stood at eight pct since it wasraised from 7-1/4 pct on January 2 as the French franc cameunder pressure ahead of the EMS realignment on January 11.    The bank said the purchase, effective tomorrow, is for fivepct of private paper and fixed rate Treasury bills maturingbetween March 25 and June 25 and of other Treasury billsmaturing between March 25, 1987 and March 25, 1989.    The rate cut had been expected since the bank announced amoney market intervention tender earlier today.    Money market dealers said conditions seemed right for aquarter percentage point cut, reflecting an easing in the callmoney rate last week, and the French franc's steadiness onforeign exchange markets since the February 22 currencystabilisation accord here by the Group of Five and Canada. REUTER
BARCLAYS BANK SAID IT CUTTING BASE LENDING RATE TO 10.5 PCT FROM Imatron Inc saidMitsui and Co Ltd of Japan has purchased a two mln dlr equityinterest in Imatron at market price and was granted a 120-dayoption to make another two mln dlr investment at the same price.    Imatron said Mitsui, the exclusive importer of Imatron'sUltrafast computed tomography scanners into Japan, is scheduledto take delivery of its first scanner next month forinstallation in a large cardiology center.    It said it has entered into preliminary discussions withMitsui on the formation of a joint venture to finance theaccelerated development of Imatron's technology and itscommercialization in Japan. Reuter
BARCLAYS, MIDLAND FOLLOW NATWEST BASE RATE CUT Barclays Bank Plc <BCS.L> and MidlandBank Plc <MDBL.L> said they are cutting their base lendingrates to 10.5 pct from 11 pct. The cuts follow a similar moveby National Westminster Bank Plc <NWBL.L>    The rate changes take effect tomorrow. REUTER
BARCLAYS, MIDLAND FOLLOW NATWEST BASE RATE CUT Barclays Bank Plc <BCS.L> and MidlandBank Plc <MDBL.L> said they are cutting their base lendingrates to 10.5 pct from 11 pct. The cuts follow a similar moveby National Westminster Bank Plc <NWBL.L>    The rate changes take effect tomorrow.    The base rate reductions came after the Bank of England cutits dealing rates this morning in a signal to the money marketsthat it would not resist a half percentage point drop in bankbase lending rates, market sources said.    Until the end of last week, the central was holding outstaunchly against market pressures for lower rates in anapparent effort to preserve the expected rate cuts for aroundthe time of the government's annual Budget on March 17.    Sterling remained firm around 1.59 dlrs compared with itsclose here on Friday at 1.5865 dlrs. REUTER
U.K. ISSUES ONE BILLION STG BOND TRANCHE The Bank of England said it was takingonto its books a further one billion stg tranche of 8-3/4 pctTreasury Loan stock due 1997, payable 40 stg pct onapplication. The stock was issued to the Bank at 96.50 stg pctand will be available for dealings from March 11, with theremainder of the amount payable on May 5. The Bank said thebonds would yield 9.28 pct at the issue price and would be freeof tax to residents overseas. The issue would be designated8-3/4 pct Treasury Loan 1997 "B."  A further 100 mln stg wasreserved for the National Debt Commissioners.    The market dropped by up to 1/2 point following the Bank'sannouncement, with the Treasury 13-1/2 pct stock due 2004/08quoted one full point lower at 134-12/32 stg pct around 20minutes after the news.    Dealers said the announcement had to be viewed against thebackdrop of intense pressure for lower U.K. Interest rateswhich had built up over the past two weeks as a result ofsterling's strength.    The Bank this morning finally signalled it was prepared tosee lower rates and U.K. Clearing banks this afternoonannounced cuts in their base lending rates to 10.5 pct from 11pct.    The Bank had initially been reluctant to countenance a ratecut because, dealers said, the authorities had wished to delaya reduction until around the time of the U.K. Budget on March17, thereby preserving the full impact of Chancellor of theExchequer Nigel Lawson's package of measures.    However, in the face of sterling's apparently inexorableclimb, the authorities today decided to cede to pressure andallow a half-point cut.    Today's one billion stg tap issue was viewed by the marketas a move by the Bank to eradicate hopes for a further earlyrate cut which might arise as a result of strong sterling.    Most market participants believe that Lawson will nowfoster a further half point interest rate reduction at the timeof the budget, although one or two said they would not besurprised to see a full point decline at this stage.    Dealers noted that as part of the authorities' attemptslast week to ease pressure for lower rates, the Bank had issueda one billion stg tap stock with a view to subduing theGovernment bond market.    To the surprise of most participants, the issue was soldout within hours of becoming available for trading and themarket pushed on to register further sharp gains.    Dealers said that at this stage it seemed unlikely that theissue announced today would be absorbed by the market asrapidly as last week's.    However, they noted that although sterling had edged downfrom its highs following the base rate cut, it had still closedon a trade-weighted basis at 72.4, well ahead of Friday's final71.8 and only just beneath the peak of 72.5 touched at 1300GMT. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO ADD TEMPORARY RESERVES The Federal Reserve is expected tointervene in the government securities market to add temporaryreserves via customer repurchase agreements, economists said.    Most economists said the Fed will add 1.5 to two billiondlrs of temporary reserves via customer repurchase agreements,but some said there is a slim chance the Fed will injectpermanent reserves via three-day system repurchase agreements.    Federal funds opened at 6-1/16 pct and firmed to 6-1/8 pctin early trading. Funds averaged six pct on Friday. Reuter
BARCLAYS, MIDLAND FOLLOW NATWEST BASE RATE CUT Barclays Bank Plc <BCS.L> and MidlandBank Plc <MDBL.L> said they are cutting their base lendingrates to 10.5 pct from 11 pct. The cuts follow a similar moveby National Westminster Bank Plc <NWBL.L>    The rate changes take effect tomorrow.    The base rate reductions came after the Bank of England cutits dealing rates this morning in a signal to the money marketsthat it would not resist a half percentage point drop in bankbase lending rates, market sources said.    Until the end of last week, the central was holding outstaunchly against market pressures for lower rates in anapparent effort to preserve the expected rate cuts for aroundthe time of the government's annual Budget on March 17.    Sterling remained firm around 1.59 dlrs compared with itsclose here on Friday at 1.5865 dlrs. Reuter
LLOYDS BANK MATCHES BASE RATE CUT TO 10.5 PCT Lloyds Bank Plc <LLOY.L> said it iscutting its base lending rate to 10.5 pct from 11 pct,effective tomorrow.    The reduction follows similar moves from the three otherBritish clearing banks.    National Westminster Bank Plc <NWBL.L> led the way thismorning after the Bank of England lowered its dealing rates ina signal that it would tolerate a half percentage pointreduction.    The central bank's surprise signal followed its strenuousefforts last week to prevent market forces from bringing downbase rates before the U.K. Budget on March 17. REUTER
LLOYDS BANK MATCHES BASE RATE CUT TO 10.5 PCT Lloyds Bank Plc <LLOY.L> said it iscutting its base lending rate to 10.5 pct from 11 pct,effective tomorrow.    The reduction follows similar moves from the three otherBritish clearing banks.    National Westminster Bank Plc <NWBL.L> led the way thismorning after the Bank of England lowered its dealing rates ina signal that it would tolerate a half percentage pointreduction.    The central bank's surprise signal followed its strenuousefforts last week to prevent market forces from bringing downbase rates before the U.K. Budget on March 17. Reuter
LLOYDS BANK MATCHES BASE RATE CUT TO 10.5 PCT Lloyds Bank Plc said it is cutting itsbase lending rate to 10.5 pct from 11 pct, effective tomorrow.    The reduction follows similar moves from the three otherBritish clearing banks.    National Westminster Bank Plc led the way this morningafter the Bank of England lowered its dealing rates in a signalthat it would tolerate a half percentage point reduction.    The central bank's surprise signal followed its strenuousefforts last week to prevent market forces from bringing downbase rates before the U.K. Budget on March 17. Reuter
FRENCH 13-WEEK T-BILL AVERAGE RATE FALLS TO 7.37 PCT FROM 7.69 PCT -  The Hamburg fishmeal market saw littlemovement in the past week with demand slack as in other proteinfeed sectors, trade sources said.    Prices edged up on firmer origin offering levels and thestronger dollar. Sellers quoted 64 pct fishmeal at between 640and 650 marks per tonne free on truck for spot and between 630and 640 marks for April/Dec.    International demand was also slow but some inquiries fromFar Eastern buyers were noted in South American producercountries, the sources said.    Chile is said to have good catches in northern and southernfishing grounds, with offers unchanged at 330 dlrs per tonne cand f North German ports.    Peru's catches differ regionally and stocks are low.Sellers quoted a nominal offering level of 320 dlrs per tonne cand f north German ports. Ecuador was not in the market andcatches are said to be poor.    Denmark has seasonally low catches, with 72 pct mealoffered at 315 crowns per 100 kilos cif North European portsfor April/Oct deliveries. Iceland has good catches and sellersquoted a price of 5.45 dlrs per percentage point protein cifNorth European ports. Norway was not in the market. Reuter
UK MONEY RATES FALL AS BANK APPROVES BASE RATE CUT A half point cut in base lending rateswas announced by the big four clearing banks today after theBank of England finally endorsed such a move following weeks ofdownward pressure, dealers said.    During its routine intervention in the market, the banktrimmed the rates at which it deals with the discount houses byhalf a point and National Westminster led the other clearingbanks in reducing its base rate to 10-1/2 pct from 11 pct.    The timing of the Bank of England move took operators bysurprise after its recent action seemingly designed to dampenhopes of a base rate cut ahead of the U.K. Budget on March 17.       For some time, fundamentals haveled the market to push for a one point cut in base lendingrates to 10 pct but the central bank has declined to followwholesale money market rates down.    Although political considerations -- the government's wishto see a fall in base rates coincide with the Budget -- hadbeen suggested by operators last week as reasons for the Bank'sdelaying action, worries about the real strength of sterlingand perhaps about the market's reaction to the content of theBudget may have been behind the central bank's caution, dealerssaid.    In the event, sterling continued firm after the rate cut,leaving the market still looking for another half point fall.    Consequently, rates in the money market eased during theday, one-month interbank sterling shedding 5/16 point to10-9/16 7/16 and three-months trading 1/16 point down at10-5/16 3/16 pct. Sterling cd's were similarly down between5/16 point in one month and 1/8 point in one year.    Overnight interbank money for tomorrow was indicated ataround 11 pct, almost a point below the levels ruling at theend of last week. Today, overnight touched a high of some11-3/4 pct after the Bank took out 228 mln stg of an estimated300 mln stg shortage. REUTER
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange 2.5 billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.    Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/16 pct whenthe Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves tothe banking system. Reuter
WORLD BANK TO BRING BORROWING FORWARD THIS YEAR The World Bank intends to bringborrowing forward into the first half of 1987 because itexpects global interest rates to rise by year end, World Bankvice president and treasurer Eugene Rotberg said.    He told a news conference that rates in the U.S., Japan,West Germany and Switzerland were near their lows. "The weightof opinion is (that in a year from now) there is a higherprobability there will be one pct higher than one pct lowerinterest rates," he said.    The World Bank had not issued floating rate notes so farthis year because of the expectation of higher interest rates.    The policy of the World Bank was to maintain liquidity at alevel that gave the bank flexibility to decide when, where andhow much to borrow, Rotberg said.    Cash in hand was now about 50 pct of the next three years'anticipated net requirement and comprised 25 pct of outstandingdebt and 66 pct of its debt maturing within five years.    Although the World Bank had pioneered the swap market, itdid not intend to launch new financial instruments just for thesake of innovation, Rotberg said.    Of a total of 74.5 billion dlrs debt outstanding, only someeight billion had been swapped into another currency.    Many recent innovations were either unfair to investors orunfair to borrowers. Until the World Bank was confident thatthis was not the case, it would not adopt new instruments.    The World Bank would raise 90 pct of the funds needed overthe next year with methods used before, Rotberg said. However,for some 10 pct of new requirements the bank would try out newinstruments such as bonds with warrants.    The World Bank had publicly offered 60 bonds in Germanysince the first issue was launched in 1959, he said.
CITIBANK FOLLOWS U.K. BASE RATE CUT TO 10.5 PCT <Citibank NA> said it has cut its Britishbase lending rate to 10.5 pct from 11 pct, with effect fromtomorrow.    This move follows similar cuts by four major Britishclearing banks, led by National Westminster Bank Plc <NWBL.L>.    Lower rates were signalled by the Bank of England thismorning in an attempt to curb recent upward pressure on thepound, market sources said. REUTER
U.S. BILL AUCTIONS SEEN AT 5.63-65, 5.59-61 PCT The U.S. Treasury's weekly auction isexpected to produce an average rate of 5.63-65 pct forthree-month bills and one of 5.59-61 pct for six-month bills,dealers said.    Shortly before auction time on the new bills, the rate onthe outstanding three-month bills was unchanged at 5.64 pctbid, while the rate on the six-month bills was one basis pointhigher at 5.68 pct bid. Reuter
PRIMARY EUROSTERLING MARKET BOOMS DESPITE RATE CUT Two new eurosterling bonds were launchedtoday, making a total of 10 new deals in the sector so far thismonth, as borrowers rush to cash in on a bull sterling marketfueled by the strength of the pound and pre-budget euphoria.    The Bank of England finally gave way to a 1/2 point cut inbanks' base lending rates earlier today, but dealers said thishad been largely discounted and was not likely to detract fromthe current popularity of sterling-denominated investments.    "Sterling, in any shape or form, is flavor of the month andwe're set to see many more eurosterling deals," one dealer said.    Today's new eurosterling bonds were a 10-year, 100 mln stgdeal for Sweden at 9-1/2 pct and priced at 101-1/4 pct, lead byBaring Brothers and Co Ltd and a 14 year 60 mln stg convertibledeal for Storehouse Plc launched by SBCI International Ltd. "Wethought we saw a proverbial flood of new deals with the 14 wehad last month but it seems March will beat February hands downwith 10 already," one eurosterling specialist said.    "Optically, psychologically, these single figures are muchmore attractive for the borrower. Eurosterling looks like acheap and attractive way to raise your money," he added.    This accounts for the wide variety of borrowers who havetapped the sector recently, ranging from sovereigns such as theKingdom of Sweden today, continental banks includingCommerzbank and Deutsche Bank and British corporations.    Another U.K. Merchant bank analyst noted that the currentvogue for eurosterling enabled several corporate borrowers lastmonth to offer paper priced below comparative gilt yields.    A Storehouse official confirmed that the issue was aimed atSwiss and German investors who were showing good interest.    This is the first entry into the long term internationalcapital markets by Storehouse, British designer TerenceConran's retail conglomerate which incorporates U.K. Chainstores Mothercare, British Home Stores and Habitat.    "We have been considering the move for quite some time nowand the current strength of the eurosterling sector providedthe perfect opportunity and spur for us to finally tap themarket," Lance Moir, corporate treasurer at Storehouse Plc toldReuters.
CENTRAL BANKERS SATISFIED WITH PARIS ACCORD Central bankers said theywere generally satisfied with the response to the Paris accordtwo weeks ago to stabilize currencies at around current levels.    Speaking after a meeting at the Bank for InternationalSettlements (BIS), which reviewed the agreement, they alsowelcomed interest rates cuts in France and today's drop inBritish rates.  One top official said the rate cuts would helpto stimulate growth generally in Europe and welcomed thatcountries other than West Germany were seen to be helpingsustain the economy.     The central bankers, who spoke on the condition they not benamed, said the meeting of governors from the Group of 10countries also heard a report from Michel Camdessus, the newmanaging director of the International Monetary Fund, on theIMF's latest assessment of the debt crisis. In particular, theydiscussed Brazil's debt moratorium.    But there was no sense of urgency, they said, and Brazilhad made no appeal for bridging loans from the BIS or centralbanks. Reuter
U.S. SELLS 3-MO BILLS AT 5.63 PCT, STOP 5.64 PCT, 6-MO 5.59 PCT, STOP  A top Treasury official said he doesnot expect any comprehensive Congressional reform of the U.S.banking industry until after the 1988 presidential election dueto political pressures and, to a lesser extent, the insidertrading scandal on Wall Street.    George Gould, Under Secretary of the Treasury, told a WallStreet Planning Group luncheon, "legislation is not going tohappen before the election ... (people) do not like to vote oncontroversial issues in election years."    "It may take a while in the next administration ... to getsomething done," he added.    Calls for a major overhaul of the U.S. banking industry,which would probably feature wider investment banking powersfor commercial banks, has met strong opposition from privateinterest groups, such as the Securities Industry Association.    "These discussions have nothing to do with merit ... thesegroups are trying to cloak self-interest in public policyterms," Gould said. "It is easier to stop something than it isto get it going."    He also described current concern about insider trading as"a major impediment to further progress ... it is not a helpfulbackdrop to accomplish financial reform."    Similarly, Gould said lobbying by such groups as the U.S.League of Savings Institutions would probably mean that theReagan Administration's proposal for the recapitalization ofthe Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp would be watereddown.    Gould foresaw a five billion dlr injection over two years,compared with the original request for 15 billion dlrs overthree years.    Gould ruled out any new government initiative on bankingreform but said that some broad guidelines to address theseissues would be made public over the next few months. Reuter
Sumita says little room for Bank of Japan to further ease credi Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumitasaid there is little room left for the central bank to furtherease its credit policy as interest rates levels are nowapproaching their lower limit.    "The government should instead seek ways of making the bestuse of its fiscal policy," he told a press conference.    His remarks were concerned with a comprehensive economicstimulative package the government plans to adopt in the comingdays.    At the recent talks among the six major industrialisednations in Paris, Japan promised to work out a comprehensiveeconomic package to boost domestic demand, which in turn wouldhelp increase its imports and reduce its trade surplus.    Sumita also said the economy will show a gradual upturn inthe second half of the year if the yen remains stable.    He said there is caution in the foreign exchange marketagainst a further rise of the yen and mark and this explainsthe recent stability in the currency markets. Conflictingeconomic indicators from the U.S. Have also been dampeningmarket activity, he added. REUTER
INDONESIAN BANKS RAISE INTEREST RATES A tight money market has pushedinterest rates on three to six month time deposits to between15 and 18 pct from 13 to 15 pct a month ago, bankers said.    March is usually a tight month for the money market becauseof tax payments and banks' need to attract funds for theiryear-end accounts on March 31.    This year the situation has been made worse by December'srush to buy dollars by companies and businessmen who fearedimposition of exchange controls. Much of that outflow has yetto be converted back into rupiah.    "A lot of small money has come back in, but the big money isholding out until after April," one U.S. Banker said.    The tight money policy of Bank Indonesia, the central bank,is helping to keep rates high.    Short-term lending rates now average 25 pct a year, with noprospect they will be lowered soon, the bankers said.    Central Bank governor Arifin Siregar said earlier this weekthat Indonesia could look forward to better economic prospectsin 1987/88, but added the "speculators" who led a run on therupiah late last year could again pose problems.    Indonesia holds general elections on April 23, the first infive years, and most businessmen expect no new governmenteconomic packages or incentives before then.    "Some people are nervous about what the government will doafter the election," one banker said. "They normally try to dothings before the IGGI (Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia)meeting (in June) to prove they are doing something about theeconomy to show they deserve a couple of billion dollars."    The IGGI, which groups 14 industrialised donor countriesand four agencies, gave Indonesia 2.5 billion dlrs in softloans and grants last year. REUTER
 Belgium cuts discount rate to 8.0 pct from 8.50 -  A spokesman for PreussagAG <PRSG.F> said it was not yet certain whether the companywould pay a dividend on 1986 results    He was commenting on a Preussag statement which saidresults in 1986 were lower than in 1985. Preussag hasfrequently said its results came under further pressure in 1986following a difficult year in 1985.    Managing board chairman Guenther Sassmannshausen said inDecember the board would prefer to stick to its policy of notdipping into reserves to pay dividends. The spokesman noted thefinal dividend decision rests with the supervisory board.    The Preussag statement said results fell in 1986 comparedwith 1985 because declines in earnings in metals, oil andshipping were not entirely compensated by positive trends inthe group's other divisions.    The spokesman said it was not clear whether the domesticgroup would show a net profit in 1986, adding this would dependpartly on the level of provisions.    Preussag cut its 1985 dividend to eight marks from ninemarks on 1984 results after parent company net profit droppedto 65.0 mln marks from 103.0 mln the year before.    The Preussag world group made a net loss of 13.1 mln marksin 1985 after a net profit of 154.5 mln the year before.Domestic group net profit fell to 77.9 mln from 122.2 mln.    The statement said its results in 1986 were affected byunsatisfactory selling prices for metals and oil as well as bypoor use of capacity in the supply ship sector.    The reduction in natural gas prices in the fourth quarterof 1986 to reflect earlier falls in oil prices was anadditional factor behind the drop in results.    Preussag said rationalization measures already introducedwould not begin to take full effect until this year.    Preussag's domestic group turnover rose to 4.48 billionmarks in 1986 from 4.29 billion in 1985, helped by the firsttime consolidation of 951.8 mln marks of turnover from itsmajority-owned oil and gas subsidiary C. Deilmann AG.    Domestic group turnover in the 1986 fourth quarter alonewas 1.1 billion marks, it said without giving comparisonfigures.    Preussag said its domestic crude oil production fell 4.0pct to 94,400 tonnes in 1986, while foreign oil production roseto 182,900 tonnes from 174,500 tonnes.    Preussag said its Amalgamated Metal Corporation Plc (AMC)subsidiary, whose results are included in the world groupaccounts, made an unspecified profit in the fourth quarter oflast year.    AMC's large losses in 1985, caused principally by theinternational tin crisis, were the reason behind the worldgroup losses that year. REUTER
SPAIN EXTENDS RESERVE REQUIREMENT The Bank of Spain has extended thereserve requirement for banks to their convertible peseta fundsin an attempt to curb speculation in short-term capital whichis currently fuelling money supply growth.    In a statement issued late last night, the central banksaid convertible peseta accounts, funds which are not subjectto exchange controls, would also be subject to a 19 pct reserverequirement with effect from Friday.    Convertible peseta funds had been previously exempt fromreserve requirements.    The measure comes one week after the central bank raisedreserve requirements on domestic deposits by one percentagepoint to 19 pct, also with effect on Friday.    Banking sources say the high real interest rates on offernow -- around eight pct for overnight funds -- have attracted alarge influx of speculative foreign capital which isthreatening the government's monetary targets.    They say this influx is largely responsible for Spain'sprincipal measure of money supply, the broad-based liquidassets in public hands (ALP), to have grown by an estimated 17pct annualised rate in February, compared with January's 8.3pct rise and an 11.4 pct rise during the whole of 1986. Thetarget for 1987 is eight pct.    The Bank of Spain today did not provide assistance funds tobanks in a move to drain excess liquidity from the moneymarket. Liquidity will be further tightened by the fortnightlyTreasury Bill auction tomorrow and Friday's hike in reserverequirements, expected to absorb over 200 billion pesetas fromthe system.    The immediate reaction was a hike in interbank interestrates today to 13.75/14.00 pct from yesterday's 13.46 pctaverage for deposits.    Bank of Spain officials said this was an understandableresponse "given that the market is short of funds."    But banking sources noted that a continued rise in interestrates would neutralize the central bank's attempts to curtailshort-term speculation with foreign funds by making the Spanishmoney markets more attractive. REUTER
SUMITA SAYS LITTLE ROOM FOR BANK TO EASE POLICY Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumitasaid there is little room left for the central bank to furtherease its credit policy as interest rates levels are nowapproaching their lower limit.    "The government should instead seek ways of making the bestuse of its fiscal policy," he told a press conference.    His remarks were concerned with a comprehensive economicstimulative package the government plans to adopt in the comingdays.    At the recent talks among the six major industrialisednations in Paris, Japan promised to work out a comprehensiveeconomic package to boost domestic demand, which in turn wouldhelp increase its imports and reduce its trade surplus.    Sumita also said the economy will show a gradual upturn inthe second half of the year if the yen remains stable.    He said there is caution in the foreign exchange marketagainst a further rise of the yen and mark and this explainsthe recent stability in the currency markets. Conflictingeconomic indicators from the U.S. Have also been dampeningmarket activity, he added. REUTER
U.S. URGES BANKS TO WEIGH PHILIPPINE DEBT PLAN The U.S. is urging reluctantcommercial banks to seriously consider accepting a novelPhilippine proposal for paying its interest bill and believesthe innovation is fully consistent with its Third World debtstrategy, a Reagan administration official said.    The official's comments also suggest that debtors' pleasfor interest rate concessions should be treated much moreseriously by the commercial banks, in cases where developingnations are carrying out genuine economic reforms.    In addition, he signaled that the banks might want toreconsider the idea of a "megabank," where Third World debt wouldbe pooled, and suggested the administration would support sucha plan, even though it was not formally proposing it. At thesame time, however, the official expressed reservations thatsuch a scheme would ever get off the ground.    The Philippine proposal, together with Argentinesuggestions that "exit bonds" be issued to end the troublesomerole of small banks in the debt strategy, would help tounderpin the flagging role of private banks within the plan,the official said in an interview with Reuters.    "All of these things would fit within the definition of ourinitiative as we have asked it and we think any novel andunique approach such as those should be considered," said theofficial, who asked not to be named.    In October 1985, Washington outlined a debt crisis strategyunder which commercial banks and multilateral institutions suchas the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF)were urged to step up lending to major debtors nations.    In return, America called on the debtor countries to enacteconomic reforms promoting inflation-free economic growth.    "The multilaterals have been performing well, the debtorshave been performing well," said the official. But he admittedthat the largest Third World debtor, Brazil, was clearly anexception.    The official, who played a key role in developing the U.S.Debt strategy and is an administration economic policymaker,also said these new ideas would help commercial banks improvetheir role in resolving the Third World debt crisis.    "We called at the very beginning for the bank syndicationsto find procedures or processes whereby they could operate moreeffectively," the official said.    Among those ideas, the official said, were suggestions thatcommercial banks create a "megabank" which could swap Third Worlddebt paper for so-called "exit bonds" for banks like regionalAmerican or European institutions.    Such bonds in theory would rid these banks of the need tolend money to their former debtors every time a new moneypackage was assembled, and has been suggested by Argentina inits current negotiations for a new loan of 2.15 billion dlrs.    He emphasised that the "megabank" was not an administrationplan but "something some people have suggested."    Other U.S. Officials said Japanese commercial banks areexamining the creation of a consortium bank to assume ThirdWorld debt. This plan, actively under consideration, woulddiffer slightly from the one the official described.    But the official expressed deep misgivings that such a planwould work in the United States.    "If the banks thought that that was a suitable way to go,fine. I don't think they ever will."    He pointed out that banks would swap their Third Worldloans for capital in the megabank and might then be reluctantto provide new money to debtors through the new institution.    Meanwhile, the official praised the Philippine plan underwhich it would make interest payments on its debt in cash at nomore than 5/8 pct above Libor.    "The Philippine proposal is very interesting, it's quiteunique and I don't think it's something that should becategorically rejected out of hand," the official said.    Banks which found this level unacceptably low would beoffered an alternative of Libor payments in cash and a marginabove that of one pct in the form of Philippine InvestmentNotes.    These tradeable, dollar-denominated notes would have asix-year life and if banks swapped them for cash beforematurity, the country would guarantee a payment of 7/8 pointover Libor.    Until now, bankers have criticised these spreads as far toolow. The talks, now in their second week, are aimed atstretching out repayments of 3.6 billion dlrs of debt andgranting easier terms on 5.8 billion of already rescheduleddebt. The country, which has enjoyed strong political supportin Washington since Corazon Aquino came to power early lastyear, owes an overall 27.8 billion dlrs of debt.    But the official denied the plan amounts to interest ratecapitalisation, a development until now unacceptable to thebanks. "It's no more interest rate capitalisation than if youhave a write down in the spread over Libor from what existedbefore," the official said in comments suggesting some ought tobe granted the rate concessions they seek. "Some people arguethat (cutting the spread) is debt forgiveness... What it reallyis is narrowing the spread on new money," he added.    He said the U.S. Debt strategy is sufficiently broad as aninitiative to include plans like the Philippines'. Reuter
BRAZIL'S GROS TO MEET BANKS ON TRADE LINE ISSUE Brazil's central bank governorFrancisco Gros will meet senior commercial bankers here todayin a new attempt to defuse the anger generated by the country'sunilateral suspension of interest payments on 68 billion dlrsof foreign commercial bank debt, bankers said.    Gros will meet representatives of Citibank, the head ofBrazil's bank advisory committee, and of co-heads MorganGuaranty Trust Co and Lloyds Bank Plc.    High on the agenda will be banks' complaints about Brazil'saccompanying freeze on some 15 billion dlrs of short-term tradeand interbank lines, the bankers said.    Brazil's several hundred creditor banks worldwide agreedlast March to extend the credit lines until March 31, 1987, aspart of a 31 billion dlr financing package.    Bankers said the looming expiry of this commitment, coupledwith Brazil's freeze, raised a spate of technical and legalquestions that the banks want to discuss with Gros.    They said they face problems because of the freezerequirement that any payment due to be made by a Brazilian bankunder the trade facility must be deposited instead with thecentral bank. This means foreign bankers cannot easily switchtheir credit lines from one borrower to another.    The requirement to deposit with the central bank has alsomeant Brazilian banks have been able to negotiate lowerinterest-rate spreads, because foreign banks would ratheraccept a reduced margin than see their money deposited with thecentral bank.    "It's caused a lot of ill-will with the banking community,"one banker said.    Gros is also expected to brief the banks on the results ofa 10-day tour of Europe and Japan that he and finance ministerDilson Funaro have just completed to seek official support forBrazil's debt stance. REUTER
BANKERS TRUST CO RAISES BROKER LOAN RATE Bankers Trust Co said it raised itsbroker loan rate to 7-1/4 pct from seven pct, effectiveimmediately.    U.S. Trust Co, which also quotes its broker loan ratepublicly, is posting a 7-1/2 pct rate. Reuter
NATIONAL SAVINGS MOVE POINTS TO LOWER U.K. RATES U.K. Interest rates look set to movelower even after Monday's half-point cut in bank base rates to10-1/2 pct, analysts said, citing as evidence the suspension ofa British National Savings issue yesterday.    The Department of National Savings, effectively a TreasuryDepartment unit, yesterday suspended its 32nd issue, launchedin October and paying a high tax-free 8-3/4 pct on five-yearprivate investments between 25 and 5,000 stg. A spokesman saidthe suspension was just a reaction to yields on nationalsavings bonds being way out of line with the rest of themarket.    The move was followed by a surprise sell-out within minutestoday of a Bank of England one-billion stg tap issue, thesecond such issue in as many weeks, analysts noted.    They said the near-instant sale of the entire new giltsissue, for which the Bank of England had required a high 40 pctdownpayment, was clear evidence that the market thought rateshad to drop sooner rather than later.    The sale of the tranche of 8-3/4 pct treasury bonds due1997 occurred in an active, bullish gilts market as downwardpressure on money market rates remained intact, with thebellwether three-month interbank rate down 1/8 point at10-9-7/8 pct.     It coincided with another strong sterling rally whichpushed the pound to four-year highs against the dollar.    "That government stock disappeared very quickly indeed," saidStephen Lewis, head of economic research at stockbrokersPhillips and Drew; "It is an indication that the market believesrates are going to fall further ... At least by a half-pointimmediately after the budget (on March 17), and some peoplehope for more."    Stockbrokers James Capel said in a comment the move by theNational Savings Department was "of considerable significance."    It said, "the real message ... Is that the decks are beingquickly cleared so as to facilitate a speedy decision by thebuilding societies to cut their rates when the inevitable cutin bank base rates to 10 pct materialises."    Building societies have said a drop in bank base rateswould normally have to exceed half a point to give rise to areduction in mortgage lending rates.    Lewis of Phillips and Drew said he too believed theNational Savings issue suspension may reflect new U.K. Treasurypolicy to point building societies towards a mortgage rate cut.    "National Savings has been competing too effectively withthe building societies of late. Building society income hasbeen depressed in recent months," he said.    He and other analysts said Chancellor of the ExchequerNigel Lawson was keen to see mortgage rates fall to keep a lidon U.K. Inflation.    Underlying upward pressure on prices is stronger in Britainthan in most other Western economies with inflation seen risingwell above four pct this year and above five pct in 1988 afterlast year's 3.7 pct.    Emphasising the impact of mortgage rates on consumerprices, Lewis said a one-point cut in building society rateswould reduce inflation in Britain by about 0.4 pct.    But Lewis and others noted that building societies had beencomplaining to the government about intense competition fromNational Savings, which they argued reduced the scope for earlymortgage rate cuts.    "The Chancellor need not be worried about losing some PSBRfunding from National Savings, but he must be taking thebuilding societies' criticism to heart. It looks like theNational Savings move reflects this," one senior dealer said.    A Savings Department spokesman refused to comment on thisinterpretation, saying the suspension of the issue was merely areaction to the recent fall in U.K. Interest rates, which hadpushed yields on national savings bonds way out of line withthe rest of the market.    "We are not politically motivated ... Funding was justbecoming too expensive and we don't need all that money," hetold Reuters, adding the department had suspended issues atleast twice in the past, when offered interest rates were aboveor below market rates.    He said demand for the issue had risen sharply of late asU.K. Money market rates continued their steady decline andincome was threatening to overshoot an unofficial three billionstg target set for fiscal 1986 ending March 31.    In the first 10 months of fiscal 1986, National Saving'scontribution to government funding totalled 2.72 billion stg,compared with 2.01 billion stg in the same period of theprevious year, official figures show.    Figures for February, out on Monday, are expected to show afurther increase of between 300 and 400 mln stg, pushing thetotal for 11 months above target, government officials said. REUTER
U.K. BANKS OFFER FIXED-RATE MORTGAGES AT 10.2 PCT Two major U.K. Clearing banks announcedthey will offer a total of 800 mln stg in new mortgages at afixed interest rate of 10.2 pct for the first three years,below current bank base lending rates of 10.5 pct.    Midland Bank Plc <MDBL.L> said it has initially allocated500 mln stg for home loans at this rate, while Lloyds Bank Plc<LLOY.L> will offer 300 mln stg.    Earlier this week, Midland said it would cut its standardrate of mortgage payment to 11.5 pct from April 1, following ahalf a percentage point reduction in leading banks' baselending rates from 11 pct.    Building society and other bank mortgage rates are largelystill well above the new base rate level, although last yearLloyds offered a fixed rate of 9.9 pct on certain home loans.    A Midland spokesman said his bank calculated that at thecurrent level of 2.7 billion stg, its existing mortgage bookaccounts for about 5 pct of the total British home loan market.    Lloyds said it has 3.6 billion stg in outstanding mortgageloans, but had not estimated its total market share.    Among other major clearing banks, Barclays Plc <BCS.L> andNational Westminister Bank Plc <NWBL.L> said they had noimmediate plans to announce similar fixed rate schemes. Reuter
PHILIPPINE DEBT TALKS DELAYED FOR CONSULTATIONS Today's debt rescheduling talksbetween the Philippines government and its bank advisorycommittee were postponed until Thursday to give the banks moretime to consider Manila's novel proposal for paying part of itsinterest bill in notes instead of cash, bankers said.    The committee banks met briefly earlier today and decidedthat they needed more time in particular to consider a newsreport which quoted a Reagan Administration official as urgingthat the proposal be given serious consideration.    "The banks felt that this was new information and thatfurther consultation was called for," one banker said.        In a despatch yesterday from Washington, Reuters quoted theofficial as saying Manila's plan to pay some interest withnotes that could be converted into equity investments in thePhilippines was fully consistent with the Reagan Administrationstrategy for handling developing country debt.    "The Philippine proposal is very interesting, it's quiteunique and I don't think it's something that should becategorically rejected out of hand," the official said.    Because of the key role the U.S. plays in the debt crisis,foreign banks in particular wanted time to analyze thesignificance of the policymaker's comments, bankers said. Reuter
U.S. ECONOMIC DATA KEY TO DEBT FUTURES OUTLOOK U.S. economic data this week could bethe key in determining whether U.S. interest rate futures breakout of a 3-1/2 month trading range, financial analysts said.    Although market expectations are for February U.S. retailsales Thursday and industrial production Friday to show healthygains, figures within or slightly below expectations would bepositive for the market, the analysts said.    "You have to be impressed with the resiliency of bondsright now," said Smith Barney Harris Upham analyst CraigSloane.    Treasury bond futures came under pressure today whichtraders linked to a persistently firm federal funds rate and arise in oil prices. However, when sufficient selling interestto break below chart support in the June contract failed tomaterialize, participants who had sold bond futures earlyquickly covered short positions, they said.    "Everyone is expecting strong numbers, and if they come inas expected it won't be that bad for the market," Sloane said.    Sloane said the consensus estimate for the non-auto sectorof retail sales is for a rise of 0.6 to 0.7 pct.    Dean Witter analyst Karen Gibbs said a retail sales figurebelow market forecasts would give a boost to debt futures, andshe put the range for the non-auto sector of retail sales at up0.8 to 1.2 pct.    Industrial production and the producer price index Fridayboth are expected to show increases of about 0.5 pct, sheadded.    Retail sales "will tell us whether or not we will be ableto fill the gap," Gibbs said, referring to a chart gap in Junebonds between 100-26/32 and 101-3/32 created Friday. June bondsclosed at 100-4/32 today.    Also key to debt futures direction, in addition to thefederal funds rate, is the direction of crude oil prices, saidCarroll McEntee and McGinley Futures analyst Brian Singer.    "A higher fed funds rate and firm oil prices precluded themarket from breaking out of the trading range the last time themarket approached the top of the range," Singer said.    In order for bonds to break above the top of the range,which is just below 102 in the June contract, "the crude oilrally needs to run its course and pull back a little bit,"Singer said. "Fed funds are already easing back down toward thesix pct level."    The recent surge in oil prices has also been a concern toManufacturers Hanover Futures analyst Jim Rozich, but the rallymay be nearing a top around 18.50 dlrs per barrel, he said.    Rozich said he is looking for the June bond contract toease to 99-6/32 and find support.    "I'm not quite ready to jump on the bullish bandwagon yet.The jury is still out this week," Rozich said. Reuter
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN EARLY ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it had boughtbills worth 1.059 billion stg from the market for resale onMarch 31 at rates of interest between 10-7/16 pct and 10-17/32pct.    Earlier, the Bank said it estimated the liquidity shortagein the market today at around 1.55 billion stg. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 442 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it provided themarket with a further 442 mln stg assistance during the morningto offset a liquidity shortage it estimated at 1.60 billionstg, revised up from 1.55 billion    The bank bought outright eight mln stg of band one treasurybills and five mln stg of band one bank bills at 10-3/8 pct.    It bought a further 429 mln stg of bills for resale to thediscount houses on April 2 at an interest rate of 10-7/16 pct.    So far today, the bank has given the market assistanceworth a total of 1.501 billion stg. REUTER
UK MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER TWO MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it gave themarket further assistance of two mln stg during the afternoon,buying that amount of band two bank bills at 10-5/16 pct.    The bank has given the market assistance worth 1.503billion stg today to offset a shortage it estimated at arevised 1.60 billion. REUTER
FED NOT EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES The Federal Reserve is not expected tointervene in the government securities market today, severaleconomists said.    They said the Fed does not have a much of an adding needthis week and may wait until tomorrow or Monday beforesupplying reserves.    But a few economists said there was an outside chance thatthe Fed may inject reserves indirectly via a small round ofcustomer repurchase agreements.    Federal funds hovered at 6-1/8 pct this morning afteraveraging 6.32 pct yesterday. Reuter
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange two billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a spokeswoman said.    Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-1/8 pct whenthe Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves tothe banking system. Reuter
CANADA 91-DAY T-BILLS AVERAGE 7.03 PCT, MAKING BANK RATE  North American Holding Corpsaid it expects to have record fourth quarter earnings and forsales to exceed 10 mln dlrs.    For the fourth quarter ended March 30, 1986 the companyreported net income of 631,720 dlrs on sales of 5.2 mln dlrs.    It also said it expects revenues for the year to exceed 30mln dlrs. For fiscal 1986, North American reported a net lossof 126,900 dlrs on sales of 12.8 mln dlrs. Reuter
CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE CUTS PRIME RATE TO 8.75 PCT FROM 9.25 -  The following proposed securitiesofferings were filed recently with the Securities and ExchangeCommission:    Caterpillar Financial Services Corp, subsidiary ofCaterpillar Inc <CAT> - Shelf offering of up to 300 mln dlrs ofdebt securities, including debentures and notes, throughunderwriters that may include Goldman, Sachs and Co.    PacifiCorp <PPW> - Shelf offering of up to six mln sharesof no par serial preferred stock with a total liquidationpreference of 150 mln dlrs.    Hadson Corp <HADS> - Offering of 3.75 mln shares of commonstock through Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc and PaineWebber Inc.    Hydrogen Power Inc - Initial public offering of three mlnshares of Class B common stock, with a minimum of two mlnshares at five dlrs each needed to be sold.    Reuter
ROYAL BANK OF CANADA LOWERS PRIME RATE TO 8-3/4 PCT,  The Department of Trade and Industry,DTI, has issued insider dealing charges against a formeremployee of British and Commonwealth Shipping Co Plc <BCOM.L>,a DTI statement said.    DTI is charging Ronald Richard Jenkins, until recentlyemployed by British and Commonwealth's subsidiary Cayzer Irvineand Co Ltd. He is to appear April 27 in a London court.    The summons is the second insider dealing prosecutionlaunched by the government under recent legislation.    The charges allege two insider dealing offences insecurities of B and C and <Steel Brothers Holdings Plc>.    A DTI spokesman said plans to prosecute follow a probe intothe matter since mid-December by a lawyer and a London StockExchange official who were officially appointed by the DTI asinspectors.    In November, B and C said an unnamed employee had resignedafter he was discovered buying shares in Steel Brothers justbefore B and C announced an agreed bid for the 55 pct of Steelwhich it did not already own.    The attempted trade, which was subsequently cancelled,covered 2,500 Steel shares purchase at 595p compared with a bidprice at 630p. Reuter
OTTAWA SEEKS EXPLANATION OF CREDIT CARD RATES Minister of State for Finance Tom Hockinsaid he has asked the Canadian Bankers Association, an industrylobby group, for an explanation of the level of credit cardinterest rates.    Hockin said he hopes to here the association's response onthe "important" issue soon. Hockin was responding to questionsin the House of Commons about why credit card rates, which runas high as 28 pct per year, remain high when other rates arefalling.    Today, the Canadian bank rate fell to 7.28 pct from 7.54pct last week and the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce cutits prime rate, effective tomorrow, to 8.75 pct from 9.25 pct. Reuter
BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA CUTS PRIME RATE TO 8-3/4 PCT FROM 9-1/4 PCT, EFFECTIVE  Command Airways said itsFebruary load factor rose to 40.4 pct from 39.0 pct, availableseat miles rose to 9.6 mln from 7.1 mln last year and revenuepassenger miles rose to 3.9 mln from 2.8 mln.    For the year to date, Command's load factor rose to 40.6pct from 38.1 pct, revenue passenger miles rose to 37.0 mlnfrom 27.8 mln and available seat miles rose to 91.2 mln from72.7 mln. Reuter
FED DATA INDICATE NO POLICY CHANGE LIKELY U.S. bank reserve, monetary anddiscount window borrowings data released by the Federal Reservetoday clearly indicate that policy is "on hold" and may not bechanged for weeks or even months, economists said.    "The Fed is keeping policy at dead center and it is notabout to change policy unless something fairly dramatic occurson the economy," said John Williams of Bankers Trust Co.    "These numbers contain no hint that a policy shift is inprospect, nor do economic or financial developments argue forpolicy change," said William Griggs of Griggs and Santow Inc.    Fed data released today were all in line with economists'expectations and similar to the numbers of recent weeks.    The Fed said net discount window borrowings in the twoweeks ended Wednesday averaged 191 mln dlrs, up from 381 mlndlrs in the February 25 statement period, but little changedfrom 160 mln dlrs in the period before that.    It said that banks' net free reserves in the latest twoweeks averaged 660 mln dlrs versus 675 mln dlrs previously.    Finally, the Fed said that the M-1 money supply fell 800mln dlrs in February, with the broader M-2 measure down 1.6billion dlrs and M-3 up an even three billion dlrs.    Analysts said that M-1 last month grew at a negative 1.3pct annual rate compared with minus 0.7 pct for M-2 and actualpositive growth of 1.0 pct annualized for M-3.    February levels of M-2 and M-3 left the aggregates 18.2 and20.8 billion dlrs under their respective upper growth limitsset by the Fed for 1987. The annual growth target for both is5-1/2 to 8-1/2 pct. There is no M-1 target.    "In the near term, there is absolutely no reason for theFed to ease policy, even apart from the slowdown in moneygrowth," said Stephen Slifer, economist at Lehman GovernmentSecurities Inc.    Economists generally expect a modest pickup in monetarygrowth in March after February's anemic growth rates. However,they stress that money growth will not be strong enough toprevent the Fed from dropping interest rates further if theeconomy shows evidence of weakness.    Commenting on February's decline in the key M-2 aggregate,Slifer said the main cause was a 3.2 billion dlr drop in moneymarket deposits at banks. This number has risen three to fourbillion dlrs a month for a long while, he said, so February'sweakness is not likely to persist. Slifer expects modest M-2and M-3 growth rates of 3-1/2 to four pct during March.    Griggs said that M-2 and M-3 in coming months should returnto the five to seven pct annualized growth region and socontinue to present no problem for the Fed.    Economists said the Fed appears to be very comfortable withits current policy stance and it is likely to wait for perhapsseveral more months of economic data before deciding whether ornot to ease its grip on reserves.    Given the economy's fragility in many sectors, the analystsagreed that there is almost no chance that the Fed will chooseto raise, rather than lower, interest rates when it nextchanges policy.    "Discount window borrowings in the past week were about aslow as the Fed can get them, although Fed funds held above sixpct," said Williams of Bankers Trust. Funds averaged 6.12 pctin the week to Wednesday, up from 6.06 pct in the prior week.    The Fed added reserves indirectly via one billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements last Friday, 2.5 billion dlrs onMonday and two billion dlrs on Wednesday. On Tuesday, it addedreserves directly through two-day System repurchases.    Williams and Griggs agreed the Fed will let the funds ratebe largely market-driven. They said it is focusing instead on aborrowings target of around 300 mln dlrs. Reuter
 London - Floating rate note prices open sharply lower, dea Net Loss 688 mln Swiss francs vs. Loss756 mln    Gross sales 5.93 billion vs. 8.51 billion    Operating income 198 mln francs vs 256 mln    Net extraordinary charges 592 mln vs 472 mln    Note - Company plans 50 pct capital reduction, banks toconvert 300 mln francs of credit facilities to subordinatedloans. No immediate plans for capital increase. Company fullname Schweizerische Aluminium AG. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 478 MLN STG EARLY HELP The Bank of England said it provided themarket with 478 mln stg of early assistance to help ease aliquidity shortage it estimated at 1.10 billion stg.    It made outright purchases of seven mln stg of band onebank bills at 10-3/8 pct and 30 mln stg of band two bank billsat 10-5/16 pct.    In addition, it bought 294 mln stg of paper for resale tothe market on March 30 and 147 mln stg for resale on April 8,in both cases at an interest rate of 10-7/16 pct. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 168 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it provided themoney market with a further 168 mln stg of assistance to helpoffset a shortage it now estimated at 1.05 billion stg, reviseddown from 1.10 billion.    It bought 21 mln stg of bank bills outright, 20 mln in bandone at 10-3/8 pct and one mln in band two at 10-5/16 pct. Inaddition, it bought 98 mln stg of bills for resale on March 30and 49 mln stg for resale April 8 at an interest rate of10-7/16 pct. All these rates are the same as for today'searlier help.    So far today, the bank has provided the market withassistance worth 646 mln stg.    The bank also announced the rates applicable to temporarylending facilities rolled over today.    The average mid-market rate for lending rolled over for oneweek is 10-15/16 pct and for two weeks 10-5/8 pct. REUTER
UK MONEY MARKET GIVEN LATE HELP OF 185 MLN STG The Bank of England said it gave themoney market late, unspecified assistance of around 185 mlnstg.    This takes the total liquidity injected into the system bythe bank today to 1.026 billion stg compared with a shortage itestimated at around one billion stg.    Overnight interbank sterling dipped to 10 nine pct afterthe bank's announcement compared with levels around 10-1/2 pctshortly before and 11-1/4 11 pct initially today, dealers said. REUTER
FED SEEN CONTENT WITH U.S. FEBRUARY ECONOMY U.S. February reports reflecting slimgains in industrial output and moderating inflation pressuresreinforced expectations that the Federal Reserve will continueto follow a stable course of monetary policy, economists said.    "If you're the Fed, there's no reason to do anything," saidSteve Slifer of Lehman Government Securities Inc.    "There are hints that GNP is picking up. On the inflationfront, all is well," he said. "Money supply is well undercontrol. It's an absolutely ideal situation."    February U.S. industrial production rose 0.5 pct, slightlyless than the 0.7 pct gain the financial markets had expected.This compared with a slim 0.1 pct rise in January's productionnumber, previously reported as a 0.4 pct increase.    The February U.S. producer price index gained only 0.1 pct,less than a 0.3-0.4 pct expected rise. This followed a 0.6 pctrise in the PPI in January.    "The Fed is going to look at this positively," said AllanLeslie of Discount Corporation. "Certainly inflation is not asbad as what Volcker (Fed Chairman) has said lately. Industrialproduction growth is along the lines of what the Fed wants."    The energy products component of PPI rose 4.0 pct inFebruary, after a 9.8 pct increase in January.    "This shows that the impact of energy prices on inflationis behind us in terms of the move from 15 dlrs to 18 dlrs perbarrel," said Maria Ramirez of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. "Thetrend is still 3.5 pct in the first half of the year."    In 1986, declining energy prices contributed to a 2.5 pctdecline in the PPI.    Economists said that a rise in energy prices was expected,but a sharp drop in auto prices was not. Passenger car pricesfell 3.4 pct and light truck prices dropped 1.3 pct.    Yesterday, Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker said thata possibility of renewed inflation remains a concern in boththe financial markets and the Federal Reserve.    "The Fed may be lowering its own inflation expectationstoday," said Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities International.    While low inflation permits the Fed to maintain an easiermonetary policy, Brusca said if import prices do not rise thiscould necessitate a weaker dollar.    "The outlook for the dollar is still up in the air," hesaid. "We need inflation for U.S. producers to compete withforeign producers."    Brusca said prices of electronic equipment dropped 0.8 pctin February's PPI. With many electronic goods producedoverseas, this may show that foreign producers are not raisingprices which bodes ill for U.S. competitiveness, he said.    If further dollar declines are needed, this could diminishoverseas investment in U.S. debt, Brusca added, which mightnecessitate higher interest rates and lower bond prices.    By contrast, Slifer said imported goods prices rose 11.8pct from first quarter 1985 to first quarter 1986 reflecting toa large degree a 22 pct drop in the trade-weighted real valueof the dollar from February 1985 to February 1987.    Slifer said import prices may rise further asmanufacturers' contracts put in place before the dollar droppedto current levels expire, and new contracts are made thatreflect a weaker dollar.    David Wyss of Data Resources Inc noted that importedmanufactured goods prices rose 8.5 pct at an annual rate in thesecond half of 1986, which has contributed to rising U.S.industrial output.    "It's the other side of the lower dollar," Wyss said."Producers are beginning to find themselves more competitiveand they are increasing output."    Wyss said that the latest data point to an averageindustrial production gain of 0.3-0.4 pct in the first quarter."It's an encouraging sign that the manufacturing sector isbeginning to revive."    But Stephen Roach of Morgan Stanley and Co Inc was not convinced that the February reports portend economic gains. Hesaid much of the strength came from factors that do not pointto a sustained rise in industrial output.    Roach pointed out that stikers returning to work in farmequipment industries helped account for a one pct rise inFebruary business equipment production.    Utilities output rose 0.7 pct in February after gaining 1.2pct in January, but Roach said it shows mostly that more energywas produced, not that manufacturing activity gained.    Finally, he pointed out that auto production accounted forhalf of the industrial production gain as production of autoassemblies rose to 8.3 million units at an annual rate from 7.5million units.    "In the first quarter, it looks like automakers areproducing at an 8.5 mln unit annual rate, but selling atroughly a seven mln unit rate," Roach said. "The disparitybetween output and sales is showing up in inventories."    Economists pointed to sharp rise in January U.S. businessinventories as a sign that production may be outstrippingdemand in the first quarter of 1987.    January business inventories rose 0.9 pct, the largest gainsince July 1979 when inventories rose 1.7 pct, the CommerceDepartment said. Business sales dropped 4.5 pct in January, thelargest monthly sales drop on record.    Nonetheless, economists do not expect the Fed to react tomonth-to-month changes. "The Fed has been standing pat for thelast seven months," Ramirez said. "They will continue to standpat for at least the next couple of months." Reuter
TRADING RANGE LIKELY TO CONTINUE IN DEBT FUTURES U.S. economic data due out next week isunlikely to hold any surprises that will shake U.S. interestrate futures out of their relatively narrow trading range ofthe last 3-1/2 months, financial analysts said.    "People don't seem to have any firm conviction about thecurrent strength of the economy or about the Federal Reservedoing anything," said Drexel Burnham Lambert analyst NormanMains.    The narrow range trading is also taking its toll on tradingvolume, he noted. "We've had a decline in activity as recenteconomic statistics have not greatly changed people'sviewpoints on interest rates," Mains said.    The data, which has provided not clear-cut view of theeconomy, coupled with dampened activity in the foreign exchangemarkets after the Paris initiative has made for "less thanebullient market action," Mains said.    He added, however, that Treasury bond futures could be infor a retracement after the recent rise as they are near thetop of the trading range.    "My view is that the economy remains relatively strong andmarket participants will see that current prices areunjustified," Mains said.    Refco Inc senior vice president Michael Connery also notedthat the market is showing very little momentum and lacksretail interest. "All of the movement occurs at the opening,"afterwhich volume dwindles and momentum fades, Connery said.    Although data during the week was mildly positive for bondprices, the small rise in February producer prices and downwardrevisions in January retail sales and industrial productionwere "not real exciting," said Prudential Bache analyst FredLeiner.    "There is no one factor that will push us through the highsat this moment," Leiner said.    Next week's revision to fourth quarter U.S. Gross nationalProduct is also likely to be of little interest to the market,said Kleinwort Benson chief financial economist Sam Kahan.Still, forecasts for first quarter GNP could play a role in thedirection of bond prices over the next month.    Kahan said his early estimate for first quarter growth isaround three pct, due largely to a buildup in inventoriesreflected in the January inventory data Friday, which showedthe largest increase since 1979.    "The key question will be not whether there is a largeincrease in first quarter GNP, but whether any increase issustainable or a one shot deal," Kahan said.    He said that a sizable increase in first quarter GNPstemming from an increase in inventories will be a drag onsecond quarter growth.    If that is the case, GNP in the second quarter could easeback to a one to two pct growth rate, Kahan said. Reuter
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 90 MLN STG EARLY HELP The Bank of England said it provided themoney market with assistance worth 90 mln stg in response to anearly round of bill offers from discount houses.    Earlier, the bank estimated the shortage in the systemtoday at some 1.05 billion stg.    The bank bought bills for resale to the market in equalamounts on April 1, 2 and 3 at an interest rate of 10-7/16 pct. REUTER
PHILIPPINES SEES 1987 GOVERNMENT REVENUE UP 26 PCT Philippine government revenue isexpected to rise 26 pct to 99.9 billion pesos this year from79.1 billion in 1986, Finance Secretary Jaime Ongpin said.    In a report to President Corazon Aquino on his department'sperformance during the year ended February 28, Ongpin said atleast 15.9 billion pesos were expected to accrue from new taxreform measures announced last year.    He said the goal for official development assistance (ODA)this year is two billion dlrs, adding that aid donors havecommitted ODA inflows of 1.7 billion dlrs in 1987, up 30 pctfrom 1.3 billion in 1986.    Ongpin said steps planned to provide a sound revenue baseincluded a value added tax (VAT) system due to be introduced in1988. He gave no other details.    He said treasury bill maturities, interest rate levels andthe volume of government securities sold to the private sectorhave improved significantly. "In particular, short-term primeinterest rates which had gone over 40 pct in 1985, are now downto less than 10 pct," he said.    Ongpin said the government's debt-equity scheme, introducedin August last year, had attracted more than 276 mln dlrs worthof applications, but selective evaluation had resulted inapprovals of only 61.8 mln dlrs at end-February.    He said his department aims to accelerate its privatisationprogram and the sale of non-performing assets owned byassociates of former President Ferdinand Marcos to achieve a1987 sales target of four billion pesos which would helpfinance land reform.    Aquino said earlier this month that all the 24 billionpesos the government hopes to raise from the sale of the failedcompanies will be used to finance the land reform plan.    Ongpin also said the government would pursue efforts toobtain 500 mln dlrs in concessional funding for the programfrom a World Bank-led consultative group of multilateral andbilateral aid donors.    The government has said the land reform plan aims todistribute 9.7 mln hectares of land to poor peasants. REUTER
UAE GOVERNMENT PAPER YIELDS UNCHANGED Yields on certificates of depositissued by the United Arab Emirates Central Bank were unchangedat 6-1/8 pct, the bank said.    The yield applies to maturities of one, two, three and sixmonths. REUTER
BUNDESBANK ADDS MONEY MARKET LIQUIDITY The Bundesbank came into the domesticmoney market to add temporary liquidity through federalgovernment funds as call money rates rose above 4.0 pct,dealers said.    They estimated that the bulk of liquidity was added atabout 3.95 pct. Call money fell to 3.90/4.0 pct after the move.It had been 3.80/90 on Friday.    The move came as call money extended a rise begun Fridayafter the Bundesbank took up some six billion marks owed to itby other European central banks after currency interventions inthe framework of European Monetary System in January.    Rates could ease further in trading today but dealersexpect them to rise later in the week as banks begin paying outfunds for tax payments on behalf of clients.    Some 30 billion marks is likely to leave the market thismonth, with the bulk being paid out next week.    In anticipation of this liquidity drain, banks have stockedup reserves at the Bundesbank.    On Thursday, minimum reserve holdings declined to 57.0billion marks from 60.0 billion on Wednesday but were wellabove the 53.2 billion held on Tuesday. Daily average reserveholdings rose slightly to 54.7 billion marks from 54.5 billion.    The daily average reserve holdings were above the level ofaround 51 billion marks dealers said is needed for the requireddaily average for the month.    With the heavy tax drain in March, banks are likely toremain cautious about taking more liquidity out of reservesthan is absolutely necessary.    However, a new securities repurchase pact likely to beadded next week to replace a facility expiring then couldsomewhat offset the drain.    The Bundesbank is expected to allocate more than the 3.4billion marks which is due to be rolled over, dealers said. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 30 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it provided themoney market with a further 30 mln stg assistance.    This brings the Bank's total help so far today to 120 mlnstg and compares with its upward revised estimate that thesystem would face a shortage of some 1.15 billon stg.    The central bank bought bills for resale to the market inequal amounts on April 1, 2 and 3 at an interest rate of10-7/16 pct. REUTER
LEADING INDUSTRIAL NATIONS TO MEET IN APRIL Leading industrial nations will meetagain next month to review their accord on currency stability,but U.S. Officials said financial markets are convinced for nowthe countries will live up to commitments to speed up economicgrowth.    The narrow currency movements of recent weeks stronglysuggests the six leading industrial countries have tamed thenormally unruly financial markets and next month's talks seemlikely to build on that stability.    A Reagan administration official said the Paris agreementlast month was the main reason markets were calm.    But he said in an interview that financial markets alsounderstood, "That all six countries concluded that the measuresto be taken over a period of time in the future should fosterstability of exchange rates around current levels. That is infact what has happened since Paris."    Monetary analysts said stability has been helped in part bythe decision of industrial nations to bury the hatchet andcease to quarrel over short-term policy objectives.    Instead they have focused on medium-term policy goals, butleft room to adjust their agreements with periodic meetings.    The official refused to comment, however, on whether theagreement included a secret pact to consider furthercoordinated interest rate cuts -- a measure industrial nationshave taken jointly several times in the past year.    On February 22, the United States, Japan, West Germany,France, Britain and Canada agreed that major currencies werewithin ranges broadly reflecting underlying economicconditions, given commitments by Washington to cut its budgetdeficit and by Toyko and Bonn to boost economic growth.    The shake-up would strengthen the U.S. Position in futureinternational talks.    "I think these changes will strengthen the President's handpolitically and the stronger he is politically the better offwe are with the Congress and the better off we are ininternational fora," said the official, an Administrationeconomic policymaker. "So it would be beneficial to thecontinued conduct of our initiatives."    But the official also said the Administration would resistcalls for a tax increase to cut the budget deficit -- a targetEuropeans say is crucial to help curb economic instability.    Currency analysts believe the Paris agreement set secret short-term target ranges for their currencies with a specificagreement to defend those bands with intervention.    According to market sources, the ranges agreed were 1.60 to1.90 marks to the dollar, and 140 to 155 yen to the dollar.    There is no official confirmation that specific bands  wereset, although the agreement used the term "ranges", for the firsttime in an international economic agreement.    The Paris accord stated the six would cooperate closely tofoster currency stability around current levels.    Last week, dealers said the Federal Reserve intervened tostop the dollar rising against the mark, which had breached1.86 to the dollar. British authorities are also understood tohave intervened to curb sterling's strength.    International monetary sources say finance ministers andcentral bankers, who will review market performance and theirown economic prospects, will reassemble again in Washingtonjust before the April 9 policymaking meeting of theInternational Monetary Fund.    The sources said Italy, which refused to join the Parispact, was invited back by Treasury Secretary James Baker.    Since Paris, there are signs West German growth is slowing,while U.S. Officials said they were giving Japan until April toshow that an economic stimulus package was in the offing.    Signs of concern about German prospects emerged recentlywhen Bundesbank (central bank) president Karl Otto Poehl toldbankers he would consider cutting West German interest rates ifthe Fed was ready to follow suit.    A Reagan Administration official said this would show therehad been some change in approach on the part of the centralbank in Germany.    But he declined to comment on the prospects for action bythe Fed and the Bundesbank.    "If there is such a provision it is private and if I talkedabout it, it would no longer be private," said the official, whoasked not to be identified.    Public comments by Fed officials suggest the central bankis keeping credit conditions broadly unchanged, but if themajor economies continue to show sluggish growth and the U.S.Trade deficit remains stubbornly high, further coordinatedaction could be on the April agenda. REUTER
STONE CONTAINER ESTABLISHES ONE BILLION DLR BANK CREDIT  Zambia's talks with the World Bank andInternational Monetary Fund (IMF) on a financial rescue packagehave run into difficulties on the issue of food subsidies, anofficial newspaper said.    The Times of Zambia, which is run by the ruling UnitedNational Independence Party (UNIP), quoted official sources assaying the IMF and World Bank had refused to continue financingfood subsidies and were pressing the government to explain howit proposes to pay for them.    President Kenneth Kaunda tried to abolish maize subsidieslast December, in line with IMF recommendations, but the movecaused maize meal prices to double overnight and led to riots.    The subsidies were immediately restored as part of moves toquell the disturbances.    The Times of Zambia said another major issue in thegovernment's current talks with the IMF and World Bank was theremodelling of Zambia's foreign exchange auction.    The central bank's weekly auction of foreign exchange tothe private sector has been suspended since the end of January,pending modifications to slow down the rate of devaluation anddampen fluctuations in the exchange rate.    The kwacha slid to around 15 per dollar under the auction,losing 85 pct of its value in 16 months, but since the end ofJanuary has been revalued to a fixed rate of nine per dollar.    Banking sources said Zambia was persuaded by the World Bankand IMF to lift its proposed ceiling of 12.50 kwacha per dollaron the currency's devaluation once the auctions restart. Reuter
BANK OF FRANCE LEAVES MONEY MARKET INTERVENTION RATE UNCHANGED AT 7-3/4 PCT -  With the April 15 tax return deadlineless than a month away, confused taxpayers will be convergingon H and R Block Inc's offices to interpret the new tax codes.    Financial results for the nation's largest tax preparer areexpected to be good in fiscal 1987 but next year could be a"bonanza," analysts say.    "For the short term the key word is confusion, Block VicePresident Tom Bloch said in an interview. "When Congressdrastically changes laws, confusion results and tax preparersbenefit," Bloch said.    "Next year, when taxpayers take the new forms and placethem side by side to compare them, more people will throw theirhands up and say 'I'm going to get help,'" he said."Tax forms will look very different next year," he added.    Kidder Peabody analyst Herbert Buchbinder expects Block'sfiscal 1987 year (to end April 30) to show good gains overfiscal 1986 earnings of 60.1 mln dlrs or 2.41 dlrs a share onrevenues of 606.7 mln dlrs. He estimates Block's fiscal 1987earnings at 2.75 to 2.80 dlrs.    "Next year, Block could have a bonanza," Buchbinder said.Based on estimates of a larger work force, Block could show again of more than five pct in tax forms prepared, he said. Inthe 1986 tax season, Block prepared 9,215,300 U.S. tax returns,up 1.5 pct over the previous year.    The Internal Revenue Service estimates about 100 mlnindividual income tax returns will be filed for the 1987 taxseason, up from last year's 94 mln forms. Professional taxpreparers accounted for just over 43 million forms, accordingto the IRS.    For the longer term, while confusion will continue to bringclients into Block's 8,866 tax preparation offices worldwide,there are some changes in the act that will have a negativeeffect, Bloch conceded.    Certain changes in filing requirements will shorten the taxreturn, and in some cases, simplify the form, he noted. Inaddition, some low income wage earners will be taken off thetax rolls, he said.    Block is currently analyzing its price structure to try tooffset some of the negatives. Last tax season, the average costfor each return in the U.S. amounted to 48.05 dlrs and 45.73dlrs worldwide, Bloch said. This tax season, rates will be upabout three or four pct, in line with the inflation rate, hesaid.    Block expects "some expansion" this tax season of itselectronic filing system which directly feeds into the IRS andcan speed up the refund process. Block can choose where and byhow much it wants to expand into the seven cities madeavailable for the direct filing by the IRS, Bloch noted.    The IRS estimates about 90,000 returns will be directlyfiled this tax season, up from the 26,000 returns injected inthe 1986 tax season.    First Kansas City analyst Jonathan Braatz said that Blockwill benefit greatly from lower tax rates in fiscal 1988.    Braatz expects Block's advertising budget to be about thesame as last year which will be helped a bit by lower costs fortelevision ads. "They may get a little more bang for theirbuck," he said.    He estimates Block has about 150 mln dlrs cash on itsbalance sheet sheet, and says if interest rates rise it couldbe of great benefit to them. Reuter
FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve is expected tointervene in the government securities market to add reservesvia two to 2.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements,economists said.    Economists said the Fed will inject temporary reservesindirectly to offset pressure on the Federal funds rateassociated with quarterly corporate tax payments to theTreasury department.    Fed funds opened at 6-1/4 pct and remained at that levellate this morning. Friday funds averaged 6.05 pct. Reuter
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA THREE-DAY REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange three-day Systemrepurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.    Dealers said that Federal funds were trading at 6-1/4 pctwhen the Fed began its temporary and direct supply of reservesto the banking system. Reuter
MARKET WELCOMES LOWER AUSTRALIAN PAYMENTS DEFICIT The Australian dollar rose more than 40points and money market interest rates retreated on the betterthan expected improvement in the February current accountdeficit, but economists and dealers were cautious aboutidentifying it as the start of a downward trend.    The current account deficit narrowed to 750 mln dlrs inFebruary from 1.23 billion in January. It hit 13.82 billiondlrs in 1985/86 to end-June.    The currency jumped to 0.6858/63 U.S. Dlrs and traded ashigh as 0.6875 before retreating to around 0.6864/69.    "It's got 69 cents written all over it," one dealer said.    Foreign exchange dealers said some buyers had gone long onthe dollar expecting a lower figure and sold it down about 30points to 0.6820 U.S. Dlrs before the release.    The 750 mln dlr deficit was at the lower end of forecastsand analysts said the market would welcome any figure below onebillion dlrs for March.    Banque National de Paris <BNPP.A> senior dealer PeterNicolls cautioned that in the long term the currency andinterest rates were too high for import substitution and exportindustries.    Nicolls said he expected the dollar to go as high as 0.6875and perhaps to 69 cents tomorrow.    <Lloyds Bank NZA Ltd> chief economist Will Buttrose saidthe 42 mln dlr trade surplus was encouraging as were imports at2.77 billion dlrs, down from 2.99 billion in January.    But he warned that the outlook for rural and iron and coalexports remained poor. "We should remember we are payingsomething like seven to eight billion dollars simply to serviceour foreign debt and that is not going to go away in the nearterm," Buttrose said.    Buttrose said he expected a March deficit of around 900 mlndlrs, and added "Any figure under a billion dollars will beacceptable (to the markets)."    ANZ Banking Group Ltd <ANZA.S> senior economist Ian Littlesaid the big question was whether the improvement in exportscould be sustained. February FOB exports rose to 2.82 billiondlrs from a revised 2.74 billion in January.    Interest rates responded quickly to the deficit news, with90-day bank bill yields falling to 16.42-16.45 pct from earlyhighs of 16.50 and yields yesterday as high as 16.65.    Longer term yields fell with 10-year bonds at 13.66/68 pctfrom 13.74 before the release and highs of 13.87 yesterday.    The stock market was easier at midsession but brokers saidthe current account data had little impact on trading. REUTER
 Danish central bank cuts overnight money market interest rate to 10.5 pct from 11 pct -  Year ended January 31    Parent shr 5.73 yen vs 5.80    Div five yen vs same    Net 7.01 billion vs 6.77 billion    Current 24.06 billion vs 23.76 billion    Operating 37.62 billion vs 45.26 billion    Sales 630.08 billion vs 810.89 billion    NOTE - Company forecast for current year parent div fiveyen, net seven to eight billion, current 24 billion, sales 610billion. REUTER
TAIWAN ISSUES MORE CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT Taiwan's central bank issued 12 billionTaiwan dlrs worth of certificates of deposit after issuing sixbillion yesterday, bringing CD issues so far this year to115.47 billion dlrs, a bank official told Reuters.    The new CDs have maturities of six months, one year and twoyears and bear interest rates ranging from 4.07 pct to 5.12pct, he said.    The issues are aimed at helping curb the growth of M-1bmoney supply, which is the result of large foreign exchangereserves. The reserves now total more than 51 billion U.S.Dlrs. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET RECEIVES NO MORNING ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it did notoperate in the money market in the morning session.    Earlier, the central bank had estimated the deficit in thesystem today at some 450 mln stg. REUTER
FED SETS TWO BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE,  The <New York Stock Exchange> said itis undertaking a review of the long-term effects on securitiesmarkets of computer-driven trading techniques known as programtrading.    The NYSE said, "The study will review major new tradingtechniques involving programmed portfolio hedging and indexarbitrage for their potential benefits and risks to thefinancial system.  It will also explore the regulatoryimplications of these trading techniques and whether theirincreased use could possibly lead to market abuse."    The exchange said a final report is expected before the endof 1987.  It said program trading is becoming increasinglyimportant as a market factor. Reuter
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange two billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.    Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-1/16 pct whenthe Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves tothe banking system. Reuter
ANALYSTS SEE EARLY ONE POINT CUT IN U.K. BASE RATE British bank base lending rates arelikely to fall by as much as one full point to 9-1/2 pct thisweek following the sharp three billion stg cut in the U.K.Central government borrowing target to four billion stg set intoday's 1987 budget, bank analysts said.    The analysts described Chancellor of the Exchequer NigelLawson's budget as cautious, a quality which currency and moneymarkets had already started to reward.    Sterling surged on foreign exchange markets and moneymarket interest rates moved sharply lower as news of the budgetmeasures came through, the analysts said.    Lloyds merchant bank chief economist Roger Bootle said heexpected base rates to be cut by one full point tomorrow.    "This is very much a safety-first budget in order to getinterest rates down," he said.    Bootle said the money markets had almost entirelydiscounted such a one point cut, with the key three monthinterbank rate down to 9-11/16 pct from 9-13/16 last night, andit would be rather conservative for banks to go for ahalf-point cut now.    Midland Bank treasury economist David Simmonds said he,too, expected base rates would be a full point lower by Friday,but this would likely happen via two half-point cuts.    "This budget is designed to please both the markets and theelectorate. The implications for interest rates are veryfavourable, we could have a half-point cut tomrorow and anothersuch cut before the end of the week," Simmonds said.    Pointing to buoyant U.K. Retail data released yesterday, hesaid Lawson had done well to resist pressures for a sharp cutin income tax rates at the expense of a lower borrowing target."There is no real need to boost private consumption," he said.    National Westminster Bank chief economist David Kern saidthe lower borrowing target set in the budget had increased thelikelihood of an early one-point base rate cut.    Kern said the budget would have to be analysed carefully,in particular to see how exactly Lawson planned to achieve thesharper than expected borrowing target cut, before a one-pointbase rate cut could be implemented. But providing the budget small-print was convincing, "and Isuspect it will be, it is entirely possible that we see onepoint off base rates by the end of this week," Kern said.    Bootle of Lloyds said the expected base rate cut would pavethe way for an early one-point cut in mortgage lending rates.This would help achieve Lawson's lower than expected consumerprice inflation target of four pct at end-1987, he said.    U.K. Base rates were cut last week to 10-1/2 pct from 11pct after sustained pressure from the foreign exchange, moneyand government bonds (gilts) markets.    But building societies said they would not cut lendingrates until base rates had fallen by one full point. REUTER
ANALYSTS SAY U.K. BUDGET POINTS TO BASE RATE CUTS Chancellor of the Exchequer NigelLawson's Budget speech was described as sound and well balancedby analysts, if slightly lacking in excitement.    A cut in bank base lending rates is now widely expectedtomorrow, with most forecasts predicting a half-point fall. Afollow-up half-point cut is anticipated next week.    "Worthy but boring would probably sum it up," Peter Fellner,U.K. Economist at stockbrokers James Capel and Co, said. "It wasa very, very prudent fiscal budget."    Richard Jeffrey of brokers Hoare Govett said it was awell-balanced budget within the confines of the government'sphilosophy of keeping expenditure levels flat.    Most analysts said the Budget was very sound on the fiscalside, but offered nothing new on monetary policy.    As was widely expected, Lawson split his "fiscal adjustment"between trimming the 1987/88 PSBR target to 4.0 billion stgfrom 7.1 billion and cutting basic rate income tax from 29 to27 pct.    The target for the narrow measure of money supply, M0, waskept unchangd at two to six pct, while the target for the broadSterling M3 aggregate was dropped.    Both Jeffrey and Fellner said the budget clears the way fora half-point fall in U.K. Base rates tomorrow, but theauthorities are unlikely to sanction a larger cut immediately.Many analysts and currency dealers have forecast a fullone-point cut tomorrow.    "The Bank of England will be loathe to take any action whichit will have to reverse later," Jeffrey said, though he added afurther half-point cut was quite possible in the near future.    The main worry from today's speech is the outlook forinflation, given the signs of relaxed monetary policy containedin it, Scrimgeour Vickers economist Richard Holt said.    Holt noted the "rather loose" inflation forecast of 4.0 pctat end-1987, and said the lower interest rates likely to resultfrom the tough fiscal stance could cause longer term concern.    "A higher PSBR target could be preferable in the long term,"he said, although lower mortgage interest rates on the back offalling base rates would have an offsetting impact oninflation.    The Budget will inspire a lot of short-term confidence butit was "not a good budget for inflation," he said    Jeffrey said he would have liked Lawson to say more aboutthe dangers of excessive liquidity build-up but overall was nottoo concerned about a revival of inflation.    Fellner noted that the exchange rate was to remain the"leading edge" of monetary policy, but said the authorities werelikely to be extremely cautious on this front.    He said they were unlikely to hesitate in holding interestrates steady or even raising them again if sterling showed anysigns of excessive weakness.    Most analysts agreed Lawson had bolstered the credibilityof the Budget by adopting realistic forecasts.    Raising the forecast for the current account deficit from1.5 to 2.5 billion stg for 1987 would not unsettle the markets,which are already discounting that amount, Jeffrey said.that the 4.0 billion stg PSBR target was given credibility bythe favourable outturn for 1986/87, which is now also forecastto be 4.0 billion stg.    But analysts said the Budget speech did not give anyclear-cut indication about the timing of the general election,which has to be held before June, 1988.    Some believe it signals a poll this June, noting that thebenefits, such as income tax cuts and the decision not to raiseduties on alcohol and tobacco, become available immediately.    But others said it kept several options open and it was notpossible to deduce too much from it.    James Capel's Fellner noted that by being fiscally prudent,Lawson had kept open the possibility of an autumn election inthat there would be no "chickens coming home to roost."    Richard Jeffrey, who favours the likelihood of a Juneelection, said it was important the Chancellor had not gone fora Budget aimed overtly at buying an election victory.    Nevertheless, he said, it was likely to result in a boostto the Conservative Party's pre-election popularity. REUTER
U.S. FHL BANKS SETS 6.70 PCT, 7.10 PCT, 7.65 PCT RATES ON 2.55 BILLION D OPEC believes world oil prices shouldbe set around a fixed average price of 18 dlrs a barrel, OAPECAssistant General Secretary Abdelaziz Al-Wattari said today.    In a speech to a European Community (EC)/OAPEC/OPEC seminarin Luxembourg released here, Al-Wattari said: "OPEC believes...The world energy trade should be kept without restrictionsand should be built around a fixed average price of 18 dlrs."    But he warned that defense of the 18 dlr a barrel level hadcaused hardship for OPEC countries, who had been forced tocurtail production, and he warned that such cutbacks by OPECstates could not be sustained in some cases.    "For OPEC to stabilize the world oil price at what is nowconsidered the optimal level of 18 dlrs a barrel, its membercountries have had to undergo severe hardship in curtailingproduction," Al-Wattari said.    "Such cutbacks ... Cannot, in certain cases, be sustained,"Al-Wattari said. As well as financial and marketing pressures,some states depended on associated gas output for domestic useand oil cutbacks had left insufficient gas supplies, he added.    Al-Wattari noted that total OPEC output was below theorganization's agreed ceiling for all member countries inFebruary, although this had meant sacrifices.    The effect of these sacrifices meant that market stability,though restored to a good level, was still under pressure,Al-Wattari said. "A lasting stability in the world marketrequires a wider scope of international cooperation," he added.    He said some non-OPEC oil producing countries had shown apolitical willingness after 1986 to cooperate with OPEC.    But although cutbacks announced by these states werepolitically significant and welcomed by OPEC, they wereinsufficient in terms of volume, he added. "The overall majorityof non-OPEC producers have not responded sufficiently to OPEC'scalls for supply regulation," he said.    Al-Wattari said an 18 dlr a barrel price was optimal as itallowed investment in the oil industry outside OPEC tocontinue, while not generating excessive cash flow forotherwise unviable high-cost areas outside OPEC. Such a pricewould no longer encourage protectionist measures, he added.    Fadhil Al-Chalabi, OPEC Deputy Secretary General, alsoaddressing the seminar, added that discipline was still neededto prevent violent fluctuations in the oil market.    Cooperation between Arab states and Europe was advantageousfor both sides, Al-Chalabi said, adding he hoped cooperationwould ultimately lead to full-fledged Euro-Arab dialogue. Reuter
U.S. FHL BANKS SETS RATES ON DEBT OFFERING The Office of Finance, Federal HomeLoan Banks, said it set rates on today's debt offering of 6.70pct on its 1.11 billion dlr issue, 7.10 pct on a 1.065 billiondlr issue and 7.65 pct on a 375 mln dlr issue.    It said the issues, which are for settlement March 25, mature March 26, 1990, March 25, 1992 and March 25, 1997,respectively.    The office said telephone confirmation of allotments mustbe received by 1500 hrs EST today and that secondary tradingwill begin at 0930 hrs EST tomorrow. Reuter
U.S. HOUSING DATA FAIL TO CLARIFY ECONOMIC PATH Surprisingly strong U.S. housingstatistics for February cannot be taken as an indication thatthe economy is generating any momentum and are not sufficientcause to start lifting forecasts for first quarter growth,economists said.    Building was boosted by two factors last month, unusuallymild weather and low mortgage rates. But economists said thatseasonal factors make it hard to assess what spur to theeconomy, if any, will come from housing in coming months. Andafter a steady retreat, mortgage rates seem to be near bottom.    U.S. housing starts rose 2.6 pct in February to aseasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.851 mln units from 1.804mln in January. It was the highest pace for starts since April1986.    The rate at which permits were issued for future buildingclimbed 4.4 pct to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.764mln units after dropping 11.52 pct to 1.690 mln in January.    "February's weather is usually more adverse for homebuilding. Because of seasonal factors it's difficult todetermine what this means for the economy down the road," saidAllan Leslie of Discount Corp.    The housing report is seasonally-weighted to compensate forweather-related setbacks. As a result, milder temperaturesinflate the statistics.    Economists said that low mortgage rates also were a spur tobuilding last month. But several believe that rates will nowconsolidate before edging up in late spring/early summer.    "Builders are looking at current mortgage rates and saying'Let's do it now'," said Mark Obrinsky of the U.S. League ofSavings Institutions in Washington, whose members supply muchof the financing for home building.    But Obrinsky doubts that there is much more downwardpotential for rates because he foresees higher inflation and some overall improvement in the U.S. economy.    He expects rates to gain 50 to 100 basis points in earlysummer from the 9.50 pct fixed rate effective in February. LastNovember, fixed rate mortgages were about 10.30 pct.    As expected, the strength in housing was concentrated inthe single-family sector. The multi-family area -- whichtypically represents rental units -- remained weak due to highvacancy rates and increased capital costs of such unitsfollowing tax law changes effective January 1.    Single-family starts rose at a 5.6 pct annual pace to 1.317mln units. Multi-family fell 4.1 pct to a 534,000 rate.    "Strength in the single-family sector indicates that lowmortgage rates are doing their job. But we're probably notlooking at a great deal of growth potential," said WardMcCarthy of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.    McCarthy noted that the housing report, together withlarger than expected gains in U.S. employment, industrialoutput and retail sales in February, may cause some observersto start waving "four pct GNP banners" for the first quarter.Gross national product grew 1.3 pct in the fourth quarter.    But McCarthy, who still expects first quarter real GNP tocome in at an annual rate of 2.5 pct or slightly above, is notconvinced that growth will pick up in future.    "The big story is the inventory re-building that's going onnow, not all of which is intentional," he said. For example,U.S. automakers, who are already saddled with high stocks,produced at an annual rate of 8.3 mln units in Februarycompared with domestic car sales of 7.3 mln.    Thus while inventories could contribute to GNP in the firstquarter, they may result in scaled-back production and weakergrowth in the second, he said.    "If most of the first quarter growth is inventory buildingand we cannot identify any improvement in export demand, thenthere is the potential for softness in the second quarter,"agreed Allan Leslie of Discount Corp. He is still evaluatingfirst quarter GNP prospects.    Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker said last week thatcurrent data do not show the worsening in trade has reversed.    "At the same time that we are pumping up inventories in thefirst quarter, we could foresee production slowing in thesecond," cautioned Joe Plocek of McCarthy, Crisanti and MaffeiInc, who expects first quarter growth of about three pct. Reuter
LAWSON EXPECTS INTEREST RATE FALL SOON U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer NigelLawson said he expected British interest rates to fall soon inresponse to his fiscal 1987/88 budget, but he did not say byhow much.    "I would be very surprised if there is not a very earlyfurther fall in interest rates," Lawson said in a radiointerview.    Analysts said they foresaw U.K. Base rates falling as earlyas today by as much as one full percentage point after Lawson'sannouncement yesterday that the public sector borrowingrequirement in fiscal 1987/88 and 1988/89 was to fall to 1.0pct of GDP, or some four billion stg.    British banks' base lending rates fell a half percentagepoint on March 9 to the current 10.5 pct. REUTER
THAI BANKS WEIGH NEW INTEREST RATE CUT Officials of five Thai commercial banksare expected to meet tomorrow to seek agreement on cuttinginterest rates, banking sources said.    They said they expect Thai banks to opt for a cut to spurdomestic loan demand to help reduce persistent high liquidityon the money market.    Many bankers have been urging an average half percentagepoint cut in deposit rates and a one point cut in lendingrates, they said.    Six major Thai major banks reduced minimum loan andoverdraft rates by 0.50 to 0.75 percentage point on February 16but the move has not substantially increased loan demand, thesources said.    Excess liquidity has been hitting bank profits since earlylast year despite five interest rate cuts in 1986. The currentgross 7.25 pct interest rate for one-year fixed bank depositand the 11.5 pct minimum loan rate are the lowest in a decade.    Bankers said the Thai banking system is saddled with about40 to 50 billion baht of surplus funds which have createdproblems for many banks in managing their money effectively.    Profits of many Thai banks fell sharply last year partlybecause of a mismatch of loan demand and bank deposit growth.The Bank of Thailand estimated overall lending by the Thaibanking system grew 3.8 pct in 1986 against a 12 pct expansionin bank deposits.    Reports of a possible new round of interest rate cuts havefurther buoyed the Thai stock market this week.    The Securities Exchange of Thailand (SET) Index on Mondayrecorded its biggest daily advance in recent years, shooting up4.57 points to a new seven-year high of 223.02.    Brokers and market analysts said Thai stocks will registermore gains as long as liquidity remains in the money market.    Thai and foreign bankers said the liquidity problem willgrow if the Bank of Thailand does not extend permission forlocal banks to hold foreign exchange positions up to 40 pct ofbank capital.    If the regulation is not extended beyond its April 3 expirydate, many commercial banks will have to reduce foreignexchange holdings to a maximum 20 pct.    Bankers said such that could add another five billion bahtof surplus funds to the local money market. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it had invitedan early round of bill offers from the discount houses afterforecasting a shortage in the system of around 1.1 billion stg.    Money market dealers speculated that the central bank couldbe taking the opportunity to signal a reduction in U.K. Baselending rates by cutting the rates at which it intervenes inthe discount market.    Most operators are expecting a base rate cut today,possibly of one point, following yesterday's budget in whichthe U.K. Public sector borrowing target for 1987/88 was slashedby three billion stg.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturingin official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drainsome 1.11 billion stg while a rise in note circulation andbankers' balances below target will take out around 120 mln stgand 20 mln stg respectively.    Partly offsetting these outflows, exchequer transactionswill add some 140 mln stg to the system today. REUTER
BANK OF ENGLAND SIGNALS HALF POINT CUT IN SHORT TERM RATES - Turner and Newall Plc said it planned toraise a net 71.7 mln stg with a one-for-six rights issue of36.15 mln shares.    The shares would be offered at 205p, compared with Turner'sprice which fell to 227p from last night's close at 241p.    The group said the funds would be used to cut borrowings,which had risen to 234 mln stg at end-February, largely as aresult of the takeover of <AE Plc>.    The company also reported pretax profits rising to 44.7 mlnstg from 39.6 mln previously.    It noted that the purchase of AE involved the payment ofsome 125 mln stg cash as well as taking on AE's own borrowingsof some 85 mln stg. The net debt/equity ratio at the year endhad risen to 59 pct from 23 pct the year before, it added. Therights issue would cut borrowings and also allow furtherdevelopment through investment and acquisition.    But it said that the purchase of AE -- which was won aftera long and acrimonious battle last year -- greatly strengthenedthe group's position in the automotive components andengineering materials sectors.    In the 15 months to end-1986 AE produced pretax profits of27.4 mln stg compared with 25.6 mln in the 12 monthspreviously.   As the offer for AE was not declared unconditional untilDecember 5, it made a negligible contribution to Turner's 1986results.    Turner said the prospects were good and it looked forwardto taking advantage of the opportunities available.   1986 operating profits were higher in all areas apart fromZimbabwe mines, which were hit by the strength of the localcurrency against the dollar. REUTER
BANK OF ENGLAND SAID IT INVITED BORROWINGS AT 10 PCT LAT <Airod Sdn Bhd> said it won acontract from the U.S. Air Force to repair and service landinggear and airframe parts of General Dynamics Corp <GD.N> F-16and McDonnell Douglas Corp <MD.N> F-4 jet fighters.    The one-year contract, worth 1.3 mln ringgit, was signedrecently and work is expected to begin soon, an Airod spokesmantold Reuters.    Airod is a joint venture between Lockheed Corp <LK.N> unit<Lockheed Aircraft Service International> and <AerospaceIndustries Malaysia>    Airod, which was set up in 1985, has a paid-up capital of5.6 mln ringgit, the spokesman said.    He said that under the contract, jet parts from U.S. AirForce bases in the Philippines, Japan and South Korea would besent to Airod for servicing and repair. If the Air Force wassatisfied with its performance, the contract could be extended,he said. Airod now services some Royal Malaysian Air Force andIndonesian Air Force aircraft, he said.    Aerospace Industries is equally owned by the Malaysiangovernment, Malaysian Airline System <MAIM.SI> and <UnitedMotor Works Bhd>. REUTER
BANK OF ENGLAND INVITES BORROWING AT 10 PCT The Bank of England said it had invitedthose discount houses wishing to use borrowing facilities to doso at 1430 GMT today at a rate of 10 pct for 14 days.    This compares with the Bank's present band one dealing rateof 10-3/8 pct.    The Bank of England's announcement was quickly followed byBarclays Bank and National Westminster Bank which announced ahalf-point cut in their base rates to 10 pct from 10-1/2 pct.    Dealers said the lowering in base rates had been widelyexpected following yesterday's U.K. Budget in which Chancellorof the Exchequer Nigel Lawson announced a three billion stg cutin the Government's public sector borrowing target for 1987/88to four billion stg.    Many in the market had expected a full one point cut inbase rates today but some were not surprised by theauthorities' caution, dealers added. REUTER
LAWSON SAYS HE FAVOURS GRADUAL APPROACH TO CUTS IN U.K. INTERE The Bank of England said it revised upits estimate of the deficit in the system today to 1.3 billionstg from 1.1 billion.    The Bank has not provided any assistance to the market sofar today but earlier invited the discount houses to use theirborrowing facilities at 1430 GMT today and set the terms at 10pct for 14 days. REUTER
LAWSON HAPPY WITH STERLING, BACKS LATEST RATE CUT Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawsonsaid he was content with the current level of sterling andwelcomed today's announcement of a further half point cut inBritish bank base lending rates to 10 pct.    However, he said he wanted to see a gradual approach todeclines in domestic U.K. Interest rates, although optimism infinancial markets might push for big moves quickly.    He told a briefing of economic journalists that "I don'tthink we should rush anything." Lawson stressed the themes of"gradualism and steadiness" as economic policy.    Lawson acknowledged that today's fall in interest rateswere in response to his budget for fiscal 1987/88, unveiledyesterday to Parliament and which set a lower target for thekey Public Sector Borrowing Requirement (PSBR) of 1.0 pct ofGDP.    Lawson said the two recent cuts in base rates, both madethis month in the form of half percentage point declines, were"perfectly consistent" with monetary conditions now in Britain.    He supported that by saying the narrow M0 money supplyaggregate was "safely inside" its flucuation band of two to sixpct set for both 1986/87 and 1987/88. In his budget, Lawson setno explicit target range for the broader sterling M3.    Turning to the question of Britain eventually joining theexchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS),Lawson repeated that "it is most unlikely we will enter beforethe next election."    He said Britain was keeping the subject of full EMSmembership under constant review. But he would not indicatewhat the chief considerations for this were for the government.    Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher late last year said adecision on whether or not to join depended on the strength ofthe U.K. Economy. But she later said such a move depended onother EMS countries scrapping residual capital controls.    Although Lawson denounced what he said was "the current waveof election fever" in Britain, he added:  "It is more likely thatthere will be an election this year" than not.    He said he supported an early election only because itwould clear the air. "Ideally, we (the government) should have afull term," but events could force a premature poll, Lawsonsaid.    The government, which has been in power since 1979, mustcall an election by June 1988. Speculation is rising for eithera June or an early autumn election, political sources said.    The decision to cut basic tax by only two pence in 1987/88"was the right balance, economically and politically," he said.    Lawson's decision to restrict the fall in the standard rateof tax to two-pence surprised many analysts, who had predictedthat with Treasurys coffers full of tax revenue would haveallowed the government to reach its goal of 25 pct in one move.    But it was being praised today by political analysts as ashrewd move which, while advancing towards that aim, could notbe seized upon by opposition parties as overtly trying to bribethe electorate.    Lawson told journalists he had been surprised by how muchthe PSBR had undershot his original assumption of 7.1 billionstg for 1986/87 -- by some three billion stg.    Returning to changing levels of interest rates, Lawsonstressed that "they are not an objective (for the government) -they are an instrument of policy." Consequently the Treasury hadno precise target for domestic borrowing levels, he said.    But "there may be interest rate consequences" from changes inthe level of government borrowing, he added.    Lawson said he did not think that the U.K.'s relativelyhigh level of real interest rates had hurt investment inBritain.    He said conditions created by London's role as a leadingfinancial centre had caused sterling interest rates to behigher in real terms than in other countries.    Three factors had caused the higher level in relativeinterest rates in Britain, Lawson said.    First, control of credit in Britain rested on interestrates alone, due to the freedom of its financial markets.    He said the second reason was political uncertainty causedby proposed spending plans of the opposition Labour Party.     Thirdly, he said "we do not have as long a track record oflow inflation" as did the U.S., Japan and West Germany.    Lawson foresaw London becoming the world's pre-eminentfinancial centre, because it was more international incharacter and more favourably placed in time zones than NewYork or Tokyo. REUTER
BUNDESBANK SEEN STEERING STEADY MONETARY COURSE The Bundesbank is likely to steer asteady monetary course over the next few weeks and a change incredit policies is not expected at tomorrow's regular centralbank council meeting, bank economists and dealers said.    "There is no need for action," Hermann Remsperger, chiefeconomist of Berliner Handels- and Frankfurter Bank (BHF) said.    Others noted that exchange rates are stable after lastmonth's Group of Six agreement in Paris and central bank moneystock growth is still well above the three to six pct targetzone, so a change in credit policies could be ruled out.    One money market dealer said comments by BundesbankPresident Karl Otto Poehl at a private seminar in Duesseldorftwo weeks ago hinting at another interest rate cut onlyindicated the Bundesbank might act if conditions changed.    Bank economists said U.S. Pressure on West Germany tofurther ease credit policies had receded since the Paris pact.    But such demands could re-emerge if West Germany failed tostimulate its economy enough to affect the massive U.S. Tradedeficit.    Remsperger said continued strong money supply growth alsoprecluded a further cut in official interest rates.    Central bank money stock was growing at an annualized 7.5pct in February, unchanged from the 7.5 pct in January.    Economists said some of the 18 members of the central bankcouncil were worried about the continued overshoot in the moneysupply target and were bound to resist any moves to cut rates.But Poehl played down the risk of inflation.    Economists said the fact that money stock growth remainedstable last month was a success. Some said it was likely toreturn to within the target range later this year.    "The special factors which boosted money supply growth lastyear are disappearing," one economist said.    He said some 75 pct of the money supply increase in 1986was caused by a sharp rise in the inflow of foreign funds.    This trend had been reversed recently and with domesticcredit demand likely to remain at steady levels, money stockgrowth was expected to narrow in the medium-term.    These developments were increasing the Bundesbank's scopefor a rate cut in the medium-term, economists said.    Money market dealers said period rates remained littlechanged, indicating no change in credit policy was expected.    Call money rates declined to 3.75/80 pct from 3.90/95yesterday, with the market well stocked with liquidity.    Dealers said call money was soft because tax payments onbehalf of customers had been less than expected so far. Butrates were likely to tighten again as soon as the full effectof this month's major tax payment period is felt. Payments forthe federal railways bond are also likely to burden the market.    The Bundesbank did not inject liquidity via a securitiesrepurchase agreement this week, but countered a tightening inrates on Monday by injecting funds through government-ownedbanks.    Dealers said recent securities repurchase pacts had shownthe Bundesbank clearly wanted call money rates stable at 3.80.    One dealer said, "If the central bank wanted lower interestrates, it would first of all drive call money rates down."    Banks remained relatively well stocked with minimum reserveassets. They held 52.9 billion marks in minimum reserves onMonday, averaging 53.7 billion marks over the first 16 days ofMarch. A requirement of around 51 billion is expected. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 15 MLN STG AFTERNOON HELP The Bank of England said it had providedthe money market with a further 15 mln stg assistance. Thisbrings the Bank's total help so far today to 344 mln stg andcompares with the estimated shortage of around 1.3 billion stg.    The central bank purchased bank bills outright, at thelower dealing rates established this morning, comprising onemln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct and 14 mln stg in band two at9-13/16 pct. REUTER
WEST GERMAN BANKS SLOWLY CUTTING KEY SAVINGS RATES West German commercial banks arecautiously cutting key savings and lending rates, bankingsources said. The cuts follow nearly two months after theBundesbank reduced leading interest rates, far longer than theusual interim period.    A Deutsche Bank AG <DBKG.F> spokesman said it is cuttingleading savings rate for private customers on a regional basisby 0.5 percentage points to two pct. Dresdner Bank AG <DRSD.F>and Commerzbank AG <CBKG.F> have initiated similar moves. Bankfuer Gemeinwirtschaft AG <BKFG.F> cut rates 0.5 pct generally.    The delay was partly due to commercial banks' desire togauge customer reaction to a similar move by regional savingsbanks.    A fall in customer savings because of lower rates couldreduce cheap refinancing available to banks, forcing them todraw down relatively expensive funds from other sources, oneeconomist at the German Banking Association said.    But the volume of savings funds may not be substantiallyundercut by lower savings rates because many customers areparking funds in savings accounts in the hope they can reinvestthem at higher yields in the future, he said.    He said this may conflict with Bundesbank aims to move morefunds from relatively short-term deposits to longer-datedsecurities to reduce strong growth in its central bank moneysupply aggregate.    The aggregate showed annualized growth of a provisional 7.5pct in February against the fourth quarter of last year,unchanged from January. The growth rate was outside theexpanded target range of three to six pct.    Few banks have so far reduced lending rates to privatecustomers, though lending rates for corporate customers arebeginning to decline. REUTER
U.K. BASE RATES WILL FALL AGAIN SOON, SAY ANALYSTS Today's modest half-point cut in U.K.Bank base lending rates to 10 pct signals the Bank of England'sdetermination to maintain a cautious monetary stance, butfinancial markets appear set to force its hand, analysts said.    They said a further half-point cut in base rates to 9-1/2pct was bound to occur within the next week and rates may sheda further half point soon if markets remain buoyant.    Earlier, markets were bracing for a one-point cut in ratesafter yesterday's budget set a sharp three billion stgreduction in 1987 government borrowing targets to four billionstg.    Sterling money market rates moved lower again, with the keythree-month interbank rate down to 9-5/8 1/2 pct at the startof business from 9-11/16 9/16 yesterday, and sterling ralliedto four-year highs against the dollar in very active trading.    Government bond prices also surged on the budget, withgains in excess of one point pushing yields on long-term paperbelow nine pct for the first time in nearly a year.    But today's smaller than expected rate cut appeared to haveplacated markets for now, analysts said. Money market ratesrecovered up to 1/4 point from earlier lows while both sterlingand gilts came off highs as trading ground to a near halt.    Analysts said the slowdown was likely to be temporary, andthe reappraisal of sterling assets by international investorswas set to resume as early as tomorrow, leading to higher giltprices, exchange rate advances and lower money market rates.    "Today's cut was slightly disappointing," said Bill Martin,chief U.K. Economist at stockbrokers Phillips and Drew. "TheBank of England is taking a very cautious line ... To temperthe markets' first rush of blood to the head after the budget."    Analysts said the bank's move today to lend two-week cashto U.K. Discount houses at a lower 10 pct suggested it hoped tomaintain the new rates for about that period of time.    The analysts agreed success would depend largely on howsterling performs in the near term.    Sharp rises in the pound's value could be checked initiallythrough Bank of England intervention but eventually the gainswould force the bank to cut interest rates rates again.    "The market seems to have accepted the modest cut for thetime being," said Midland Bank treasury economist DavidSimmonds. "But I am sceptical that the bank will be able to holdup rates for long."    Simmonds said he saw sterling rising another two U.S. Centsthis week from around 1.60 dlrs, forcing a rate cut by Friday.    Robin Marshall, chief economist at Chase ManhattanSecurities, said "There is another half point to come in thenear term, this week or next week at the latest...We see awhole point off base rates in the next two or three weeks."    Analysts stressed that apart from prestige, Britain hadvery little to gain from a sharp rise in sterling's exchangerate.    Martin, of Phillips and Drew, said the dampening effect ofa sterling rise on consumer price inflation would notmaterialise for at least nine months while its hampering impacton manufactured exports would show almost immediately.    Analysts said the budget, featuring income tax cuts as wellas cautious plans for public finances, had improved the chancesof re-election for the Conservative government and probablyadvanced the election date. One must be held before June, 1988.Combined with overall good prospects for the U.K. Economy, thiswas likely to fuel a foreign rush on sterling-denominatedassets, pushing the pound's value well above unofficialtargets.    With mark-denominated investments largely out of favourbecause of low yields and a dull economic outlook, Chase'sMarshall said "Sterling is simply the best game in town,especially after the budget, and demand will remain strong." REUTER
HOUSE SUBCOMMITTEE VOTES CREDIT CARD RATE CAP A House Banking subcommittee hasapproved legislation to limit the interest rates charged bybanks and other credit card issuers.    The Consumer Affairs and Coinage subcommittee bill wouldlimit credit card interest rates at eight percentage pointsabove the yield on one-year Treasury securities.    If in effect now, the bill would limit credit card rates to13.8 pct compared to a nation-wide average of 18 pct, thesubcommittee said.    The bill now goes to the full House Banking committee forfurther action. Reuter
VOLATILITY LIKELY TO REMAIN LOW IN DEBT FUTURES Financial analysts see little chancethat U.S. interest rate futures will break out of their narrowranges and low volatility during the remainder of the week.    "We got a little volatility Wednesday," said StaleyCommodities International analyst Jerome Lacey. "But for themoment we're still in a trading range."    Even unexpected developments concerning the growth of theU.S. economy may not be enough to spur the market out of itssluggish state, the analysts said.    "It (the bond market) has not yet demonstrated that it canbreak out of its very low volatility," said Carroll McEntee andMcGinley analyst Denis Karnosky. "It needs something, but it'snot going to be news about the economy," he said.    Karnosky said that the bond market will possibly break outof the doldrums if participants perceive that the dollar hasstabilized and the Federal Reserve has more room to conductmonetary policy.    But even Wednesday, when fed funds were below six pct, thedollar strong and oil on the soft side, bond futures attractedeager sellers when contracts approached recent highs, he said.    In addition to a changing perception about the dollar andmonetary policy, Golden Gate Futures president Norman Quinnsaid the beginning of April could bring foreign investors backinto the marketplace.    "The market is beginning to feel there may be demand at thebeginning of the fiscal year in Japan on April 1," Quinn said.    Quinn echoed the sentiment of many analysts that there arelarge amounts of cash waiting to be invested. If Japaneseinvestment in U.S. securities does materialize at the start ofJapan's fiscal year, domestic funds may also flow into the bondmarket, he said.    "We could get a stiff rally, possibly enough to bringyields on long bonds down to seven to 7-1/8 pct," compared tothe current yield of about 7.5 pct, Quinn said.    In the meantime, even the prospect of new supply is notlikely to move futures.    The Treasury's announcement of a 15 billion dlr refundingoperation did little to move cash government securities priceslate Wednesday after the close of futures.    "I'd be surprised if supply pushed us out of it (thetrading range)," Lacey said. Reuter
BUNDESBANK LEAVES CREDIT POLICIES UNCHANGED The Bundesbank left credit policiesunchanged after today's regular meeting of its council, aspokesman said in answer to enquiries.    The West German discount rate remains at 3.0 pct, and theLombard emergency financing rate at 5.0 pct. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO TAKE NO MONEY MARKET ACTION The Federal Reserve is expected torefrain from reserve-management intervention in the U.S.Government securities market, economists said.    If the Fed does act, however, they said it would be likelyto add temporary reserves indirectly by arranging around 1.5billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements.    Federal funds, which averaged 5.97 pct yesterday, opened atsix pct and remained there in early trading. Reuter
GERMAN BANKS SEE LOW INTEREST RATES CONTINUING The Association of German CooperativeBanks said in a financial survey that domestic interest rateswould continue to remain low for the time being.    It said the Bundesbank could hold them down despite strongforeign influence and it saw no interest-straining factors inthe economy that could affect the long-term capital market.    The inflation rate of one pct also gave no occasion forhigher nominal interest rates. But a probable rise in inflationlate this year could give very slight grounds for a rise innominal rates at year's end and next year, it said.    The association said generally low interest rates,prospects of lower taxes, a stable dollar rate and expectedstrong domestic demand led it to believe that the investmentclimate would remain friendly and the economy would continueits slow but very sure growth.    The Bundesbank had managed successfully to keep interestrates down on the short-term money market although its policieshad exerted little effect on the long-term capital market,which was so important for investment financing and thus forthe course of the economy, it said.    In view of the limits to the possibilities monetary policyhad in influencing the longer-term capital market, theassociation saw little sense in wanting to boost the economythrough a short-term and expansionist monetary policy.    On the other hand it also saw no reason for stickingdogmatically to the money supply target for the whole of 1987.    The association said time would show to what extentspeculative foreign money and short-term invested domesticmoney would distort money supply developments. The Bundesbankcould hold down money market rates with the highly effectiveinstrument of sale and repurchase transactions, it said. Reuter
U.K. MONEY DATA MAY EASE RATE CUT, ANALYSTS SAY Slower than expected growth in Britain'snarrow M0 money supply measure in February will help spur afurther cut in U.K. Interest rates if a surge in sterling'svalue requires such a move, economic analysts said.    M0, the only targeted money supply measure left afterChancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson scrapped the officialtarget for the broad sterling M3 measure in his 1987 budgetspeech on Tuesday, fell an adjusted 3/4 to one pct in February.    On an annual basis, this put M0 growth at four to 4-1/2pct, in the middle of the 1987 target of two to six pct.    "The M0 data are much better than we expected," said RobertThomas, economist at Greenwell Montagu Securities.    He and other analysts said while the better than expectedM0 figures alone would not be sufficient to trigger a newinterest rate cut, they removed an obstacle to such a move.    Thomas noted the rise in M0 had been kept in check despitebuoyant retail sales in February, advancing an adjusted 2.2 pctafter a fall of the same size in January.    Analysts said the M0 measure, reflecting variations inconsumer demand rather than real inflation prospects, was notan adequate indicator to determine interest rates.    "The authorities still seem to want to pretend that M0 isimportant ... In practice, it is likely to be the exchange rateand the election which call the tune," Lloyds Merchant bankchief economist Roger Bootle wrote in a budget comment.    Richard Jeffrey, economist at stockbrokers Hoare Govett,said in a comment: "It is unlikely that (Lawson) will respond tosignals from M0 alone ... Reinforcement from exchange ratetrends is necessary before action is taken."    "With the Chancellor making clear that policy manoeuvres aremade in response to signals from this narrow money variable,the City has been forced to take it seriously," he added.    Noting this point, Thomas said market fears at the end oflast year of an M0 overshoot had now disappeared.    This removed a potential obstacle to a further cut in U.K.Base lending rates if foreign demand for sterling pushed up thepound above unofficial targets, analysts said.    Such targets are believed to have been secretly agreedbetween finance ministers of the Group of Five and Canada attheir Paris meeting last month, they added.  U.K. Base rates have been cut twice by half a point since theParis agreement, once on March 11, and again yesterday whenforeign demand for sterling surged in reaction to a sharp cutin 1987 government borrowing targets contained in the budget.    They stand at 10 pct now, and foreign exchange dealers andanalysts expect them to shed another half-point in the comingweek.    Analysts shrugged off as largely irrelevant a higher thanexpected increase in February sterling M3, which pushed theannual growth rate to almost 19 pct, well above the previoustarget of 11 to 15 pct.    Thomas said the February figures seemed to indicate theimprovement in sterling M3 growth witnessed over the past fewmonths had been reversed, but firm conclusions could only bedrawn after revised data are released on March 31.    Some analysts said foreign investors had long ceased towatch the sterling M3 target, and Lawson's move to scrap italtogether earlier this week removed whatever was left of itscredibility as a key factor in monetary policy. REUTER
CANADA 91-DAY T-BILLS AVERAGE 6.89 PCT, MAKING BANK RATE 7.14 PCT        Dresser Industries Inc said it expectsthe joint ventures it has entered into and a gradualimprovement in the energy market to allow it to regainprofitability before the end of the current year.    Dresser earned 9,600,000 dlrs for the year ended October 31-- after a 95.0 mln dlr gain from a change in accounting andpension plan curtailment and a 25.3 mln dlr writedown ofoilfield assets. Reuter
SINGAPORE EXCHANGE PLANS OPTIONS CONTRACTS The Singapore InternationalMonetary Exchange Ltd, SIMEX, said it would launch at least twooptions on futures contracts this year.    SIMEX said in a press release that the options contractswould be based on the currency and interest rate futurescurrently traded on the exchange and be started "toward thethird quarter."    SIMEX, which is linked to the Chicago Mercantile Exchange,currently trades three currency futures -- on Deutsche marks,Japanese yen and British pounds -- and two interest ratefutures -- on U.S. Treasury-bonds and three-month Eurodollars. Reuter
FED DATA SUGGEST U.S. CREDIT POLICY IS ON HOLD Latest Federal Reserve data suggestthat the U.S. banking system is flush with reserves going intoa period of traditional tightness and that overall monetarypolicy is on hold, economists said.    "There is ample liquidity.... The Fed is not going to shiftgears at the present time or for at least another month," saidMaria Ramirez of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.    "Technical and seasonal considerations aside, there isnothing for the (credit) market to get excited about," addedRobert di Clemente of Salomon Brothers Inc.    Adjusted bank borrowings from the Fed's discount windowaveraged only 228 mln dlrs a day in the first week of the bankstatement period ending next Wednesday, compared with 233 mlnand 451 mln in the first weeks of the previous two periods.    Another sign of abundant liquidity was the upward revisionin banks' net free reserves in the two-week period to March 11to a daily average of 759 mln dlrs from an estimated 660 mln.    Finally, a Fed spokesman told a press briefing that the 14money center banks were absent from the Fed's discount windowfor the third week running, with the latest week's borrowingsplit between the large regional and the smaller banks.    While modest open market intervention was apparently enoughto defuse any funding pressures in the first week of the lateststatement period, economists predicted that the Fed would haveto be more aggressive in coming weeks.    The Fed injected temporary reserves directly and indirectlyon four of the five trading days via system and customerrepurchase agreements.    "Fed funds will be coming under relatively intensepressure," said Salomon's di Clemente, noting the approachingmonth- and quarter-end and the round of holidays and tax datesin April.    "The Fed is faced with a large seasonal addingrequirement," said Ward McCarthy of Merrill Lynch and Co Inc,who expects a permanent bill purchase next week and a couponpurchase in early April.    Economists were also heartened by further signs of adeceleration in money supply growth, not only in the largelydiscredited M-1 gauge but also in the more closely watched M-2and M-3 aggregates.    M-1 grew a mere 500 mln dlrs in the week to March nine,compared with private forecasts of a 2.3 mln dlr rise. WeeklyM-2 and M-3 components also hinted at slower overall growth.    "The M-1 increase was surprisingly modest and I suspect weare on our way to another moderate set of M-2 and M-3 figuresfor March," said Salomon's di Clemente. Merrill's McCarthy saidthey could even come in below the bottom of their respectivetarget ranges.    In February, M-2 was 18.2 billion dlrs below its upperlimit and M-3 was 20.8 billion beneath.    Noting Fed Vice Chairman Johnson's encouraging remarks oninflation today and recent interest rate cuts overseas, someeconomists suggested this slowing in monetary growth could lendsupport to calls for further accommodation here.    "Our belief is that we could still get a move downwards inrates before anything else," said Salomon's di Clemente, addingthat the key swing factor will continue to be the strength ofthe U.S. economy.    Jeffrey Leeds of Chemical Bank agreed that the economy'shealth would remain the main influence on policy but, contraryto di Clemente, he said that recent signs of faster growth andinflation could lead to higher rates first.    Drexel's Ramirez did not commit herself either way, addingthat the next major move may have to wait until April 14 whenFebruary's U.S. trade data are due for release. Reuter
SHORT-TERM YEN INTEREST RATES SEEN FALLING SOON Japanese short-term interest rates,buoyed recently by seasonal factors, are likely to fall fromthe beginning of April when the new financial year begins,money traders said.    The Bank of Japan is expected to encourage the trendfollowing its attempts to pressure rates to enhance itsdiscount rate cut on February 23, they said.    The Bank cut the rate to 2.5 pct from three, and beganactively injecting funds into the money market to offset raterises resulting from the end-of-fiscal-year surge in demand forfunds from financial institutions.    Despite its attempts to dampen rates with measures such asaggressive commercial bill purchases, the central bank hasfailed to remove all upward pressure, money traders said.    Attractive interest rates offered by domestic banks tocompete for time deposits of more than 600 mln yen hasunderpinned short-term rates, they said.    Interest rates on time deposits of more than 600 mln yenwere decontrolled by the Finance Ministry last September.    This resulted in such deposits with domestic banks risingto 17,830 billion yen by the end-December, a three-foldincrease on end-December 1985 levels, bankers said.    On March 31, the money market expects to see a 2,000billion yen surplus resulting from government payment of fiscalfunds, money traders said.    From April 1, they predict the unconditional call rate willfall to 3.5000 pct from 3.7500 pct today and the one-monthcommercial bill discount rate to drop to 3.7500 pct from 4.0635pct.    They predict the three-month bill discount rate to slip to3.875 pct from 4.0000 today and the three-month certificate ofdeposit rate to slide to 4.10/4.15 from 4.35/25. REUTER
NEW DUTCH ADVANCES TOTAL FOUR BILLION GUILDERS The Dutch Central Bank said it hasaccepted bids totalling 4.00 billion guilders at tender thismorning for new five-day special advances at 5.3 pct for theperiod March 20 to 25.    Subscriptions to 250 mln guilders were fully met, amountsabove 250 mln at 30 pct.    The new facility replaces old 11-day advances totalling 6.5billion guilders at the same rate. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it had invitedan early round of bill offers from the discount houses afterforecasting a shortage of around 950 mln stg in the moneymarket today.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturingin official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drainaround 572 mln stg while a rise in note circulation wil takeout some 280 mlns stg.    In addition, exchequer transactions and bankers' balancesbelow target will remove some 85 mln stg and 15 mln stg for thesystem respectively. REUTER
Abbey National said it cutting U.K. Mortgage rate by 1.125 pct to 1 Rain and floods in India last yeardamaged about 69,000 tonnes of grain intended for humanconsumption during storage and transportation, food and civilsupplies minister H. K. L. Bhagat told Parliament.    He did not give comparative figures and said thegovernment-owned Food Corporation of India (FCI) had not yetdecided whether these grains could be used as cattle feed.    Bhagat said the FCI had a total of 16.43 mln tonnes of foodgrains in its warehouses at the end of 1986. It had asked stategovernments to build more warehouses to avoid damage to grains. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 728 MLN STG EARLY HELP The Bank of England said it had providedthe money market with 728 mln stg assistance in response to anearly round of bill offers from the discount houses.    Earlier, the Bank had estimated the shortage in the systemtoday at 950 mln stg.    The central bank purchased 625 mln stg of bills for resaleto the market on April 7 at rates of interest between 9-15/16pct and 10 pct.    It also bought 103 mln stg bank bills outright comprising65 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct and 38 mln stg in band twoat 9-13/16 pct. REUTER
BANK OF SPAIN SUSPENDS ASSISTANCE, DRAINS FUNDS The Bank of Spain suspended its dailymoney market assistance and offered to drain funds with three-and seven-day repurchase agreements at 12-1/2 pct, money marketsources said.    The sources said the measures were a further attempt torein in money supply and were likely to force some institutionsto scramble for funds before the 10-day accounting period forreserve requirements closes on Monday.    The bank, which raised its rate for ordinary overnightassistance to 13-3/4 from 13-1/2 pct on Wednesday, opened itsspecial borrowing facility for overnight funds at 14-1/2 pct.    Money market sources said institutions in need of fundswere likely to have to return to the bank tomorrow for furtherassistance.    The bank rarely invites applications for ordinaryassistance on a Saturday and the sources said it was morelikely to open its special borrowing facility again. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 31 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it gave themoney market another 31 mln stg in assistance in the morningsession.    This brings the Bank's total help today to 759 mln stg andcompares with its estimate of a 1.05 billion stg money marketshortage which it earlier revised up from 950 mln stg.    The central bank bought 31 mln stg of bank bills outrightin band two at 9-13/16 pct. REUTER
BANK OF SPAIN SUSPENDS ASSISTANCE, DRAINS FUNDS The Bank of Spain suspended its dailymoney market assistance and offered to drain funds with three-and seven-day repurchase agreements at 12-1/2 pct, money marketsources said.    The sources said the measures were a further attempt torein in money supply and were likely to force some institutionsto scramble for funds before the 10-day accounting period forreserve requirements closes on Monday.    The bank, which raised its rate for ordinary overnightassistance to 13-3/4 from 13-1/2 pct on Wednesday, opened itsspecial borrowing facility for overnight funds at 14-1/2 pct.    Money market sources said institutions in need of fundswere likely to have to return to the bank tomorrow for furtherassistance.    The bank rarely invites applications for ordinaryassistance on a Saturday and the sources said it was morelikely to open its special borrowing facility again. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GETS 186 MLN STG AFTERNOON HELP The Bank of England said it had giventhe money market a further 186 mln stg assistance in theafternoon session. This brings the Bank's total help so fartoday to 945 mln stg and compares with its revised forecast ofa one billion stg deficit.    The central bank bought bank bills outright comprising 51mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct and 135 mln stg in band two at9-13/16 pct. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve is expected tointervene in the government securities market to add temporaryreserves indirectly via 1.5-2.0 billion dlrs of customerrepurchase agreements, economists said.    Federal funds, which averaged 6.06 pct yesterday, opened at6-1/16 pct and remained there in early trading. Reuter
FED SAYS IT SETS 1.5 BILLION DLRS OF CUSTOMER REPURCHASE AG Cable and Wireless Plc <CAWL.L> isresisting attempts to merge two Japan-based telecommunicationsfirms in the hope that overseas political pressure will force achange in those plans, a company executive said.    Cable and Wireless, which holds a 20 pct stake in one ofthe two Japanese firms, is opposed to plans to reduce its shareto three pct in the merged firm, director of corporate strategyJonathan Solomon told reporters.    That plan, put forward by a senior member of the powerfulbusiness organization Keidanren with the tacit backing of thePost and Telecommunications Ministry, has caused a storm ofprotest from abroad that Japan is seeking to exclude foreignfirms from a meaningful position in the market.    Pacific Telesis Group <PAC.N> of the United States alsoholds a 20 pct stake in one of the newly formed consortia,<International Digital Communications Inc> (IDC).    Solomon said that both British Prime Minister MargaretThatcher and U.S. Secretary of State George Schultz havewritten to the Japanese government about the planned merger.    A key U.S. Senate committee, Commerce Secretary MalcolmBaldrige and Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter have alsoexpressed opposition to the merger, he said.    The Post and Telecomunications Ministry reiterated againthat it sees no need for two competitors to <Kokusai DenshinDenwa Co Ltd>, which holds a monopoly on international callsfrom Japan. The ministry has also suggested that foreignshareholders not hold managerial positions in the new firm.    In an attempt to hammer out an agreement, Solomon today metFumio Watanabe, the senior Keidanren officer trying to arrangethe merger. But the two sides remained deadlocked.    At stake is C and W's 400 mln dlr project to lay fibreoptic cables between Japan and Alaska, to form part of itsglobal network.    "C and W wants to start right away on the project, such asapplication and other procedures," said Watanabe, who is alsochairman of <Tokio Marine and Fire Insurance Inc>. The Japaneseside is saying that the decision on such a plan should be leftwith the new firm, after the merger.    "These decisions (on the merger) were made in considerationof Japan's economic conditions and legal systems. I told him weare not a colony or something," said Watanabe. Reuter
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange 1.5 billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.    Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-1/16 pct whenthe Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves tothe banking system. Reuter
JAPAN LONG-TERM PRIME SEEN CUT TO RECORD LOW SOON Japan's long-term banks will soon cuttheir prime rate, now at a record low 5.5 pct, by 0.2 or 0.3percentage point in response to falling secondary market yieldson their five-year debentures, long-term bankers said.    The long-term prime rate is customarily set 0.9 percentagepoint above the coupon on five-year bank debentures issued bythe long-term banks every month.    The latest bank debentures, at 4.6 pct, have met strongend-investor demand on the prospect of further declines in yeninterest rates, dealers said. The current 5.5 pct prime ratehas been in effect since February 28. REUTER
GATT MEETING HEARS PLEA FOR AFRICAN DEBT RELIEF Debt among African countrieswill continue to grow and their economies remain stifled unlessdeveloped countries lower their interest rates, Nigerian TradeMinister Samaila Mamman said.    He told an informal General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade(GATT) meeting the widening gap between developed anddeveloping countries and an inequitable international economicsystem were major impediments to growth in developingcountries.    Delegates from 23 countries are attending the GATT talks inthe New Zealand resort of Taupo.    "I wish to emphasise that the growth in the volume of theexternal indebtedness of African countries reflects the fulleffect of the deflationary monetary and trade policies of thedeveloped market economy countries," Mamman said.    "The developed market economy countries have slowed downoutput growth thereby drying up markets for the commodityexports of African countries."    Mamman said the World Bank estimated 35.3 billion dlrs ayear would be needed over the next five years for the Africancontinent to be able to achieve a gross domestic product growth(GDP) rate of three to four pct by 1990.    Yet at the same time Africa's debt service was estimated at24.5 billion dlrs a year between 1986 and 1990.    "With the best of intentions Africa cannot attain a three tofour pct GDP growth rate if the current high level of debtpersists," Mamman said. Developed countries must seekalternatives to policies that resulted in the transfer ofresources and more indebtedness, he said.    "The international community cannot fail to respondpositively to the collapse of the international market forcommodities ... And act quickly to stabilize demand and pricesof our commodity exports," he added. REUTER
GERMAN BOND YIELDS SEEN FALLING IN NEAR TERM  West German bond yields could declineover the next few months if recent efforts to stabilizeexchange rates, as seen in last month's Paris pact, extend tokeeping down European interest rates, banking economists said.    But in the longer term domestic yields could rise underagreements to stimulate West Germany's economy, they said.    The Paris agreement has so far successfully stabilizedcurrencies with the threat of central bank intervention,economists said.    Economists speculated that G-7 countries may try to bolsterthe pact by uncoupling U.S. and West German interest ratesfurther when they meet for the IMF Interim Committee in April."The recent round of monetary accommodation by the Bundesbankand the Bank of Japan and the firming of the Federal Funds rateare significant. They mark an uncoupling of movements in U.S.and foreign interest rates," Salomon Bros Inc said in a recentstudy.    It said narrowing of international interest rate spreadswas a major factor in the dollar's fall. These spreads willhave to be widened if the dollar is to be stabilized.    West German Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl encouragedthe U.S. not to cut interest rates in January when theBundesbank cut its own rates by half a point, to avoidweakening the dollar.    West German economists see room for further cuts in leadingWest German rates if the dollar resumes its decline.    "It's not a taboo," Peter Pietsch, spokesman for CommerzbankAG said.    But most economists see room for a cut in West German ratesonly in the first half of the year, as re-emerging inflationwill limit room for manoeuvre later in the year.    The Bundesbank's average yield of public paper is alreadynearing last year's low. Last week, yields fell to around 5.50pct, not far from the 1986 low of 5.35 pct posted in mid-April. Economists said the trend may cause domestic investors toshift some funds from short to longer-term paper. Such a movewould tend to flatten the yield curve between short andlong-term rates, which has become more pronounced since theBundesbank lowered its discount rate.    It might also facilitate a further cut in leading rates, asthe shift out of savings accounts into securities would slowgrowth of the Bundesbank's central bank money stock aggregate.    But conflicting with this trend are plans to increase WestGerman tax cuts, part of the Paris currency pact designed tomeet U.S. demands for faster West German growth. This move mayforce interest rates up by creating a revenue vacuum which mustbe filled by higher government borrowing.    This may not occur if private sector demand for creditremains weak, but demand could emerge if rates begin rising.    Economists said it appeared the government had alreadystepped up borrowing this year to accomodate revenue loss fromother sources, including tax losses resulting from weaker thanexpected economic growth, and higher than expected spending.    Josef Koerner, chief economist of the West GermanIfo-Institut, said in a newspaper interview he expected 1987tax revenue to be some 11 billion marks below estimates by theWest German government in November.    Any tax shortfall in itself is unlikely to push yields up.But coupled with other factors such as waning foreignspeculative buying of mark bonds on the dollar's decline, longterm yields may to have to rise, economists said.    Public authority borrowing in 1988 may also rise owing toincreases in the second phase of Bonn's tax reform package.    The West German government is raising its total tax cuts in1988 by 5.2 billion marks to 14.4 billion.    West German chancellor Helmut Kohl said last week increasedborrowing to finance the tax reform is acceptable.    Finance minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said last Thursday hewas looking for other ways to finance the reform, such asraising indirect taxes.    But few economists believe the government will be able togo through with its tax measures without increasing netborrowing.    The Bundesbank said in its February report that it waswrong to believe that the first stage of the tax reform in 1986could be managed without increasing deficits.    The Bundesbank said West German public authorities borroweda large 21.9 billion marks in credit markets in the 1986 finalquarter compared with 14.8 billion in fourth quarter 1985.    The federal government took up nearly 10 billion marks ofthe fourth quarter 1986 figures, and also drew on two billionmarks of Bundesbank advances at the end of the year, when ithad not required such a credit in the 1985 quarter. Reuter
 Bundesbank sets 28-day securities repurchase tender at fixed  The Bundesbank set a new tender for a28-day securities repurchase agreement, offering banksliquidity aid at a fixed rate of 3.80 pct, a central bankspokesman said.    Banks must make their bids by 1000 GMT tomorrow, and fundsallocated will be credited to accounts on Wednesday. Banks mustrepurchase securities pledged on April 22. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 800 MLN STG The Bank of England said it forecast ashortage of around 800 mln stg in the money market today.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturingin official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drainaround 1.18 billion stg while bankers balances below targetwill take out some 20 mln stg.    Partly offseting these outflows, a fall in note circulationand exchequer transactions will add some 355 and 55 mln stg tothe system respectively. REUTER
JAPAN ECONOMY SEEN GROWING 3.6 PCT IN 1987/88 Japan is expected to post a 3.6 pct risein real gross national product in 1987/88, higher than theofficial 3.5 pct target, a private economic institute said.    The Research Institute on National Economy said in a reportthe economy will start picking up in the April-June quarter,partly because of an improvement in earnings performance andcapital spending in manufacturing industries.    The institute assumed an average exchange rate in the yearstarting April 1 of 150 yen to the dollar. It predicted theBank of Japan will not change the official discount rate in theyear.    The institute forecast that Japan's exports will graduallyrise in the year in volume terms as the dollar's fall in thepast 18 months is likely to help prop up the U.S. Economy.    Japan's trade surplus is expected to narrow slightly to90.2 billion dlrs in 1987/88 ending March 31 from an estimated98 billion in the current fiscal year, it said. REUTER
BANK OF FRANCE SAYS NO MONEY MARKET TENDER TODAY The Bank of France will not hold a moneymarket intervention tender today, ruling out a further cut inits 7-3/4 pct intervention rate, central bank sources said.    At the tenders, depending on market conditions, the Bankinjects liquidity into the market by buying up first categorypaper. But market sources said that while the recent francperformance leaves room for a further quarter point cut in theintervention rate there was plenty of market liquidity.    The Bank cut its rate to 7-3/4 pct from eight pct on March9, the first change since January 2. Interest rates also fellthe same week in Britain, Belgium and Italy. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED DOWN The Bank of England said it revised downits forecast of the deficit in the money market today to 750mln stg from 800 mln. REUTER
JAPAN LONG-TERM PRIME SEEN CUT TO RECORD LOW SOON Japan's long-term banks will soon cuttheir prime rate, now at a record low 5.5 pct, by 0.2 or 0.3percentage point in response to falling secondary market yieldson their five-year debentures, long-term bankers said.    The long-term prime rate is customarily set 0.9 percentagepoint above the coupon on five-year bank debentures issued bythe long-term banks every month.    The latest bank debentures, at 4.6 pct, have met strongend-investor demand on the prospect of further declines in yeninterest rates, dealers said. The current 5.5 pct prime ratehas been in effect since February 28. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 97 MLN STG ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it provided themoney market with help of 97 mln stg in the morning session.    This compares with the Bank's revised estimate of a 750 mlnstg shortage in the system today.    The central bank bought bank bills outright comprising 12mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct and 85 mln stg in band two at9-13/16 pct. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 485 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it had giventhe money market a further 485 mln stg assistance in theafternoon session. This takes the Bank's total help so fartoday to 582 mln stg and compares with its forecast of a 750mln stg shortage in the system today.    The central bank bought bank bills outright comprising 345mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct and 75 mln stg in band two at9-3/16 pct. It also purchased 65 mln stg of treasury bills inband one at 9-7/8 pct. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve is expected tointervene in the government securities market to add temporaryreserves indirectly via 1.5 to 2.5 billion dlrs of customerrepurchase agreements, economists said.    They said that while the Fed has only a moderate add needover the next few days, it will probably intervene in anattempt to counteract an elevated federal funds rate.    Fed funds, which averaged 6.09 pct on Friday, opened at6-3/16 pct and remained at that level in early trading. Reuter
FED SAYS IT SETS 1.5 BILLION DLRS OF CUSTOMER REPURCHASE AG The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange 1.5 billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.    Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/16 pct whenthe Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves tothe banking system. Reuter
STANDARD FEDERAL <SFB> OFFERS ZERO-POINT LOAN Standard Federal Bank said itintroduced a zero-point fixed rate mortgage loan.    The loan program offers borrowers home mortgage financingwith no discount fees charged.    Standard said that fees charged will include an applicationfee, commitment fee and out-of-pocket expenses such as titlework, survey, recording fees and private mortgage insurance.     Reuter
 Bundesbank allocates 6.5 billion marks in 28-day repurchase pact at  Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa toldParliament's Lower House Finance Committee that the U.S. Isexpected to intervene in the foreign exchange market tostabilise exchange rates, political sources said.    Asked if the U.S. Federal Reserve Board agreed in Parislast month to intervene to stabilise exchange rates, Miyazawasaid yes, the sources said.    Miyazawa was also quoted as saying that he is scepticalabout the effectiveness of currency reference ranges even ifmajor nations agree on such an idea as it is extremelydifficult to set such ranges. REUTER
BUNDESBANK ALLOCATES 6.5 BILLION MARKS IN TENDER The Bundesbank accepted bids for 6.5billion marks at today's tender for a 28-day securitiesrepurchase pact at a rate of 3.80 pct, a central bank spokesmansaid.    Banks, which bid for a total 8.6 billion marks liquidity,will be credited with the funds allocated tomorrow and must buyback securities pledged on April 22.    The allocation was in line with market expectations theBundesbank would provide more than the 3.4 billion marksdraining from this week as an earlier facility expires.    Call money fell to 3.60/70 pct ahead of the allocation from3.75/85 pct yesterday, dealers said.    The excess allocation compensates for public funds leavingthe system which the Bundesbank added last week viagovernment-owned banks.    However major tax payments by banks on behalf of customersdrew to a close this week, lessening the need for liquidity.    The call money declines surprised some dealers, whospeculated it was because the Bundesbank disbursed furthergovernment funds today. However, most said this had notoccurred.    Banks were well stocked with liquidity, having 47.1 billionmarks in minimum reserves at the Bundesbank on Friday, up from49.9 billion on Thursday. Average daily reserves over the first20 days of the month fell to 52.6 billion from 53.1 billion.For all of March, banks would be required to hold net dailyaverage reserves of 50.7 billion marks, dealers said. REUTER
SPAIN RAISES CALL MONEY RATES ON HIGHER DEMAND The Bank of Spain raised overnight callmoney rates by 1/4 to 14 pct on demand for 746 billion pesetasin today's auction, which a bank spokesman termed "heavy."    Rates stood at 12.1 pct at the start of the year and havebeen increased to drain liquidity on rising demands for funds,the spokesman said.    He said in reply to Reuters inquiries that rates could risefurther if money supply growth rose above this year's eight pcttarget for M-4, defined as liquid assets in public hands.    Money supply rose at an annualised rate of 16.7 pct lastmonth against 8.1 pct in January. Growth was 11.4 pct in 1986.    A leading Spanish broker said the central bank was applyinga more restrictive policy to keep the lid on inflation.    The consumer price index rose 8.3 pct last year.    "Money supply control is the government's chief weaponagainst inflation," he said. "The problem is higher rates areattracting liquidity from abroad."    He said this was why the central bank enacted specificmeasures to control the inflow of foreign capital. The Bank ofSpain earlier this month imposed a 19 pct reserve requirementon new convertible peseta funds held by banks to curbshort-term speculative capital from abroad. REUTER
STERLING OUTLOOK CLOUDED BY TEST OF PARIS ACCORD The move by foreign exchange markets totest the strength of the Paris currency accord has thrown intoquestion the near-term outlook for sterling, until recently oneof the main beneficiaries of the agreement, analysts said.    Since the six-nation accord last month, sterling has risensharply, adding almost five pct on its trade-weighted index.    While the accord effectively stifled dollar/yen anddollar/mark movements, the markets turned their attention tosterling as foreign investors rushed to take advantage ofrelatively high U.K. Interest rates.    But analysts say the pound has been sidelined by the firsttentative test of the Paris accord seen yesterday.    The market now looks set sooner or later to push the dollardown further in a test of the willingness of central banks tointervene. Analysts say if the banks do not interveneeffectively, the Paris accord could collapse.    "On balance, sterling would be a net sufferer if G-6collapses," Phillips and Drew analyst Stephen Lewis said.    He said sterling would lose out as markets turned theirattention to capital movements whereas previously they had beenrestricted to looking only at the interest yield on currencies.    However, although most analysts and foreign exchangedealers were forecasting a brief period of consolidation oreven retracement for sterling, none were expecting a very sharpdrop in the U.K. Currency.    Sterling remained supported by optimism on the U.K.Political and economic outlook, firmer oil prices andrelatively high interest rates, they said.    Bullish sentiment on the U.K. Economic outlook has beenrunning especially high after last week's budget, seen aspopular both with the markets and with British voters.    Sterling was also supported by signs of a weakening in theWest German and Japanese economies, where growth for 1987 istrailing behind the three pct forecast for the U.K.    Recent opinion polls showing Britain's ruling conservativeparty ahead of opposition parties in popularity have alsosupported the pound.    In addition, sterling has so far shrugged off twohalf-point cuts in U.K. Bank base lending rates in less thantwo weeks. A further half-point cut, widely expected in thenext week or so, has already been largely discounted.    U.K. Base rates, now running at 10 pct, are stillrelatively high compared to other western countries, andanalysts said a further base rate cut to 9-1/2 pct was unlikelyto affect sterling.    Sterling today appeared resilient to the dollar's decline,dropping only slightly on a cross-rate basis.    Worries about renewed turbulence in the foreign exchangemarkets, however, were reflected in the U.K. Government bond(gilt) market, where prices dropped by up to 5/16 point.    Until now foreign investor interest in the gilt market hasbeen one of the major reasons behind the rise in sterling.    Dealers said they expected the pound to hold quietly steadyfor the next few days while the market awaits furtherdevelopments on the dollar and this Thursday's U.K. Currentaccount figures for February.    Market forecasts are for a deficit of around 250 mln stgafter January's small surplus. REUTER
FED BUYS 500 MLN DLRS OF BILLS FOR CUSTOMER The Federal Reserve purchased about500 mln dlrs of U.S. Treasury bills for a customer, aspokeswoman said.    She said that the Fed bought bills maturing in June andJuly, and on August 27 and September 10 for regular deliverytomorrow.    Dealers said that Federal funds were trading at 6-1/8 pctwhen the Fed announced the operation. Reuter
CITICORP <CCI> RULES OUT CREDIT CARD PRICE WAR American Express Co's <AXP> recentlaunch of a new "OPTIMA" credit card, with relatively lowinterest rates and fees, will increase competition with bankcredit-card issuers but will not lead to a pricing war, asenior Citicorp offical said.    "Over the next two to three years, a very interestingmarketing battle will be fought ... competition will not be onprice but on product features," Pei-yuan Chia, head of the U.S.card products group, told a banking analysts meeting.    Citicorp is the leading U.S. bank credit-card issuer, withsome 10 mln accounts and an 11 pct market share.    Chia said that Citicorp would focus its credit cardmarketing efforts on acceptance, noting that Visa andMastercard currently enjoy a two-to-one advantage over AmericanExpress in terms of worldwide acceptance.    He also doubted the popularity of American Express' plan tolink interest charges on the new OPTIMA card to the bank primelending rate. "The consumer likes to have a fixed rateinstrument," he said.    Richard Braddock, head of the whole individual bankingdivision, added that when there is increased competition, "itis not the big people who get crunched but the small ones." Reuter
TREASURY BALANCES AT FED ROSE ON MARCH 23 Treasury balances at the FederalReserve rose on March 23 to 3.332 billion dlrs from 3.062billion dlrs on the previous business day, the Treasury said inits latest budget statement.    Balances in tax and loan note accounts fell to 15.513billion dlrs from 17.257 billion dlrs on the same respectivedays.    The Treasury's operating cash balance totaled 18.845billion dlrs on March 23 compared with 20.318 billion dlrs onMarch 20. Reuter
Sumita says Bank of Japan has no intention of lowering its disco Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumitasaid the central bank has no intention of cutting its discountrate again as a way of preventing the yen's rise.    He told a press conference that the growth of Japanesemoney supply remains high.    The bank will have to watch closely various developmentsresulting from its already eased monetary stance, such as thesharp rise in real estate and stock prices, he said.    Although the yen's rise will have a greater deflationaryimpact on the economy, the economy is not likely to slow downmuch further, Sumita said.    "I don't think we should change our economic outlook at themoment," Sumita said.    Sumita has said in the past that he expects the economy toshow a gradual upturn in the second half of the year.    The governor said the six major industrial nations areexpected to review last month's pact on currency stability whenthey meet next in April.    Dealers said they expect the six - Britain, Canada, France,Japan, the U.S. Amd West Germany - to meet just before theIMF/World Bank interim committee meeting in Washington startingon April 9. REUTER
NEW DUTCH SPECIAL ADVANCES TOTAL 4.2 BILLION The Dutch Central Bank said itallocated 4.183 billion guilders at tender for the new 5.3 pct,nine-day special advances.    Bids were fully met for the first 200 mln guilders and for40 pct above.    The new advances for the period March 25 to April 4,replace current 5.3 pct, five day advances totalling 4.003billion guilders which expire today.    Money brokers said yesterday they expected the Bank toallocate about 3.5 billion guilders. REUTER
JAPAN DOES NOT INTEND TO CUT DISCOUNT RATE-SUMITA Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumitasaid the central bank has no intention of cutting its discountrate again as a way of preventing the yen's rise.    He told a press conference that the growth of Japanesemoney supply remains high.    The bank will have to watch closely various developmentsresulting from its already eased monetary stance, such as thesharp rise in real estate and stock prices, he said.    Although the yen's rise will have a greater deflationaryimpact on the economy, the economy is not likely to slow downmuch further, Sumita said.    "I don't think we should change our economic outlook at themoment," Sumita said.    Sumita has said in the past that he expects the economy toshow a gradual upturn in the second half of the year.    The governor said the six major industrial nations areexpected to review last month's pact on currency stability whenthey meet next in April.    Dealers said they expect the six - Britain, Canada, France,Japan, the U.S. Amd West Germany - to meet just before theIMF/World Bank interim committee meeting in Washington startingon April 9. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET SURPLUS REVISED TO 250 MLN STG The Bank of England said it revised upits forecast of today's surplus in the money markets to 250 mlnstg from its earlier estimate of a 150 mln.    The central bank has not operated in the market today. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES IN MARKET The Federal Reserve will probablyintervene in the government securities market to add reservestoday, economists said.    They expected the Fed will supply temporary reservesindirectly via 1.5 to two billion dlrs of customer repurchaseagreements.    Fed funds hovered at a relatively high 6-1/4 pct thismorning after averaging 6.14 pct on Tuesday.    Early this afternoon the Fed also is expected to supplyreserves permanently, effective Thursday, by offering to buyall maturities of Treasury bills. Reuter
EXCHANGE RATE BILL CLEARS U.S. HOUSE PANEL The House Banking Committee adoptedlegislation to direct the U.S. Treasury to begin negotiationsaimed at seeking regular adjustment of exchange rates by  countries such as Taiwan and South Korea, whose currencies arepegged to the value of the U.S. dollar.    The measure was adopted as part of a wide-ranging tradebill that will be considered by the full House in April beforeit moves on to the Senate.    The bill's many provisions also set as a priority for theU.S. the negotiation of stable exchange rates and urgegovernment intervention as necessary to offset fluctuations.    In addition, the Banking Committee bill would authorizeU.S. banks to use a variety of means to deal with the debtproblems of developing countries, such as lowering interestrates on existing debt, renegotiating loans or debtforgiveness. The bill would give a blanket waiver of anyfederal banking regulations that bar such actions.    The bill would direct Treasury Secretary James Baker todiscuss with debt-ridden developing countries the possibilityof the U.S. setting up a public debt management agency thatwould purchase their debt at a discount and negotiate therestructuring of the debt.    The Banking bill authorizes U.S. participation in amultilateral investment guarantee agency (MIGA) as requested bythe administration. Congress would approve an initial U.S.subscription of 22 mln dlrs.    And, it sets up a council on industrial competitivenesscomposed of industry and administration members to explore waysto make the U.S. more competitive in world markets. Reuter
AUSTRALIAN RESERVE BANK CUTS REDISCOUNT RATE The Reserve Bank of Australia this morningcut the rediscount rate from 17.30 pct to 17.00 pct.    The rediscount is the rate at which the bank buys backtreasury notes.    Market sources said the cut reflected the recent easing inmarket interest rates. They also pointed to yesterday'streasury note tender where the 400 mln dlrs of 13-week noteswent at an average yield of 15.473 pct, down from 15.870 lastweek. The 100 mln dlrs of 26-week notes went at an average15.414 from 15.790 last week. Reuter
FURTHER YEN RISE WOULD HURT JAPAN ECONOMY, SUMITA Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumitasaid a further yen rise would have adverse effects on theJapanese economy.    He told Japanese business leaders the Bank of Japan willcontinue to take adequate measures, including marketintervention, to stabilize exchange rates if necessary, inclose cooperation with other major industrialized nations. Hesaid the current instability of exchange rates will not last.    Six major nations - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, theU.S. And West Germany - agreed in Paris last month to acttogether to hold currencies stable.    Sumita said the Bank of Japan will continue to pursueadequate and flexible monetary policies while watching economicand financial developments in and outside Japan.    He said the decision to cut the discount rate on February20 was a hard choice for the Bank because monetary conditionshad already been sufficiently eased.    To prevent a resurgence of inflation, the Bank will take avery cautious stance regarding developments stemming from easycredit conditions, he said.    He said the latest discount rate cut to 2.5 pct shouldstabilize exchange rates and expand domestic demand.    Commenting on the dollar's fall below 150 yen, Sumitareiterated he cannot find any specific reason for thecurrency's weakness.    The market undertook speculative dollar selling by reactingto overseas comments by monetary authorities and trade tension,he said.    Sumita repeated that the Japanese economy may graduallyrecover in the latter half of the 1987/88 fiscal year endingApril 1, 1988, provided exchange rates stabilize. REUTER
BANK OF FRANCE LAUNCHES MONEY MARKET TENDER The Bank of France said it set a moneymarket intervention tender today to inject funds to the marketagainst first category paper.    Money market sources said the surprise announcement mightherald a quarter percentage point cut in the central bankintervention rate from the 7-3/4 pct level set March 10, butthey added such a cut was relatively unlikely.    The intervention rate was cut from eight pct on March 10after being raised from 7-1/4 pct on January 2 to head offspeculative pressure against the franc.    Dealers said market fundamentals could justify a furthereasing, but a combination of technical factors and renewedcurrency uncertainties surrounding the dollar had putshort-term upside pressure on interest rates in recentsessions.    Call money rose yesterday to 7-7/8 eight pct from 7-3/4 7/8pct. Today it was first indicated at 8-1/8 1/4 before easing onnews of the tender to 7-13/16 7/8 pct.    Technical factors making for a slight shortage of liquidityin the market included the settlement yesterday of the latestmonthly treasury tap stock tender, on March 5, market sourcessaid. REUTER
Danish overnight money market rate cut to 10 pct from 10.5 - cent Australia's largest company, The BrokenHill Pty Co Ltd <BRKN.S> (BHP), is expected to report a netprofit of around 600 mln to 620 mln dlrs tomorrow for the firstnine months ended February 28, share analysts polled by Reuterssaid.    This would be well below the 813.0 mln dlrs earned in thefirst three quarters of 1985/86. In the full year ended May 311986 the group earned a record 988.2 mln dlrs.    The analysts estimated that the group would report a thirdquarter net in the region of 200 mln to 220 mln dlrs, against238.6 mln a year earlier and 220.3 mln in the second quarter.    BHP's earnings in the first half ended November 30 amountedto 397.0 mln dlrs, sharply down from 589.3 mln a year earlier.    The analysts predicted that BHP will report an upturn inpetroleum earnings compared with the first quarter, reflectingsome improvement in crude oil prices from the Bass Straitfields, but these gains would be offset by lower mineral andsteel earnings.    They said the mineral group has been hit by lower coalprices and shipments to Japan while the steel division has beenaffected by industrial and production problems.    The analysts noted that the third quarter is normally BHP'slowest-earning period owing to a number of seasonal factors,and they predicted a sharp rise in fourth quarter net to around300 mln dlrs.    One key factor in the fourth quarter is expected to be atax break of some 70 mln dlrs for the investment allowance oncapital expenditure in the steel division, they said.    They said they saw BHP's full year earnings at around 900mln to 920 mln dlrs. They added that such a decline from1985/86 would be no surprise, noting BHP has said that it wouldbe difficult to equal its record 1985/86 net profit. REUTER
U.K. TRADE FIGURES BUOY HOPES OF INTEREST RATE CUT The release of U.K. February trade datashowing that the current account surplus was a provisional 376mln stg, up from a 73 mln surplus in January, has boosted hopesof an early cut in interest rates, analysts said.    Market forecasts had been for a worse outcome, withexpectations of a deficit in visible trade averaging about 750mln stg, against the official figure of 224 mln stg, sharplynarrower than January's 527 mln deficit.    "The figures are unreservedly good," Chase ManhattanSecurities economist Andrew Wroblewski said.    Sterling rebounded on the trade figures, reversing a weakermorning trend, to stand at 72.1 pct of its trade weighted indexagainst a basket of currencies at midday, unchanged fromyesterday's close but 0.3 points above the 1100 GMT level.    The market had feared that a deteriorating non-oil tradepattern would undermine international support for sterling,which has been the motor behind the recent fall in U.K.Interest rates. Money market sources said the market had begunto doubt that a widely expected drop in bank base lending ratesto 9.5 pct from the present 10.0 pct was really on the cards.    But sentiment now looks to have turned about again.    There now looks to be no danger that the Chancellor of theExchequer Nigel Lawson's forecast of a 1987 current accountdeficit of 2.5 billion stg will be exceeded, Wroblewski said.    Seasonally adjusted figures showed imports rose in Februaryto 7.16 billion stg from 6.73 billion in January.    Exports rose to a record 6.93 billion from 6.20 billion.    However, Chris Tinker, U.K. Analyst at brokers Phillips andDrew said the faster rise in exports than imports would provepartly aberrational in coming months. He forecast theChancellor's Budget tax cuts would increase consumerexpenditure on imported goods.    However, Warburg Securities economist Ian Harwood said hisfirm was sharply revising its 1987 current account deficitforecast in the light of the latest data, cutting one billionstg off the expected full year total to about 1.75 billion stg.    He said news of strong growth in exports of non-oil goodsconfirmed recent bullish surveys among members of theConfederation of British Industry.    The growth in imports appears to be flattening, even ifJanuary's bad weather had curbed consumer spending on overseasgoods and import-intensive stock building among manufacturers,Harwood said.    U.K. Government bonds, or gilts, surged by more than 1/2point on the better-than-expected news, as earlier worriesabout the figures evaporated.    Sterling peaked at a high of 1.6075 dlrs, before settlingto a steady 1.6050 about 1300 GMT, nearly a cent higher thanthe European low of 1.5960.    However, analysts noted that the turnabout in marketsentiment still looks highly vulnerable to political news.    Morning weakness in sterling and the gilt market waslargely attributed to a newspaper opinion poll showing that theConservative government's support was slipping.    LONDON, March 26 - The Bank of England said it provided 15mln stg in assistance to the money market this morning, buyingbank bills in band two at 9-13/16 pct.    Earlier the Bank revised its money market liquidityforecast from a flat position to a deficit of around 350 mlnstg. REUTER
BANK OF SPAIN PROVIDES YEAR RECORD ASSISTANCE FUNDS The Bank of Spain provided 1,145 billionpesetas in assistance funds which bankers said reflected fearsof fresh increases in overnight rates.    The daily auction was the biggest of the year and comesafter the previous record set last June 6 of 1,240 billionpesetas.    A spokesman for one of Spain top five banks said higherovernight call money rates were expected in the short term inview of disappointing money supply figures for February.    The M-4 money supply, measured as liquid assets in publichands, rose 16.7 pct last month against 8.1 pct in January andcompared with this year's eight pct target. Money supply growthwas 11.4 pct last year.    The central bank on Tuesday raised overnight rates by aquarter of a percentage point to 14 pct on demand for 746billion pesetas. Rates stood at 12.1 pct at the start of theyear and have been increased to drain liquidity on risingdemand for funds. "The policy is proving counter-productive andrates will have to come down in the long-term," the bankspokesman said in reply to Reuters enquiries.    He said higher rates were fuelling an influx of short-termspeculative capital from abroad.    "At least 800 mln dlrs of current excess liquidity in thesystem is convertible pesetas from West Germany and othercountries with much lower rates," he said. REUTER
U.K. TRADE FIGURES BUOY HOPES OF INTEREST RATE CUT The release of U.K. February trade datashowing that the current account surplus was a provisional 376mln stg, up from a 73 mln surplus in January, has boosted hopesof an early cut in interest rates, analysts said.    Market forecasts had been for a worse outcome, withexpectations of a deficit in visible trade averaging about 750mln stg, against the official figure of 224 mln stg, sharplynarrower than January's 527 mln deficit.    "The figures are unreservedly good," Chase ManhattanSecurities economist Andrew Wroblewski said.    Sterling rebounded on the trade figures, reversing a weakermorning trend, to stand at 72.1 pct of its trade weighted indexagainst a basket of currencies at midday, unchanged fromyesterday's close but 0.3 points above the 1100 GMT level.    The market had feared that a deteriorating non-oil tradepattern would undermine international support for sterling,which has been the motor behind the recent fall in U.K.Interest rates. Money market sources said the market had begunto doubt that a widely expected drop in bank base lending ratesto 9.5 pct from the present 10.0 pct was really on the cards.    But sentiment now looks to have turned about again.    There now looks to be no danger that the Chancellor of theExchequer Nigel Lawson's forecast of a 1987 current accountdeficit of 2.5 billion stg will be exceeded, said Wroblewski.    Seasonally adjusted figures showed that imports rose inFebruary to 7.16 billion stg from 6.73 billion in January.    Exports rose to a record 6.93 billion from 6.20 billion.    However, Chris Tinker, U.K. Analyst at brokers Phillips andDrew said that the faster rise in exports than imports wouldprove partly aberrational in coming months. He forecast theChancellor's Budget tax cuts would increase consumer expeditureon imported goods.    However, Ian Harwood, economist at Warburg Securities, saidhis firm was sharply revising its 1987 current account deficitforecast in the light of the latest data, cutting one billionstg off the expected full year total to about 1.75 billion stg.    He said news of strong growth in exports of non-oil goodsconfirmed recent bullish surveys among members of theConfederation of British Industry.    The growth in imports appears to be flattening, even ifJanuary's bad weather had curbed consumer spending on overseasgoods and import-intensive stock building among manufactureres,Harwood said.    U.K. Government bonds, or gilts, surged by more than 1/2point on the better-than-expected news, as earlier worriesabout the figures evaporated.    Sterling peaked at a high of 1.6075 dlrs, before settlingto a steady 1.6050 dlrs about 1300 GMT, nearly a cent higherthan the European low of 1.5960.    However, analysts noted that the turnabout in marketsentiment still looks highly vulnerable to political news.    Morning weakness in sterling and the gilt market waslargely attributed to a newspaper opinion poll showing that theConservative government's support was slipping.    The Marplan poll, published in "Today," showed Conservativesupport had fallen to 36 pct, from 38 pct last month, while theAlliance of Liberals and Social Democrats had rallied to 31pct, from 21 pct, to run neck and neck with the Labour Party,whose own support fell from 38 pct.    The poll was taken after the Budget, which was greetedenthusiastically by financial markets but seems to have leftthe voters indifferent, political observers said.    Another regular poll is due tomorrow, and eonomists warnthat today's improved sentiment could be dented if support forPrime Minister Margaret Thatcher slips again.    This upsetting of the markets' political perceptions, whichare all but discounting a Conservative victory in the upcominggeneral election, made them more sensitive to the trade data,Harwood said. "The news did come as a very, very substantialrelief," he said.    However, on the interest rate front, economists cautionthat Lawson might be wary of leaving sterling vulnerable byencouraging another base rate fall. They noted Lawson hadalready got an inflation-reducing cut in mortgage rates inresponse to lower base rates, so domestic political reasons forlower rates have been curtailed. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET RECEIVES 226 MLN STG ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it operated inthe money market this afternoon, buying 226 mln stg in bills.    In band one, the central bank bought 37 mln stg treasurybills and 72 mln stg bank bills at 9-7/8 pct together with 117mln stg band two bank bills at 9-13/16 pct.    This brings total money market help so far today to 241 mlnstg and compares with the Bank's revised estimate of a 350 mlnstg shortfall. REUTER
FED SETS TWO BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE,  Shr 34 cts vs 20 cts    Net 2,253,000 vs 1,332,000    Sales 89.7 mln vs 85.9 mln    Year    Shr 94 cts vs 64 cts    Net 6,191,000 vs 4,257,000    Sales 316.4 mln vs 286.7 mln    NOTE: Prior year net both periods includes 2,100,000 dlrcharge from sale of Craft Showcase stores. Reuter
FED SETS TWO BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.government securities market to arrange two billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a spokeswoman for the New YorkFed said.    Federal funds were trading at 6-3/16 pct at the time of theindirect injection of temporary reserves. Reuter
PARIS G-6 MEET SET NO TARGETS - LEIGH-PEMBERTON Bank of England Governor RobinLeigh-Pemberton said the Paris pact agreed between six leadingindustrialised nations set no nominal exchange rate targets.    Leigh-Pemberton said in oral evidence to a select committeethat "we did not swap numbers - we reached an understanding" onhow to cooperate towards stabilizing currencies at around theircurrent levels.    He said the accord had brought Britain into a form of jointcurrency float - but one which let it still purse anindependent monetary policy. "I would concede that, since theLouvre Accord, we are acting as if we are in something,"Leigh-Pemberton said.    "The Louvre and Plaza accords show there is a very effectiverole for the (Group of) seven central banks to operate together"towards stabilising exchange rates," Leigh-Pemberton said.    He did not mention this week's intervention by centralbanks to support the dollar, after markets decided to test theaccord.     Leigh-Pemberton said that "the effectiveness of this(cooperation) is actually larger than many of us had thought inthe pre-Plaza days" before September 1985.    He did not indicate what exchange rate levels were broadlysought by the six nations, and noted that "we are more effectivein our agreement if we can leave the markets guessing."    He did not indicate what exchange rate levels were broadlysought by the six nations, and noted that "we are more effectivein our agreement if we can leave the markets guessing."    Leigh-Pemberton said that, in principle, the Bank ofEngland favoured full EMS membership for sterling, providedsuch a move did not endanger U.K. Anti-inflation monetarypolicy. Asked whether he wanted to see U.K. Interest rateslower, he said "the two half point cuts (this month in banks'base lending rates) have been appropriate up until now."    Leigh-Pemberton said he preferred a "cautious step-by-stepapproach" to reducing short term interest rates, not leastbecause "we have a potential problem with inflation."    Underlying U.K. Inflation was currently around 4.0 pct, "oneof the highest" among industrialised nations, he added.    Leigh-Pemberton said the Bank of England had not wantedbase rates to fall before the unveiling of the 1987/88 budgeton March 17, but he said pressure from financial markets forsuch a move had proved irresistible. Base rates are now at 10pct.    Regarding sterling's relationship with oil, Leigh-Pembertonsaid that the pound could be seen being undervalued overall.    He said the current oil price of some 18 dlrs a barrelmight suggest a level of 74 on the Bank of England's sterlingindex, when compared with the index's level before oil pricesdropped from around the 30 dlr level. The index, base 1975,closed here today at 72.1, unchanged from the previous close. Reuter
N.Y. BANK DISCOUNT BORROWINGS NIL IN WEEK The eight major New York City banksdid not borrow from the Federal Reserve in the week endedWednesday March 25, a Fed spokesman said.    It was the second half of a two-week bank statement periodthat ended on Wednesday. The banks did not borrow in the firstweek of the period. Reuter
FED DATA INDICATE POLICY LIKELY TO STAY ON HOLD Federal Reserve data released todayindicate that there has been no policy change in recent weeksand that none is likely at next week's Federal Open MarketCommittee (FOMC) meeting, economists said.    "The Fed continues to be accommodative in its provision ofreserves, indicating that there has been no policy shift sincethe beginning of this year," said Harold Nathan, economist atWells Fargo Bank.    "These numbers and other things suggest the FOMC will notchange policy," said Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities Co.    "The Fed is sitting fairly pretty now. There's no realreason for it to change policy," said Joseph Liro of S.G.Warburg and Co Inc.    Liro said the economy is showing moderate growth and doesnot require immediate policy easing and the money aggregatesmay well end March at the bottom of their target ranges.    All of the economists agreed that the Fed's major concernnow is recent weakness in the dollar which early this week washeavily supported by central banks. They said fear of hurtingthe dollar will cause the Fed to be cautious in loweringinterest rates further.    Numbers released by the Fed today were all in line withexpectations and similar to the data for most of this year.    The Fed said that banks' net free reserves averaged 603 mlndlrs in the two-week statement period that ended on Wednesdayversus 749 mln dlrs in the previous period.    In the single week to Wednesday, banks' borrowings at thediscount window, less extended credits, averaged 302 mln dlrscompared with 228 mln dlrs in the first week of the statementperiod. Meanwhile the Federal funds rate average edged up to6.14 pct from 6.08 pct.    The Fed's failure to add reserves in the market on Tuesdayand Wednesday surprised some, but economists said the datareleased today suggest it had no real need to add reserves.    The Fed's absence may be explained by the lack of anypressing need for it to supply reserves and by a desire toboost borrowings in the second week of the statement period tomeet its borrowings target, said Liro of Warburg.    Liro said the Fed probably is shooting for a two-weekborrowings average of 300-325 mln dlrs. The borrowings actuallyaveraged 265 mln dlrs in the latest statement period and thatwas up from 191 mln dlrs in the prior period.    Brusca of Nikko agreed that the Fed probably is aiming fortwo-week average discount window borrowings of around 300 mlndlrs. He said that would correspond to a Federal funds rate ofaround 6.10 pct.    It is nearly impossible for the Fed to hit any borrowingstarget since the demand for excess reserves is erratic, saidWells Fargo's Nathan. He said the Fed is focusing instead onthe funds rate and is trying to keep it roughly within a six to6-1/4 pct band.    Upward funds rate pressure and a big reserve-adding needare anticipated for the statement period that began today. More    Brusca believes the Fed will have to add 3.5 to fourbillion dlrs a day in reserves in this statement period. Liroputs the add need at around 3.9 billion dlrs.    To partly address this requirement, many expect the Fed toadd permanent reserves with effect next Thursday by offering tobuy all maturities of Treasury bills on Wednesday. A similarcoupon "pass" may be required later.    There will be a greater demand for funds in this statementperiod because it includes the close of the quarter. Furtherupward pressure on the Federal funds rate may come from windowdressing demand as the Japanese fiscal year ends on March 31. Reuter
 Top discount rate at U.K. Bill tender rises to 9. Sports carmaker Dr. Ing. H.C.F.Porsche AG <PSHG.F> said it expects to post a satisfactoryprofit in 1986/87, with domestic volume sales seen lower butU.S. Sales anticipated higher.    Managing board chairman Peter Schutz said domestic saleswere expected to fall to 9,000 in the year ending July 31 from11,340 in 1985/86. U.S. Sales should rise to more than 30,000from 28,670 last year.    Schutz made no specific profit or sales forecasts. Lastmonth the company said it expected net profit to fall below 70mln marks this year from 75.3 mln marks in 1985/86.    For sales, Porsche expects its overall world volume thisyear to be above 50,000. Sales last year stood at 53,254,Schutz said. His expectations of a satisfactory profit werebased on a combination of price rises and cost-cutting, headded.    The expected drop in West German sales this year would bethe result of the so-called "grey market" for Porsche cars, hesaid. When the dollar was strong against the mark, manyPorsches had been bought locally in West Germany for illegalexport to the U.S.    Porsche has previously said domestic sales in the 1986/87first half fell to 3,267 from 5,387 in the same 1985/86 period.    The fact that U.S. Sales will account for a largerpercentage of overall sales this year than before does not poseproblems for profit, the Porsche board said.    In the last 12 months it has raised U.S. Prices by around20 pct without suffering any decline in sales. At the same timePorsche has hedged its dollar-denominated business for the1986/87 business year, finance director Heinz Branitzki.    Branitzki put Porsche's hedging costs in 1985/86 at 28 mlnmarks.    In a speech to the annual meeting, Schutz said third-partyorders placed with Porsche's engineering research centre inWeissach were rising and should top 100 mln marks this year forthe first time.    Porsche's net profit dropped sharply to 75.3 mln marks in1985/86 from 120.4 mln marks in 1984/85. REUTER
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange one billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.    Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-1/8 pct whenthe Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves tothe banking system. Reuter
GROS DENIES COURT ACTION AGAINST BRAZIL Central Bank president Francisco Grosdenied rumours that foreign creditors had filed court actionsagainst Brazil to seek payment of its 109-billion dlr debt.    "There is no court action against Brazil," Gros said in atelevision interview.    Brazil last month suspended interest payments on its 68billion dlr debt to commercial banks and yesterday suggested anextension of short-term credit lines for 60 days until May 31.    Media reports said some banks rated as small among Brazil's700 creditors had filed lawsuits against the decision tosuspend interest payments.    Gros said negotiations with the commercial creditors wouldstart within two weeks, when he and Finance Minister DilsonFunaro attend council meetings of the International MonetaryFund (IMF) in Washington.    "Brazil is facing the issue very carefully. We are seeking anegotiation that will give the country space to grow, becauseonly with growth will we be able to meet our commitments," Grossaid. REUTER
FED'S POLICY EASE MAY END WITH 2ND QTR RATE CUT The Federal Reserve's move to easiermonetary policy, begun with four quick half-point discount ratecuts in 1986, will likely end with a final rate drop in thesecond quarter, analysts said.    A poll of 10 economists shows most expect interest rates toedge lower, with the Fed likely to drop its basic lending ratefrom 5-1/2 pct late next quarter to help the economy.    "The Fed is not likely to ease policy much further withouta full-blown recession," said Raymond Stone, chief financialeconomist at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.    Stone said economic data available by late June may be justweak enough to prompt one more discount rate cut. But he saidit may only be a quarter-point drop instead of the usual halfpoint, to avoid hurting the dollar further.    All of the economists agreed that the Federal Open MarketCommittee tomorrow will leave Fed policy unchanged.    The average forecast of those surveyed projects roughlyquarter-point drops by the end of June in both the Treasurybond yield, to 7-1/2 pct, and the Federal funds rate at whichbanks lend to one another, to 5-7/8 pct. Most expect the primelending rate at major banks to remain at 7-1/2 pct.    Other broad predictions of the survey, relating mainly tothe April-June quarter, follow:    - The dollar is likely to decline five to 10 pct furtheragainst other major currencies because of a large U.S. budgetdeficit and a wide, but narrowing, trade gap. Contacted afterthe dollar's steep drop in the last two business days, theeconomists reaffirmed this view but stressed the risk is thatthe dollar will fall more, rather than less, than they expect.    - Oil prices in the second quarter are likely to continuetrading roughly between 16 and 19 dlrs a barrel and could welltest the lower end of that range.    - Stocks will continue to outperform bonds next quarter andprobably for all of 1987. Stocks should gain on strongforeign demand and a modest second-half economic rise. Theoutlook for bonds also is less favorable later in the yearsince both inflation and interest rates may be edging up.    - Inflation as measured by the GNP implicit price deflatorwill rise to around 3.3 pct this year from 2.7 pct in 1986. Thesharp fall in the dollar to date will add to inflation, as willa mild economic pickup in the second half of this year.    - U.S. real gross national product, which grew at a two pctannual rate in the 1986 second half, should expand atrespective rates of about 2.3 pct and 2.5 pct in the 1987 firstand second halves. First-quarter growth is put at a 2.4 pctannualrate, slowing to 2.1 pct next quarter.    Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities Co International seesboth the strongest economy and the highest interest rates amongthose surveyed. He expects real GNP, which grew at a 1.1 pctrate in fourth-quarter 1986, to expand at a 3.3 pct rate thisquarter and 3.5 pct next quarter.    "The economy will bounce back more strongly than manyexpect," Brusca said. He said an involuntary buildup ininventories, largely in autos, will add to first-quartereconomic growth, with consumer spending helping later.    "We're running out of special factors to keep the economyafloat," said Philip Braverman of Irving Securities Corp. Hisinterest rate and economic forecasts were among the lowest.    Braverman said tax law changes and inventory accumulationhelped lift fourth and first quarter GNP growth, respectively.He expects 2.5 pct first quarter growth but said that secondquarter growth could be zero or negative.    Braverman said economic activity next quarter will sufferfrom a paring of inventories, lower capital investment, slow government spending and less construction. Only a marginallynarrower trade deficit will add to growth.    He sees a 7.10 pct end-of-June yield on Treasury bonds,with Federal funds and prime rates at 5.50 and seven pct,respectively. Nikko's Brusca projects rates of 8.25 pct forbonds, 6.15 pct for funds and 7.75 pct for the prime rate.    Two of the 10 economists revised rate forecasts up mildlyafter the dollar's fall to 40-year lows versus the yen in pastdays and news of pending U.S. trade sanctions against Japan.    David Resler of Nomura Securities Co International Incraised his end-June bond yield forecast to 7.50 pct from 7.20pct and a Fed funds rate estimate to six pct from 5.80 pct.    Raul Nicho, president of Money Market Services Inc, liftedhis forecast of bond and Fed funds rates an eighth of a pointto eight pct for bonds and 6-1/4 pct for funds. Both Nicho andResler left their end-June prime rate forecast at 7-1/2 pct.    The higher rate forecasts reflected a belief that Japaneseinvestors will be less eager to buy U.S. bonds because of fearabout further dollar erosion and perhaps in response to U.S.trade sanctions. Yields may have to rise to lure other buyers.......END-JUNE U.S. INTEREST RATE FORECASTS........................T-bonds..Fed funds..Prime..Nikko Securities.....8.25......6.15......7.75..Money Mkt Services...8.00......6.25......7.50..Discount Corp........7.75......6.25......7.50..Merrill Lynch........7.30......5.75......7.50..Bankers Trust........7.25......5.50......7.50..Wells Fargo Bank.....7.30......5.60......7.00..Irving Securities....7.10......5.50......7.00..Dean Witter..........7.00......5.50......7.00...FORECAST AVERAGE....7.50......5.875.....7.50...CURRENT LEVELS......7.80......6.125.....7.50.. Reuter
U.K. MONEY MARKET GETS 1.14 BILLION STG EARLY HELP The Bank of England said it had providedthe money market with 1.143 billion mln stg assistance inresponse to an early round of bill offers from the discounthouses.    Earlier, the Bank forecast the system would face a verylarge deficit today of around 1.75 billion stg.    The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprising393 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 649 mln stg in band twoat 9-13/16 pct and 85 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct.    In addition it bought 16 mln stg of local authority billsin band two at 9-13/16 pct. REUTER
BUNDESBANK HAS NOT INTERVENED TODAY, DEALERS The Bundesbank declined to comment onrumours in Tokyo that it was intervening heavily to support thedollar, but dealers here said they had not seen the Germancentral bank in the market all morning.    The dollar was quoted at around 1.8040 marks shortly aftermidday in nervous but quiet trading, up from its 1.7975/85opening.    Spreads against the mark remained around 10 basis points,with some banks quoting only five point spreads. Dealers saidspreads would widen and the dollar would move more sharply ifthe Bundesbank did intervene. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 800 BILLION YEN IN BILLS The Bank of Japan will sell tomorrow atotal of 800 billion yen worth of financing bills from itsholdings to help absorb a projected money market surplus of1,700 billion yen, money traders said.    Of the total, 300 billion yen will yield 3.8992 pct onsales from money houses to banks and securities houses in a23-day repurchase accord maturing on April 24.    The remaining 500 billion yen will yield 3.8990 pct in a31-day repurchase pact maturing on May 2, they said.    The repurchase agreement yields compare with the 3.8750 pctone-month commercial bill discount rate today and the 4.28/11pct rate on one-month certificates of deposit.    Tomorrow's surplus is attributable to excess bank holdingsfrom sales of yen to buy dollars and to huge cash amounts to beredeposited at banks after the current financial year-endtoday, the traders said.    The operation will put the outstanding bill supply at about3,200 billion yen. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 168 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it had providedthe money market with a further 168 mln stg assistance in theafternoon session. This takes the Bank's total help so fartoday to 1.88 billion stg and compares with its estimate of arecord two billon stg shortage in the system.    The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprising25 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 138 mln stg in band two at9-13/16 pct and three mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct.    It also bought two mln stg of treasury bills in band two at9-13/16 pct. REUTER
U.S. TREASURY'S BAKER SEES EXPANSION CONTINUING Treasury Secretary James Baker saidthat the current expansion, which he noted was in its fifthyear, will continue in the period ahead.    He told the House Appropriations Committee that "there isevery prospect that the current expansion will continueunabated through 1987 and the years beyond."    Baker said interest rates over the period have continued todecline and that "policies of the Federal Reserve assure thatample credit was available.    He said that the administration's longer term forecastenvisioned that "we will maintain and improve upon our progressin bringing down the rate of inflation." Reuter
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange 1.5 billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.    Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/8 pct whenthe Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves tothe banking system. Reuter
CITIBANK SAYS IT RAISES BASE RATE TO 7-3/4 PCT FROM 7 GAF Corp chairman Samuel Heyman toldReuters he did not foresee major changes in Borg-Warner <BOR>if GAF's 46 dlr-per-share offer to acquire Borg-Warner issuccessful.    "We have great respect for Borg-Warner mangagement," Heymansaid, following a speech at the American Institute of ChemicalEngineers annual meeting. "We don't have any particular changesin mind."    Earlier today, GAF announced that a 3.16-billion-dlr-offerwas presented to the board of directors of the Chicago-basedcompany.    Last week, GAF had purchased additional shares of thecompany for 40-1/8 dlrs, increasing its stake in Borg-Warner to19.9 pct.    In 1985, GAF made an unsuccessful effort to acquire UnionCarbide Corp for five billion dlrs, and has since expressed aninterest in acquiring a chemical company that would complementits own chemical business.    When asked whether GAF would consider selling thenon-chemical assets of Borg-Warner if its takeover offer isaccepted, Heyman declined to comment.    He also refused to say whether GAF would considerincreasing its the dollar value of its takeover offer if theinitial proposal is rejected.    Heyman emphasized that he considered the GAF offer toBorg-Warner to be a friendly one.    "We think we made a fair offer that is good for Borg-Warnermanagement and good for its shareholders," Heyman said.     In his speech, Heyman said he feared too many chemicalcompanies were attempting to specialize in the same high marginniche products.    He said they were turning their backs on core commoditychemical businesses.     Heyman said the chemical industry has taken a total ofseven billion dlrs in pre-tax writeoffs during the past twoyears to trim balance sheets.    He predicted that the U.S. chemical industry, whichreported a total of 13 billion dlrs in 1986 profits, would seea 20 pct gain in earnings this year because of increasingexports, cheaper feedstock costs and the weakened U.S. dlr. Reuter
CHASE MANHATTAN RAISES PRIME RATE TO 7-3/4 PCT FROM 7-1/2, EFFECTI Pacific Gas and Electric Co saidit expects to record a 470 mln dlr, or 1.25 dlr per share,reduction in 1987 earnings because of the company's decision tochange the method used to record Diablo Canyon Nuclear PowerPlant revenues.    The accounting change will not affect the company's cashposition and the company intends to continue paying itsdividend at the annual rate of 1.92 dlrs per share.    Last year Pacific Gas reported earnings of 925 mln dlrs, or2.60 dlrs per share.    Pacific Gas said the accounting change was prompted bydelays in the receipt of a California Public UtilitiesCommission decision on the company's 1984 application for raterelief to recover the 5.8 billion dlr cost of constructingunits one and two of the Diablo Canyon Nuclear Power Project.    It said the commission is currently allowing the company torecover 40 pct of the cost of owning and operating the plants.    As a result, 63 mln dlrs has been accumulating each monthas deferred non-cash account receivable, which has beenincluded in current income.    But the accounting change, effective January 1, willreflect only cash received through interim rates approved bythe commission, Pacific Gas and Electric said.    It also said the commission is now awaiting its PublicStaff Division's report which will recommend how much of the5.8 billion dlr investment Pacific Gas should be allowed torecover in rates.    The company further stated that it is confident it willreceive an objective review of the facts.    It also said it intends to seek additional interim rates.    Pacific Gas began construction of the two nuclear powerunits in 1969. After a number of construction delays, unit onewent into operation in May 1985 and unit two went on line inMarch last year. Reuter
ANALYSTS SEE SLOW MOVE TO HIGHER U.S. PRIME RATE Quarter-point prime rate increases to7-3/4 pct by Citibank and Chase Manhattan Bank today will befollowed by other banks only after they see clearer signs ofthe Federal Reserve's policy intentions, economists said.    "Based on the spread between banks' cost of funds and theprime rate, it probably makes sense for others to follow, butno rush is likely," said Paul McCulley of E.F. Hutton and Co.    Citibank's surprise base rate increase, quickly followed byChase, sent U.S. bond prices lower and the dollar higher.    McCulley said that once the spread between three-monthcertificates of deposit and the prime rate narrows to less than1-1/2 percentage points, there is a strong chance of a primerate increase. It has been under 1-1/4 points recently.    However, banks are likely to hold rate increases until theysee what the Fed intends to do about interest rates in the nearterm, analysts said. They noted that banks historically like tofollow Fed rate movements, rather than lead them. For example,the last prime rate increase occurred in June 1984 when bankslifted the rate to 13 pct from 12-1/2 pct after a Fed discountrate increase in April of that year.    Major banks had been posting a 7-1/2 pct prime rate sincelast August 26/27, when they lowered the rate from eight pctshortly after the Fed's half-point discount rate cut to thecurrent 5-1/2 pct level on August 20.    "The banks will not rush to raise their prime rates. Thereshould be a split prime for a while with some posting a 7-1/2pct rate and others 7-3/4 pct," said David Jones of Aubrey G.Lanston and Co.    Jones said the Federal Open Market Committee at today'smeeting voted no change in Fed policy. But he said the Fed maywell foster higher interest rates soon.    Jones said that, while the FOMC probably voted no policychange today, it may have decided to apply slight upward ratepressure later if the dollar weakens, inflation pressures heatup or the economy shows sign of strong recovery.    "The Fed clearly indicated that they did not intend totighten policy when they did today's coupon pass," said JosephLiro of S.G. Warburg and Co.    In a move that came a day earlier than most expected, theFed today supplied permanent reserves to the banking system byoffering to buy all maturities of Treasury notes and bonds forits own account. This seasonal reserve add is called a "pass."    "The Fed demonstrated that there has been no policychange," said Elizabeth Reiners, economist at Dean WitterReynolds Inc.     She said the spread between banks' cost of funds and theprime rate is now around 137 basis points compared with a 153basis point average in 1986. Reiners said the spread is notreally narrow enough to present a clear need for a prime rateincrease.    The Dean Witter economist said that today's prime rate rise"may have been less a response to interest rates than anattempt to enhance the (balance sheet) bottom line."    Reiners said that, given recent problems with loans todeveloping countries, large money center banks with heavyexposures might be the first to match the higher prime rate inan effort to get more profitable spreads on other loans.    The Federal funds rate at which banks lend overnight moneyto one another could help determine how many banks match thehigher prime rate and also how quickly they move.    In raising their prime rates, banks cited a higher cost offunds. In the three business days through Monday, the Federalfunds rate at which banks lend to one another averaged nearly6-1/4 pct. But quarter end pressures helped push up funds.      The Fed funds rate was extremely volatile today, reflectingdemand pressure associated with the end of the quarter and theclose of the Japanese fiscal year. Funds traded between fiveand 6-3/4 pct.    Once the special distortions end, analysts said the fundsrate probably will return to its recent trading level in the6-1/8 pct area. They said that, if it stabilizes near there,banks may not quickly boost their prime rates.    But a consistently higher funds rates would suggest to manythat the Fed was fostering somewhat higher interest rates tohelp the dollar. Then banks would lift prime rates quickly. Reuter
SEIPP SAYS GERMAN INTEREST RATES SHOULD FALL The Bundesbank should take furthersteps to reduce German interest rates to protect the mark fromfurther appreciation and to persuade investors to bringlong-term yields lower, Commerzbank AG <CBKG.F> managementboard chairman Walter Seipp said.    But he told the bank's annual news conference this did notmean a cut in leading interest rates, rather a reduction inmoney market rates through bringing the allocation rates downfor Bundesbank securities repurchase agreements.    "Leading interest rates are not the decisive rates," he said."The money market rates are the important ones."    Seipp said the Bundesbank should move away from allocatingmoney market liquidity at a fixed 3.8 pct as it has in recenttender allocations.    An easier monetary policy would not mean a loss ofcredibility for the Bundesbank in its containment of monetarygrowth. A fall in short rates would make the public aware ofthe high yields in bonds and lead to a longer-term capitalformation, braking the expansion of money supply.    "Thus, you can have lower rates and also a normalisation ofmonetary growth both at the same time," he added.    Seipp said there were no grounds to paint too black apicture of the German economy, since company profitability hadimproved over recent years and domestic oriented firms wereprofiting from cheaper imports because of the rise in the mark.    Growth this year should be at least one pct, he said,describing the downturn in production in the first months as afalse start, unrepresentative of the rest of the year.    After an economic contraction in the first quarter, theeconomy should show an uptrend in the last three. "We don'tbelieve that the economy has tipped over, but see it more as a'growth dip,'" Seipp said.    But Seipp also called for support for growth from fiscalpolicy, saying the top rate of income and corporate tax shouldbe brought down to 49 pct. The current peak rate is 56 pct.    The additional tax cuts brought forward to next Januarywere no substitute for support for growth.    Seipp added the federal government should make "furthercourageous steps to decrease the state's proportion of theGerman economy and to increase its flexibility." Reuter
H.K. BANKS TO RAISE PRIME RATES SOON, DEALERS SAY Banks in Hong Kong are likely to raiseprime rates by half a percentage point to 6-1/2 pct following aone-quarter point prime rate increase by two major U.S. Banksyesterday, dealers said.    They told Reuters local banks may decide on the increase atthis weekend's routine meeting of the Hong Kong Association ofBanks.    G.C. Goh, chief dealer of the Standard Chartered Bank, saidprime rate increases by Citibank and Chase Manhattan Bank to7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 may prompt Hong Kong banks to follow suit.    Goh said local banks want to restore the prime to 6-1/2pct, the level at beginning of 1987.    The banks raised the prime to the current six pct from fivepct on February 28 after cutting it 1-1/2 points from 6-1/2 onJanuary 15 in response to upside pressure on the Hong Kongdollar, he said.    The medium and longer term interbank rates firmed today,with three months ending at 5-1/16 to 4-7/8 pct againstyesterday's five to 4-13/16 close. The overnight rate, however,fell to 3-1/2 to three pct from 4-1/2 to four because ofincreased liquidity for a local stock issue. REUTER
GERMAN CALL MONEY DROPS BACK AT MONTH START Call money rates fell to 3.85/95 pctfrom five pct yesterday in moderate trading as month endtightness disappeared and operators took positions for April.    Dealers said they expected rates to remain within a 3.70 tofour pct range this month. A minor tax payment period on behalfof customers mid-month, the long Easter weekend and pensionpayments were unlikely to tighten rates significantly.    Next Wednesday, 14.9 billion marks are leaving the systemon the expiry of a securities repurchase pact. But dealers saidthey expected the Bundesbank to fully replace the outflow witha new tender at a fixed rate of 3.80 pct.    Commerzbank AG's management board chairman Walter Seippcalled on the Bundesbank to reduce interest rates to protectthe mark through bringing the allocation rate for securitiesrepurchase agreements down.    But dealers said the Bundesbank was unlikely to ease creditpolicies at the moment. There was little domestic and foreignpressure for lower rates and no signs of a change.    Yesterday one or two large West German banks effectivelydrained the domestic money market of liquidity in order toachieve higher rates from their overnight deposits, dealerssaid.    Bundesbank figures showed banks held an average daily 50.7billion marks in minimum reserves at the central bank over thefirst 30 days of March, the exact requirement needed just oneday before the end of the month.    Actual holdings on Monday were 42.0 billion marks.    Because rates soared to the level of the Lombard emergencyfunding rate yesterday, banks fell back on the loan facility todraw down a high 5.3 billion marks in an attempt to meetBundesbank needs, the data showed. REUTER
INDIAN RATE CUTS TO SPARK INDUSTRY, AGRICULTURE The Indian Finance Ministry'sannouncement in Parliament yesterday, changing the nation'sinterest rate structure, will benefit industry and agricultureby providing loans at lower interest, bankers and brokers said.    The changes, effective today, included reducing commercialbank lending rates that have ranged between 15 pct and 17.5 pctby one percentage point.    New rates, which affect both Indian and foreign banks, alsoinclude a one percentage point gain, to an annual 10 pct, ondeposits of two years or more but less than five.    Bank deposits of five years or more carrying 11 pctinterest have been abolished.    Bankers said the interest rate modifications reflect thegovernment's concern to reduce the costs of borrowing and helpimprove world competitiveness of Indian goods.    There is likely to be a shift to short-term bank depositsby long-term depositors, bankers predicted. This will createthe flexibility to draw and re-invest funds in either equityshares or short-term bank deposits, they said.    A merchant banker also said reduced manufacturing costs dueto lower lending rates are likely to boost the share market.    Tata Steel, a trend setter on the Bombay Stock Exchange,opened today higher at 1,040 rupees against yesterday's closingof 1,012.50 rupees.    A stockbroker said investors may be less enthusiastic nowto buy convertible and non-convertible debentures because theFinance Ministry has reduced the annual interest rate to 12.5pct and 14 pct respectively from 13.5 and 15 pct respectively.    "But overall debenture prospects remain bright because therates of interest on them will still be higher than what bankspay for deposits of similar maturity," a merchant banker said. REUTER
H.K. BANKS TO RAISE PRIME RATES SOON, DEALERS SAY Banks in Hong Kong are likely to raiseprime rates by half a percentage point to 6-1/2 pct following aone-quarter point prime rate increase by two major U.S. Banksyesterday, dealers said.    They told Reuters local banks may decide on the increase atthis weekend's routine meeting of the Hong Kong Association ofBanks.    G.C. Goh, chief dealer of the Standard Chartered Bank, saidprime rate increases by Citibank and Chase Manhattan Bank to7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 may prompt Hong Kong banks to follow suit.    Goh said local banks want to restore the prime to 6-1/2pct, the level at beginning of 1987.    The banks raised the prime to the current six pct from fivepct on February 28 after cutting it 1-1/2 points from 6-1/2 onJanuary 15 in response to upside pressure on the Hong Kongdollar, he said.    The medium and longer term interbank rates firmed today,with three months ending at 5-1/16 to 4-7/8 pct againstyesterday's five to 4-13/16 close. The overnight rate, however,fell to 3-1/2 to three pct from 4-1/2 to four because ofincreased liquidity for a local stock issue. REUTER
LOWER INTEREST RATES SEEN FOLLOWING IRISH BUDGET Financial markets welcomed publicspending cuts announced by Ireland's new minority government inits budget, saying the move would lead to lower interest rates.    Finance Minister Ray MacSharry, making cuts across theboard, reduced the Exchequer Borrowing Requirement to 1.85billion punts, 10.7 pct of GNP, compared with 2.15 billionpunts or 13 pct of GNP last year.    Allied Irish Banks foreign exchange dealer John Kearneycommented: "I would see interest rates coming down by two to 2.5pct in the next three months." REUTER
U.S. CREDIT MARKET OUTLOOK - PRIME RATE The prospect that other banks willfollow industry leaders Citibank and Chase Manhattan in raisingtheir prime rate is likely to cast a pall over the creditmarkets today, economists said.    Bond prices had been making a smart recovery from two daysof heavy selling when Citibank surprised the market byannouncing a quarter-point increase in its prime rate to 7-3/4pct. Chase Manhattan quickly followed.    Prices quickly fell by a full point, even though the dollar- the market's overriding concern of late - rose sharply on thenews.    Citibank cited the higher cost of money, especially in theEuromarket, as the reason for raising its prime rate.    Part of this rise in market rates has been caused by fearsof a tighter Federal Reserve policy to defend the dollar, buteconomists said it is too early to tell whether the Fed, whosepolicy-making federal open market committee, FOMC, meets thisweek, is already tightening its grip on credit.    "The Fed seems to have been a bit slow in meeting thebanking system's reserve needs this statement period, but Iwouldn't conclude anything until I've seen the Fed data," saidJeffrey Leeds of Chemical Bank. REUTER^M
BUNDESBANK WILL NOT HOLD PRESS CONFERENCE TOMORROW The Bundesbank will not hold a pressconference after its regular fortnightly council meetingtomorrow, a spokesman said in answer to enquiries.    Bundesbank vice-president Helmut Schlesinger will chair themeeting, as president Karl Otto Poehl has a private engagement.    The next meeting is scheduled for April 16. REUTER
MANUFACTURERS HANOVER RAISES PRIME RATE TO 7-3/4  Oper shr loss 19 cts vs profit one ct    Oper net loss 1,495,000 vs profit 50,000    Revs 52.3 mln vs 48.9 mln    NOTE: Earnings exclude gains from utilization of tax losscarryforwards of 82,000 dlrs, or one ct a share vs 300,000dlrs, or three cts a share Reuter
MANUFACTURERS HANOVER <MHC> RAISES PRIME RATE Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co becamethe third major U.S. bank to increase its prime rate to 7-3/4pct from 7-1/2, matching a move initiated yesterday by Citibankand Chase Manhattan.    The bank, the main subsidiary of Manufacturers HanoverCorp, said the new rate is effective today. Reuter
IRVING TRUST <V> RAISES PRIME RATE Irving Trust Co said it is raising itsprime rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2, effective immediately.    It becomes the fourth U.S. bank to raise the rate,following Citibank, Chase Manhattan and Manufacturers HanoverTrust. Reuter
CHEMICAL <CHL> RAISES PRIME RATE TO 7-3/4 PCT Chemical Bank, the main bank subsidiaryof Chemical New York Corp, said it is raising its prime lendingrate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective immediately. Reuter
MARINE MIDLAND <MMB> RAISES PRIME RATE Marine Midland Banks Inc said it israising its prime lending rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct,effective immediately. Reuter
FHLBB CHANGES SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES The Federal Home Loan Bank Boardadjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows:    MATURITY   NEW RATE  OLD RATE  MATURITY   30-69 days  5.00 pct  5.00 pct   30-124 days   70-88 days  5.92 pct  5.90 pct  125-150 days  89-123 days  5.00 pct  5.00 pct  151-173 days 124-150 days  5.93 pct  5.92 pct  174-182 days 151-349 days  5.00 pct  5.00 pct  183-349 days 350-360 days  5.98 pct  5.94 pct  350-360 days Reuter
MERCANTILE BANK N.A. <MTRC> RAISES PRIME RATE Mercantile Bancorp said its MercantileBank N.A. raised its prime rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct,effective immediately. Reuter
CONTINENTAL ILLINOIS <CIL> RAISES PRIME RATE Continental Illinois Corp said it hasraised its prime rate to 7-3/4 from 7-1/2. Reuter
FREDDIE MAC ADJUSTS SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT RATES The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corpadjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows:   MATURITY   RATE       OLD RATE  MATURITY    32 days   6.00 pct   6.10 pct   1 day   Reuter
FHLBB CHANGES SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES The Federal Home Loan Bank Boardadjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows:    MATURITY   NEW RATE  OLD RATE  MATURITY                         5.00 pct    30-69 days                         5.92 pct    70-88 days  30-123 days  5.00 pct  5.00 pct   89-123 days 124-150 days  5.93 pct  5.93 pct  124-150 days 151-349 days  5.00 pct  5.00 pct  151-349 days 350-360 days  5.98 pct  5.98 pct  350-360 days Reuter
TREASURY'S BAKER HOPES PRIME RATE RISE TEMPORARY Treasury Secretary James Baker saidhe hopes yesterday's small increase in two major money centerbanks' prime rate was a temporary phenomenon.    "I hope it was a temporary blip upward," he told a HouseAppropriations subcommittee.    He said the decline in interest rates since PresidentReagan took office remains "one of the significantaccomplishments, in the economic area, of this administration." Reuter
FHLBB CHANGES SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES The Federal Home Loan Bank Boardadjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows:    MATURITY   NEW RATE  OLD RATE  MATURITY                                                                                             30-123 days  5.00 pct  5.00 pct  30-123 days 124-150 days  5.90 pct  5.93 pct  124-150 days 151-349 days  5.00 pct  5.00 pct  151-349 days 350-360 days  5.96 pct  5.98 pct  350-360 days Reuter
IIF EXECUTIVE SEES INTEREST RATES DECLINING Institute of International FinanceManaging Director Horst Schulmann said that his orgnaizationhas been forecasting further declines of interest rates in thefirst half this year and then a levelling off and there is noreason to change that.    Speaking to reporters, the bank research group said thatthe increase in interest rates announced yesterday and otheractivity in the foreign exchange markets did not indicate afundamental change in the outlook.    Schulmann, speaking broadly about the global debt problem,said that the International Monetary Fund should increase itsassistance to third world countries.    The remarks come just before next week's meeting of theIMF's Interim Committee and the Joint Development Committee ofthe IMF and World Bank.    In a letter to the committee's, the bank group said,"Commercial banks cannot be the dominant supplier of balance ofpayments finance."    Schulmann said that IMF exposure peaked in 1985 and hasdeclined a bit since then. Reuter
AUSTRIAN BANKS DIVIDED OVER INTEREST RATE CUT Calls for a cut in Austrian interestrates have grown in recent days but bank chiefs are dividedover the issue.    Karl Vak, General Director of the Zentralsparkasse undKommerzialbank, Wien, called today for a cut of up to half apercentage point in interest rates across the board. But HannesAndrosch, head of Creditanstalt-Bankverein <CABV.VI> toldReuters he opposed a cut because it would hurt small savers.    Vak told a news conference that last January's cut inlending rates for commercial customers and for all depositorsby a quarter point had been insufficient.    The January cut followed the National Bank's lowering ofits discount and Lombard rates by half a point in line with asimilar Bundesbank move. Prime lending rate is now 8.75 pct anddeposit rates vary between 3.25 and 5.75 pct.    Yesterday Hellmuth Klauhs, head of the GenossenschaftlicheZentralbank AG, said rates could fall at least a quarter of apoint, or even half a point if German rates dropped further.    Vak noted that inflation had fallen below one pct. Awidening gap between Austrian rates and cheaper West Germancredit along with forecasts of slow Austrian economic growththis year also justified a further interest drop, he said.    Karl Pale, head of Girozentrale und Bank deroesterreichischen Sparkassen AG [GIRV.VI] has also called forlower deposit rates but said lending rates should remainunchanged at the moment. Interest margins were too small,particularly when compared with other West European countries.    But Hans Haumer, head of the Erste OesterreichischeSpar-Casse-Bank told Reuters that no cut should be made unlessWest German rates came down first.    Banking sources said no bank seemed ready to lower ratesalone and supporters of a cut would have difficulty overcomingopposition from Creditanstalt, Austria's biggest bank. REUTER
MANUFACTURERS NATIONAL <MNTL> UNIT LIFTS RATE Manufacturers National Corp'sManufacturers Bank-Wilmington said it increased the interestrate on its no-fee variable rate MasterCard to 13.6 pct from13.3 pct.    The new interest rate applies to the second quarter. Therate on the card is set quarterly. Reuter
BANKERS TRUST <BT> RAISES PRIME LENDING RATE Bankers Trust Co said it has raised itsprime lending rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2, effectiveimmediately.    This move is the latest in a series of similar actions byleading U.S. money center banks, including Citibank NA andChase Manhattan Bank NA, over the last 24 hours.    AmeriTrust Corp of Ohio also raised its prime lending rateto 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2, effective tomorrow.      Reuter
BOATMEN'S NATIONAL BANK <BOAT> RAISES PRIME Boatmen's Bancshares said itsBoatmen's National Bank raised the prime rate to 7-3/4 pct from7-1/2 pct, effective immediately. Reuter
FIRST WISCONSIN NAT'L BANK<FWB> HIKES PRIME RATE First Wisconsin National Bank said ithas raised its prime rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct,effective today. Reuter
NEW VENEZUELA DEBT INTEREST RATE GOES INTO EFFECT The new interest rate of 7/8 pct overLibor on Venezuelan public sector debt payments goes intoeffect today, Finance Minister Manuel Azpurua said .    Azpurua told reporters yesterday the reduction from theprevious margin of 1-1/8 pct above Libor will save the countrysome 50 mln dollars in debt servicing.    The new rate is among changes agreed last month to the 20.3billion dlr public sector debt rescheduling. Under the newagreement, Venezula was also able to extend the term from 12 to14 years and to lower debt payments in the 1987-89 period by 64pct.    Azpurua said that according to the agreement, the newinterest rate will be retroactive to April 1, provided theaccord is approved before October 1.    He told reporters the term sheet detailing the changes inthe rescheduling has already been endorsed by the 13-memberdebt steering committee and is now being sent to the country's460 creditor banks for their approval.    The new agreement replaces a rescheduling accord signed inFebruary 1986, which Venezuela asked to revise to reflect a 45pct drop in oil revenues. REUTER
FIRST BANK SYSTEMS <FBS> UNITS HIKE RATE First Bank Minneaplois and FirstBank Saint Paul, both units of First Bank Systems Inc, saidthey raised their reference rates to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct. Reuter
MORE U.S. BANKS JOIN IN PRIME RATE CUT Chemical Bank, the main bank subsidiaryof Chemical New York Corp, and Marine Midland Banks Inc saidthey were raising the prime lending rate to 7-3/4 pct from7-1/2 pct, effective immediately.    In St Louis, Mercantile Bancorp said its Mercantile BankN.A. was also raising its prime rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2pct, effective immediately.    The changes follow similar cuts yesterday by Citicorp andChase Manhattan. Reuter
FED BUYS 550 MLN DLRS OF BILLS FOR CUSTOMER The Federal Reserve bought about 550mln dlrs of U.S. Treasury bills for a customer, a spokeswomansaid.    She said the Fed bought bills maturing from May throughSeptember 24 for regular delivery tomorrow.    Federal funds were trading at 6-3/16 pct when the Fedannounced the operation. Reuter
CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK LOWERING VISA RATES <Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce>said it was lowering the interest rate on its Visa credit cardto 15.9 pct from 18.6 pct, effective with the May billingstatement.    The bank said it was also halving its yearly Visa card userfee to six dlrs, but would retain its 15 ct fee for eachtransaction.    A bank spokesman said the previously reported call by theCanadian Parliament's finance committee on March 20 for asubstantial cut in credit card rates "was a factor" in themove, but he would not elaborate.    Canada's minister of state for finance Thomas Hockin hadthreatened legislation to reduce the rates, which apply tounpaid balances, if the financial institutions did notvoluntarily act.    The Canadian Imperial Bank spokesman said "the bank cardmarket is a very competitive one and we have to move to staycompetitive."    Canadian Imperial's new rates match those of <TorontoDominion Bank>, which lowered its rates before the financecommittee report.    Canadian Imperial Bank added that cardholders will beallowed to choose between the 15 ct transaction fee or the sixdlr yearly card fee.    It will also eliminate the 50 ct minimum monthlytransaction fee, it said.    Minister of State for Finance, Tom Hockin, said in theHouse of Commons today he was "delighted" with the bank's cutin its credit card rate.    "I would hope retail stores and other financialinstitutions will look to their rates as well," Hockin saidduring the daily question period. Reuter
BANK OF NEW YORK <BK> RAISES PRIME TO 7-3/4 PCT Bank of New York said it raised itsprime lending rate a quarter point to 7-3/4 pct.    It said the move is effective immediately. Reuter
MELLON <MEL>, REPUBLIC <RPT> LIFT PRIME RATES Mellon Bank NA of Pittsburgh andRepublic Bank of Dallas have both raised their prime lendingrates to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2, effective immediately. Reuter
ROYAL/BANK CANADA UPS U.S. BASE RATE 1/4 PCT TO 8 The Democratic-controlled HouseBudget Committee neared approval, over Republican objections,of a trillion dlr budget plan for 1988.    Committee Chairman William Gray said he wanted approvallater today of the Democratic-written document, which wouldproduce a deficit of about 133 billion dlrs using CongressionalBudget Office estimates.    However, Gray said using President Reagan's economicassumptions, the plan would show a deficit of 108 billion dlrsto meet the Gramm-Rudman budget law target. Republicansprotested they had not seen the plan until today. Reuter
ROYAL BANK/CANADA UPS U.S. BASE RATE <Royal Bank of Canada> said it israising its U.S. base lending rate by 1/4 pct to 8-1/4 pct,effective tomorrow.    The move is the first change in the bank's U.S. dollar baselending rate since last August, when it lowered the rate 1/2point.    It follows the announcement yesterday of a 1/4 point riseto 7-3/4 pct of two of the largest U.S. banks' prime rates. Reuter
HARRIS BANK INCREASES ITS PRIME RATE <The Harris Trust and Savings Bank> saidit has increased its prime rate to 7-3/4 from 7-1/2 effectiveimmediately. Reuter
TCF BANKING AND SAVINGS HIKES PRIME RATE TCF Banking and Savings FA said itis raising its prime rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct effectivetoday. Reuter
CCC INTEREST RATE FOR APRIL IS SIX PCT -- USDA The Commodity Credit Corporation(CCC) interest rate on loans disbursed in April will carry asix pct ionterest rate, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.    The April rate is up from March's 5-7/8 pct and reflectsthe interest rate charged CCC by the U.S. Treasury, thedepartment said. Reuter
SECURITY PACIFIC, PROVIDENT NATIONAL LIFT PRIME Security Pacific National Bank andProvident National Bank said they increased their prime lendingrates a quarter point to 7-3/4 pct.    They said the move is effective immediately. Reuter
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF BOSTON <BKB> RAISES PRIME The First National Bank of Boston, themain banking unit of Bank of Boston, said it is raising itsprime lending rate to 7.75 pct from 7.50 pct, effectiveimmediately. Reuter
MAJOR U.S. BANKS MOVE TO HIGHER 7-3/4 PCT PRIME Most major U.S. banks today matchedTuesday's quarter-point prime rate cuts by Citibank and ChaseManhattan Bank, the first prime rate boosts since mid-1984.    Most cited narrower spreads between the prime and fundingcosts as justification. Analysts said the prime rate rises mayhave been triggered partly by a desire by banks to enhanceprofit margins given problems with developing country loans.     Commenting on the prime rate increases, U.S. TreasurySecretary James Baker told a House Appropriations Committeethat "I hope it was a temporary blip upward."    Among the major banks which today announced prime rateincreases to 7-3/4 pct were Bankers Trust, Chemical Bank,Continental Illinois National Bank, Harris Trust and SavingsBank, Irving Trust, Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co, MarineMidland, and Security Pacific National Bank.    Other banking companies announcing prime rate risesincluded Pittsburgh National Bank, Texas Commerce Bank-Houston,Provident National Bank, First National Bank of Boston, FloridaFederal Savings and Loan Association, and SunTrust Banks. Reuter
UNION BANK RAISES ITS PRIME RATE TO 7.5 PCT The Union Bank subsidiary ofStandard Chartered PLC said today it was raising its primelending rate to 7.75 pct from 7.50 pct, effective immediately. Reuter
FURTHER DECLINES IN U.S. DEBT FUTURES POSSIBLE After an already steep fall in the pastweek, U.S. interest rate futures may be in for further declinesin the near term, financial analysts said.    However, some analysts said recent sharp losses in bondfutures have left the bond market somewhat oversold, and thecontracts on long-term debt could stage a recovery beforeresuming their decline.    Key to the near-term direction of futures will be thecourse of the dollar, they said.    "As the dollar goes, so goes the bond market," said DeanWitter analyst Karen Gibbs.    The recent decline in the dollar, which hit a 40-year lowagainst the Japanese yen Monday, was reversed Wednesday whenseveral large U.S. money center banks unexpectedly raised theirprime lending rates by a quarter point, to 7-3/4 pct.    "Even though the prime rate cut was good for the dollar,foreign exchange traders are not convinced the dollar declineis over," Gibbs said.    The dollar decline was key in recent weakness in debtfutures as it rekindled concern about a pickup in inflation.    Indeed, the falling dollar may have been a key topic at themeeting of the Federal Reserve's policy making arm, the FederalOpen Market Committee, this week, analysts said.    "To the Fed, the combination of a falling dollar, asteepening yield curve, and rising commodity prices looksuspiciously like the traces of expectations of acceleratinginflation," said Denis Karnosky, analyst at Carroll, McEnteeand McGinley Inc.    Such expectations could mean that "a shift in policy towardrestriction of bank reserves is likely to get very seriousconsideration," at the FOMC meeting, he said.    Any such restriction of reserves will not be a highlyvisible form of monetary tightening, Karnosky said.    Rather, the key to detecting a change will be found inseasonal and adjustment borrowing at the discount window, hesaid. Borrowings have held near a weekly average of 300 mlndlrs over the past several months, he said.    In the meantime, however, "the market looks a bitoversold," said Jim Wysoglad, analyst at Golden Gate Futures.    Wysoglad said a recovery from the oversold condition coulddrive June bonds to a high near 99 before falling back to testchart support near the recent low of 97-13/32.    Technician Leslie Keefe of Technical Data Corp of Bostonsaid that the key test for June bonds will be whether thenearby contract holds above chart support at 96-24/32.    "All previous selloffs since mid-November have stopped andbuyers have surfaced at that level," Keefe said.    If that level is broken, and the dollar continues todecline, Keefe said she expects the June bond contract todecline to test support between 92 and 93, the primary uptrendline dating back to 1984. Reuter
WORLD RECESSION UNLIKELY - DEUTSCHE'S HERRHAUSEN A world recession is unlikely thisyear as fiscal and monetary policy in most industrializedcountries is supporting the economy, Deutsche Bank AG <DBKG.F>management board joint spokesman Alfred Herrhausen said.    But growth rates will be smaller than last year, with 1.5to 2.5 pct likely in most industrialized countries, he told anews conference.    Herrhausen said he was confident private consumption wouldsupport economic growth in West Germany this year, with netincome increases turning into purchasing power as long asinflation did not revive.    Herrhausen said he did not expect interest rates to rise inWest Germany this year, but there was little room for furtherfalls. Rates in the U.S. were however rising, as evidenced bythe latest prime rate moves, but this rise would be moderate.    Herrhausen said he did not expect any major narrowing ofthe U.S. Trade and budget deficits in the next few months.    One success of the Paris agreement in February to fostercurrency stability was that U.S. Officials have stopped talkingdown the dollar, he noted.    The recent stability would last until markets decided totest the resolve of central banks, he said.    He noted that central banks had spent some 10 billion dlrsthis week to stabilize the dollar against the yen in the firstsuch test.    "A massive attack on the mark, which could come if we getbad news out of the U.S., Would require a much higherintervention amount, raising the danger of inflation," he said.    Turning to the international debt problem, Herrhausen saidBrazil's unilateral debt moratorium had surprised banks.    But the move showed that a real solution to debt problemswas only possible with the involvement of all parties. Reuter
WESTPAC IN N.Z. RAISES INDICATOR LENDING RATE Westpac Banking Corp in New Zealandsaid it will increase its indicator lending rate by 1.5percentage points to 22.5 pct from April 7.    Westpac said in a statement the increase reflects highcosts of funding.    The bank said nervousness in the wholesale deposit marketis creating uncertainty about the immediate outlook forinterest rates. Liquidity is expected to remain tight over thenext month and this will put upward pressure on interest rates.Base lending indicator rates of the other three trading banksrange between 21.0 pct and 21.5 pct. REUTER
U.K. MONEY RATES HARDEN ON LAWSON CURRENCY TARGETS Money market rates rates showed a harderedge after news U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawsonhas set a target for the pound against the mark and dollar, tobe maintained by a mixture of interest rates and interventionin the foreign exchange markets.    Dealers said the market was surprised by the Chancellor'sdisclosure of sterling target rates, around 2.90 marks and 1.60dlrs, and nervous over the implications for domestic interestrates, further reducing the propects for a near term cut inU.K. Bank base rates. The key three months interbank sterlingrate gained 1/16 point at 10 9-7/8 pct.    The pound opened three basis points lower at 71.3 in tradeweighted terms, at around 1.59 dlrs and 2.91 marks. REUTER
BANK OF FRANCE TO BUY FIRST CATEGORY PAPER TODAY The Bank of France is to inject liquidityagainst first category paper at a tender this afternoon, a Bankspokesman said.    Money market sources were divided as to whether theythought the Bank of France would use the occasion to cut itsintervention rate, which has stood at 7 3/4 pct since it wascut from eight pct on March 9.    Some thought a rate cut unlikely given foreign exchangeturbulence and the U.S. Prime rate rise to 7 3/4 pct, whileothers still counted on a 1/4 point cut by the Bank of France. REUTER
U.K. MONEY RATES FIRM ON LAWSON STERLING TARGETS Interest rates on the London money marketwere slightly firmer on news U.K. Chancellor of the ExchequerNigel Lawson had stated target rates for sterling against thedollar and mark, dealers said.    They said this had come as a surprise and expected thetargets, 2.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs, to be promptly tested in theforeign exchange markets. Sterling opened 0.3 points lower intrade weighted terms at 71.3.    Dealers noted the chancellor said he would achieve hisgoals on sterling by a combination of intervention in currencymarkets and interest rates.    Operators feel the foreign exchanges are likely to teststerling on the downside and that this seems to make a fall inU.K. Base lending rates even less likely in the near term,dealers said.    The feeling remains in the market, however, thatfundamental factors have not really changed and that a rise inU.K. Interest rates is not very likely. The market is expectedto continue at around these levels, reflecting the current 10pct base rate level, for some time.    The key three months interbank rate was 1/16 point firmerat 10 9-7/8 pct.
LAWSON REMARKS DASH HOPES OF EARLY U.K. RATE CUT Chancellor of the Exchequer NigelLawson's remarks yesterday suggesting there are preciseexchange rate targets for the pound undermined sterling,dashing hopes for an early cut in U.K. Base rates, analystssaid.    But the market's reaction, testing exchange rate levelsindicated by Lawson, was probably overdone and the longer termoutlook for sterling remained bullish, they agreed.    In an apparent break with the previous policy of secrecy,Lawson told a National Economic Development Council meeting hewas comfortable with sterling exchange rates around currentlevels, specifying rates of around 1.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs.    Lawson added the U.K. Government intended to keep sterlingat about present levels, using currency intervention andinterest rates to achieve this.    The February 22 Paris agreement of the Group of Five andCanada to stabilise exchange rates is widely believed toinclude target ranges, but all participants to the meeting hadso far refused to specify these.    Markets were quick to react to the statement, choppingabout one U.S. Cent and over one pfennig off the pound to matchthe levels mentioned by Lawson.    But most analysts polled said they did not believe Lawson'sstatement signalled a change in U.K. Policy.    Keith Skeoch, chief economist at stockbrokers James Capeland Co, said, "the remarks have been blown out of proportion.Lawson is paying now for a little bit of a slip of the tongue."    Barclays de Zoete Wedd economist Mark Brett said, "there isnothing great and fantastic in the Chancellor's statement."    He said he did not believe the rates indicated by theChancellor were precise targets, but merely represented centralrates around which sterling would be allowed to fluctuate,perhaps by as much as 10 pct.    "It would be insane to pinpoint an exchange rate ahead of anelection ... I don't believe Lawson is mad enough to tiehimself to a fixed rate," Brett said.    Currency markets were keen for official statements toclarify the scope of the Paris accord and reactivate currencytrading. This mood easily led to over-reaction, analysts said.    "Making similar statements when the market is high strungand ready to bounce is perhaps a mistake," one senior dealerwith a U.S. Bank said.    Capel's Skeoch said, "it gives the foreign exchange marketssomething to shoot at."    "It is obvious that the government, as a member of the Groupof Six, has agreed exchange rate bands. But they are not cut instone, they can change with time," Skeoch said.    Brett said, "we think the 2.90 marks level is a centralrate. Give or take 10 pfennigs and all is fine."    Not all analysts played down the significance of theremarks, however. Chris Dunn, economist at Royal Bank ofCanada, said the remarks may signal a decisive move to insulatesterling from the fortunes of the dollar.    Although about two-thirds of Britain's trade is conductedwith European countries, sterling has traditionally shadowedthe dollar rather than the mark, analysts noted.    "Britain must decide whether it wants to follow the U.S. Orthrow in its lot with Europe," Dunn said.    "It suggests that while the U.K. Is not actually applying tojoin the European Monetary System, it is seeking protection byshadowing it ... The Bundesbank has made it clear that it wantsthe U.K. To clarify its position relative to the mark," he said.    Analysts said sterling's dip on currency markets followingLawson's remarks made an early half-point cut in U.K. Baserates from current 10 pct levels unlikely in the short term.    "Over the next three weeks, a cut is out, unless we get someextremely good economic indicators," Capel's Skeoch said.    Base rates have been cut twice by one-half point in March,the last after the March 17 budget presentation, and analystshad been expecting another half point cut shortly afterwards. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 345 MLN STG ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it had providedthe money market with 345 mln stg help in the morning session.This compares with its forecast of a shortage of around 800 mlnstg in the system today.    The central bank made outright purchases of bank billscomprising 58 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 227 mln stg inband two at 9-13/16 pct, 56 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pctand four mln stg in band four at 9-11/16 pct.    Dealers noted that this was the first time bills in bandfour, which have a maturity of between two and three months,have been dealt in the market since mid-February. REUTER
 Bundesbank leaves credit policies u The Bundesbank left credit policiesunchanged after today's regular meeting of its council, aspokesman said in answer to enquiries.    The West German discount rate remains at 3.0 pct, and theLombard emergency financing rate at 5.0 pct. REUTER
WESTPAC IN N.Z. RAISES INDICATOR LENDING RATE Westpac Banking Corp in New Zealandsaid it will increase its indicator lending rate by 1.5percentage points to 22.5 pct from April 7.    Westpac said in a statement the increase reflects highcosts of funding.    The bank said nervousness in the wholesale deposit marketis creating uncertainty about the immediate outlook forinterest rates. Liquidity is expected to remain tight over thenext month and this will put upward pressure on interest rates.Base lending indicator rates of the other three trading banksrange between 21.0 pct and 21.5 pct. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES JUST AFTER TOKYO OPENING The Bank of Japan intervened just afterthe Tokyo market opened, buying dollars at around 147.65 yen,dealers said.    They were unsure of the amount of the central bank'spurchasing, but it seemed to prevent the dollar from weakeningagainst the yen amid bearish sentiment for the U.S. Currency,they said.    The dollar opened at 147.65 yen against 147.20/30 in NewYork and 146.90 at the close here yesterday. REUTER
BUNDESBANK LEAVES CREDIT POLICIES UNCHANGED The Bundesbank left credit policiesunchanged after today's regular meeting of its council, aspokesman said in answer to enquiries.    The West German discount rate remains at 3.0 pct, and theLombard emergency financing rate at 5.0 pct. REUTER
BANKAMERICA <BACP> RAISES PRIME RATE TO 7.75 PCT BankAmerica Corp, following movesby other major banks, said it has raised its prime rate to 7.75pct from 7.50 pct, effective today. Reuter
 BANK OF FRANCE LEAVES INTERVENTION RATE UNCHANGED AT 7-3/4 PCT -  International Business Machines Corpsaid it introduced four new personal computers, including a topof the line unit based on the powerful Intel Corp <INTC> 80386chip.    The company said the new PC's are compatible with mostexisting IBM PC applications.              The new computers, which mark the first major overhaul ofthe IBM PC line since the company entered the business in 1981,include a PC based on the Intel Corp <INTC> 80386microprocessor, making it the most powerful IBM PC to date.    Also included is an Intel 8086 based system which IBM saidis up to two and a half times as fast as its IBM PC XT model.    IBM also introduced two new versions of its PC AT system.These use an Intel 80286 chip running at 50 pct faster than theexisting IBM PC AT.    The new line of PC's, which IBM calls the PersonalSystem/2, uses 3.5 inch diskettes instead of the conventional5.25 inch diskettes.    The company said the smaller diskettes store from two tofour times more data than larger diskette, which typicallyhandle 360 kilobytes of data.    IBM said the new PC AT's and the 80386-based PC use a newIBM-designed 32-bit data bus. This carries data internallywithin the PC.    The company said the new bus offers processing power up totwo to three-and-a-half times the existing IBM PC AT.    IBM said the new PC's can run a new operating system,called IBM DOS Version 3.3, which is now available.    The company also said it will offer a second operatingsystem, called IBM Operating System/2, developed jointly withMicrosoft Corp <MSFT>. This will be available in stages,beginning in the first quarter of 1988.    IBM said Operating System/2 will for the first time giveIBM PC users the ability to access multiple applications andvery large programs and amounts of data.    IBM said said its Personal System/2 Model 30, which is anIntel 8-megahertz (MHz) 8086-based system, is now available ata list price of 1,695 dlrs each with two diskette drives andfor 2,295 dlrs with one diskette and one 20-megabyte fixed diskdrive. The unit weighs 17 pounds.    It said an 8087 math coprocessor that runs at the sameeight MHz rate as the 8086 is available.    The company said the Personal System/2 Model 50, an Intel10 MHz 80286-based desktop system, is now available at a costof 3,595 dlrs.    IBM said said its Personal System/2 Model 60, which is alsoan Intel 10 MHz 80286-based system, is a floor-standing systemavailable in two configurations. This system, which isscheduled for availability in the second quarter, lists at5,295 dlrs with a 44MB fixed disk drive and 6,295 dlrs on the70MB fixed disk drive.    The company said the Personal System/2 80 is the mostpowerful member of the new family of PC's, using an Intel80386-based mocroprocessor. The floor-standing machine will beavailable in three configurations.    IBM said one Model 80 configuration, scheduled for Julyavailability at a cost of 6,995 dlrs, runs at 16 MHz, contains1MB of memory and features a 44MB fixed disk drive.    A second configuration, also scheduled for July at 8,495dlrs each, runs at 16 MHz and has 2MB of memory and a 70MBfixed disk drive.    The company said the third Model 80 is scheduled for thefourth quarter and features IBM-designed one-megabit memorytechnology. Expected to cost 10,995 dlrs, it runs at 20 MHz andfeatures 2MB of memory and a 115 MB fixed disk drive.       IBM said its Personal System/2 incorporates enhancedintegrated graphics functions including significantly improvedtext, expanded colors up to 256 out of a palette of more than256,000, and sharper business graphics.    The company said the Models 50, 60 and 80 Video GraphicsArray supports 640 x 480 x 16 colors in graphics mode and 720 x400 x 16 colors in text mode. It will also support the new 320x 200 x 256 color mode.    With the addition of the new advanced graphics feature, IBMsaid, 1024 x 768 addressability also can be obtained. Reuter
BANK OF FRANCE LEAVES INTERVENTION RATE UNCHANGED The Bank of France said it left itsintervention rate unchanged at 7-3/4 pct when it injected fundsto the market against first category paper in todays moneymarket intervention tender.    Money market dealers had earlier expressed mixed views on apossible quarter point cut.    The rate was last adjusted on March 9, when it was reducedto 7-3/4 pct from the eight pct rate set in January. REUTER
COMERICA <CMCA> RAISES PRIME RATE Comerica Inc said it raised its primeinterest rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective April 1. Reuter
NEW DUTCH SPECIAL ADVANCES UNCHANGED AT 5.3 PCT The Dutch central bank announced new12-day special advances at an unchanged rate of 5.3 pct tocover money market tightness for the period April 3 to 15.     The amount will be set at tender on April 3 between 0700and 0730 hours GMT.    The new facility replaces the current 4.2 billion guildersof nine-day advances which expire tomorrow.    Money market dealers said the rate for the new advances wasin line with expectations. They added they expect the Bank toallocate between 4.0 and 4.5 billion guilders. REUTER
NORTH CAROLINA FEDERAL <NCFS> RAISES PRIME RATE North Carolina Federal Savingsand Loan Association said it has raised its prime rate to 7-3/4pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective yesterday, following moves bymajor banks. Reuter
ROYAL BANK CANADA LOWERS CREDIT CARD RATE <Royal Bank of Canada> said it wouldlower its Visa credit card interest rate to 15.9 pct from 18.6pct, effective with the May billing statement.    The bank said it would retain the credit card user fee of12 dlrs yearly or 15 cts a transaction.    Its move came one day after <Canadian Imperial Bank ofCommerce> lowered its credit card interest rate to the samelevel. The Canadian government last month threatened tolegislate lower credit card rates if financial institutions didnot voluntarily do so. <Toronto Dominion Bank> lowered its rateto 15.9 pct before the government warning. Reuter
MICHIGAN NATIONAL <MNCO> RAISES PRIME Michigan National Corpsaid it raised the prime rate for its subsidiary MichiganNational Bank to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective yesterday.    The move follows similar increases earlier in the week byother banks. Reuter
EYSKENS SAYS US PRIME RISES WILL AID CURRENCIES Belgian Finance Minister Mark Eyskenswarmly welcomed this week's increase in U.S. Prime rates,calling it a move that went beyond the Group of Five and CanadaParis accord on stabilising currencies.    The rate rise would underpin economic and financial policyconvergence among major countries, he added.    In an interview with Reuters, Eyskens also made clear hebelieved the countries involved in the accord - the U.S.,Japan, West Germany, France, Britain and Canada - had agreed"tentative" fluctuation ranges for exchange rates.    Eyskens was speaking before hosting an informal meeting ofEuropean Community finance ministers and central bank chiefs inBelgium this weekend focusing on the international monetarysituation and proposals for strengthening the European MonetarySystem (EMS).    Asked about the dollar's recent fall on currency markets,Eyskens said he believed the Paris agreement was proving "moreor less workable" despite what he called evident disagreementsover U.S. Economic and monetary policy between TreasurySecretary James Baker and Federal Reserve Chairman PaulVolcker.    Besides Baker's public statements that had dramaticallyinfluenced exchange markets, trade tensions between the U.S.AndJapan had also caused the dollar's fall, expecially against theyen, he said.    But he expressed optimism that Washington and Tokyo couldreach a compromise in their row over semi-conductor trade. "Ithink agreement is quite possible," he said.     Eyskens said he was "very agreeably surprised" by thisweek's quarter-point increase in U.S. Prime rates despite theobvious negative consequences for debtor countries.    "It is a positive element which goes further than the(Paris) Louvre agreement ...It is the market taking account ofits content," he said.    He added that coordination of interest rates was afundamental element of economic and monetary convergencebetween leading industrialised economies.    "A policy of maintaining exchange rates within fluctuationranges is not possible if it is not accompanied at least by amore coordinated policy of interest rates," he said.    Eyskens made clear he believed the G-6 countries had agreedin Paris on ranges in which to hold their currencies.    He said the end of the February 22 Louvre accord, in whichthe partners agreed to cooperate closely to foster exchangerate stability around current levels, clearly alluded to a"system of tentative (fluctuation) margins."    He added the meeting and the statement would have beenmeaningless if the G-6 had not discussed the technicalities ofimplementing it.    Eyskens said there was growing economic convergence amongleading industrialised countries pointing towards greater orderin the international monetary system.    "That doesn't mean we are ready to restore Bretton Woods(the post-World War Two system of fixed exchange rates), butwithin the (International Monetary Fund) Interim Committee weare thinking in terms of target zones, fluctuation ranges to beimplemented and defended," he said.    The Interim Committee meets next week in Washington aheadof the IMF's Spring meetings, and Eyskens said the EC ministerswould prepare for the gatherings at this weekend's talks.    He said he hoped for wide-ranging talks on the future ofthe EMS at the weekend meeting, based on proposals from theEC's Monetary Committee and Committee of Central Bank Governorsfor strengthening the system through technical andinstitutional changes.    Eyskens said he expected EC Commission President JacquesDelors to submit proposals for fully liberalising capitalmovements within the 12-nation bloc and made clear he sharedDelors' view that this must be accompanied by a reinforcementof the EMS. "Both are totally linked. Liberalisation withoutstrengthening the EMS would destabilise the Community," he said. REUTER
BELGIUM SAYS U.S PRIME RISES WILL AID CURRENCIES Belgian Finance Minister Mark Eyskenswarmly welcomed this week's increase in U.S. Prime rates,calling it a move that went beyond the Group of Five and CanadaParis accord on stabilising currencies.    The rate rise would underpin economic and financial policyconvergence among major countries, he added.    In an interview with Reuters, Eyskens also made clear hebelieved the countries involved in the accord -- the U.S.,Japan, West Germany, France, Britain and Canada -- had agreed"tentative" fluctuation ranges for exchange rates.    Eyskens was speaking before hosting an informal meeting ofEuropean Community finance ministers and central bank chiefs inBelgium this weekend focusing on the international monetarysituation and proposals for strengthening the European MonetarySystem (EMS).    Asked about the dollar's recent fall on currency markets,Eyskens said he believed the Paris agreement was proving "moreor less workable" despite what he called evident disagreementsover U.S. Economic and monetary policy between TreasurySecretary James Baker and Federal Reserve Chairman PaulVolcker.    Besides Baker's public statements that had dramaticallyinfluenced exchange markets, trade tensions between the U.S.AndJapan had also caused the dollar's fall, expecially against theyen, he said.    But he expressed optimism that Washington and Tokyo couldreach a compromise in their row over semi-conductor trade. "Ithink agreement is quite possible," he said.     Eyskens said he was "very agreeably surprised" by thisweek's quarter-point increase in U.S. Prime rates despite theobvious negative consequences for debtor countries.    "It is a positive element which goes further than the(Paris) Louvre agreement ...It is the market taking account ofits content," he said.    He added that coordination of interest rates was afundamental element of economic and monetary convergencebetween leading industrialised economies.    "A policy of maintaining exchange rates within fluctuationranges is not possible if it is not accompanied at least by amore coordinated policy of interest rates," he said. Reuter
FIRST INTERSTATE <I> RAISES PRIME RATE The First Interstate Bank ofCalifornia subsidiary of First Interstate Bancorp said it israising its prime lending rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct,effective immediately. Reuter
MERIDIAN BANCORP <MRDN> RAISES PRIME RATE Meridian Bancorp Inc said it hasraised its prime rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effectiveimmediately. Reuter
BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA RAISES U.S. DLR BASE RATE <Bank of Nova Scotia> said it raised itsU.S. dlr base lending rate in Canada to 8-1/4 pct from eightpct, effective immediately. Reuter
LITTLE SCOPE FOR U.S. RATE RISE - FANNIE MAE<FNM> There is little scope for a substantialincrease in U.S. interest rates during 1987, said FederalNational Mortgage Association chairman David Maxwell.    Speaking to the New York Financial Writers' Association,Maxwell said he viewed this week's rise in U.S. banks' prime rates to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct as a temporary phenomenon.    "I don't see a substantial rise in rates this year. Ifanything, the Federal Reserve is more likely to ease than totighten (monetary policy) because so many sectors of theeconomy are showing weakness," Maxwell said. Fannie Mae buysmortgages from lenders and issues mortgage-backed securities.    Maxwell said restructuring of Fannie Mae over the last twoyears had limited its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Aone pct rise in rates in 1987 would cost shareholders about 18cts a share versus one dlr a share in 1981, he said.    Maxwell also questioned the view that housing crowds outother sectors of the economy from obtaining needed capital.    "There's no evidence that housing is crowding firms out ofthe long-term debt market," he said. Both home mortgage debtand long-term corporate debt grew at about equal annual ratesof about 13 pct in 1986 -- a year when mortgage originations of442 billion dlrs needed record housing capital, he said. Reuter
ANZ BANK TO CUT AUSTRALIAN PRIME RATE TO 18 PCT Australia and New Zealand BankingGroup Ltd <ANZA.S> said it will lower its Australian primelending rate to 18 pct from 18.25, effective April 6.    The cut is the second announced by the bank in the lastweek, following a cut from 18.5 pct effective last Monday.    The ANZ's new rate will be the lowest prime set by the fourmajor trading banks and matches the rate set by one of thesmaller foreign banks in January and left unchanged during therise in primes over the last three months.    Other primes range from 18.25 to 18.5 pct, including thoseof the other three majors. REUTER
ANZ BANK IN N.Z. RAISES INDICATOR LENDING RATE The Australia and New Zealand BankingGroup Ltd in New Zealand said it will raise its indicatorlending rate to 23 pct from 21.5 pct on April 7.    A bank statement said the continuing rise in the cost offunds had to be passed on to the lending customers.    ANZ managing director Brian Weeks said: "Recent developmentsin the money markets are of deep concern to all participants... Market participants are understandably nervous and cautiousabout future developments.    These include flows to and from the government relating tothe privatisation of seven government departments on April 1.    "We welcome the flexibility evident in the Reserve Bank'smove to raise the system cash target yesterday, but feel thatto reduce the present nervousness the cash target and primaryliquidity level need to be raised further...," he said.    The Reserve Bank has raised its daily cash target to 45 mlnN.Z. Dlrs from its normal 30 mln dlrs.    Call rates have traded as high as 65 pct this week becauseof business year-end March 31 balance date book squaring.    Westpac Banking Corp in New Zealand announced yesterday itwould increase its indicator lending rate by 1.5 percentagepoints to 22.5 pct on April 7. REUTER
NEW DUTCH ADVANCES TOTAL 4.1 BILLION GUILDERS The Duth Central bank said it acceptedbids totalling 4.086 billion guilders at tender for the newtwelve-day special advances at an unchanged 5.3 pct.    Bids up to 30 mln guilders were met in full, amounts aboveat 40 pct.    The new advances, covering the period April 3 to 15,replace the current 4.2 billion guilder nine-day facility at5.3 pct, which expires today.    Money market dealers said the total amount allocated was inline with expectations and would be sufficient to cover themoney market shortage for the duration of the facility. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 700 MLN STG The Bank of England said it has forecasta shortage of around 700 mln stg in the system today.    Among the main factors, maturing assistance and take-up oftreasury bills will drain 546 mln stg, bills for repurchase bythe market 76 mln, a rise in note circulation 310 mln andbankers balances below target 105 mln.    The outflow will be partly offset by 340 mln stg exchequertransactions. REUTER
BELGIUM CUTS TREASURY CERTIFICATE RATES The Belgian National Bank cut interestrates on one, two and three-month treasury certificates to 7.30pct from 7.40 pct effective immediately, the bank said in atelex message.    The Bank last adjusted its short-term treasury certificaterates on March 23, when it also reduced rates for all threeperiods by 0.10 points.    A National Bank spokesman said the latest adjustment wouldbring the rates closer in line with currently prevailinginterbank interest rates.    The spokesman said it was too early to predict whether themove would herald a reduction in discount rate, which currentlystands at eight pct, when the Bank holds its regular weeklymeeting at which the rate is discussed next Wednesday.    The discount rate generally moves in tandem with thethree-month treasury certificate rate. However, there is noformal link and the discount rate was not adjusted followingthe March 23 changes. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET RECEIVES 170 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it has operatedin the money market this morning, purchasing 170 mln stg bankbills. This compares with the Bank's revised estimate of a 750mln stg shortfall. In band two the Bank bought 72 mln stg at9-13/16 pct, in band three 52 mln at 9-3/4 pct and in band four46 mln at 9-11/16 pct. REUTER
TOP DISCOUNT RATE AT UK BILL TENDER RISES TO 9. The departure of James Baker'sclosest aide, Deputy Treasury Secretary Richard Darman, willnot change the course of Washington's domestic andinternational economic policies, U.S. officials said.    Darman, who has worked alongside Baker for six years, waswidely credited with helping him mastermind initiatives oncurrency management and international economic cooperation.    U.S. Officials said Darman also played a key role inshepherding President Reagan's sweeping tax reform plan throughthe U.S. Congress.    But they flatly dismissed suggestions that his departure,to the investment banking firm of Shearson Lehman Brothers,signaled the Baker team was breaking up, or that the TreasurySecretary himself might leave soon.    "It really does not mean that, he took the opportunity as itcame up," one official said.    Another commented, "Baker will miss him, but he's not goingto stand in his way."    There has been widespread speculation since last autumnthat Darman sought a Wall Street job.    Officials said Darman felt the passage of tax reform latelast year marked an appropriate moment to bow out.    Baker acknowledged Darman would be sorely missed.    "Dick Darman has contributed mightily to the success of thisadministration over the past six years and his departurerepresents a substantial loss," he said.    U.S. Officials admitted Darman's absence would be anundoubted blow to Baker, who has relied on him for policyadvice, both at the White House and, in Reagan's second term,at the Treasury. One aide once described Darman as"indispensable" to Baker.    Baker is widely thought to want a more stable currencysystem and Darman is generally credited by officials of othernations as Baker's leading theorist on this issue, favouringtarget zones to limit currency fluctuations.    Earlier this year, monetary sources said the U.S. Treasuryunsuccessfully sounded out allies on a target zone system.    But a U.S. Official disputed the assessment that, withDarman gone, Baker would abandon international initiatives.    Baker's work as head of Reagan's Economic Policy Council,spearheading trade policy, and his skills in negotiating withthe Democrat-controlled Congress will go on as before.    Darman's strength was not as an economist, but as apolitical strategist "and that's Baker's strength too," theofficial said.    There were already indications that Baker, who throughouthis time in government has relied on a closely-knit circle ofadvisers, has moved swiftly to find a successor.    One possibility is that Baker might turn to George Gould,who holds the number three Treasury position ofUnder-Secretary.    Gould, another close confidante, has known Baker for years.    Before joining the Treasury in November 1985, Gould was apartner at the Wall Steet firm of Wertheim and Co and formerlyheaded Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette Securities Corp.    The Darman announcement came on the eve of the semi-annualmeetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank,where many policies Darman helped shape will be debated.    He helped Baker devise the September, 1985 Plaza Agreement,when the United States, Japan, West Germany, France and Britaincurbed the dollar's strength. The pact was a major turningpoint in U.S. Policy, ending a period of disdain for economiccooperation and intervention in currency markets.    Darman also worked on some other Baker initiatives, likethe Tokyo Summit agreement to intensify coordination ofeconomic policies among the leading industrial countries andthe recent Paris Agreement to stabilise currencies andstimulate global growth.    These policies are collectively aimed at redressing thehuge gap between Japan and West Germany's trade surpluses andthe United State's massive trade deficit.    That policy goal still remains a prime objective of theReagan Administration and will not change with Darman'sdeparture. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FURTHER REVISED UPWARD The Bank of England said it has revisedits estimate of today's shortfall to 800 mln stg from 750 mln,before taking account of 170 mln stg morning assistance. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GETS 347 MLN STG AFTERNOON HELP The Bank of England said it has operatedin the money market this afternoon, buying back bills totalling347 mln stg. This brings the total help so far today to 517 mlnstg and compares with the Bank's revised estimate of an 800 mlnstg shortfall.    The central bank purchased in band one 20 mln stg at 9-7/8pct, in band two 254 mln at 9-13/16 pct, in band three 66 mlnat 9-3/4 pct and in band four seven mln stg at 9-11/16 pct. REUTER
AVERAGE DISCOUNT RATE AT UK BILL TENDER 9.5195 PCT The average rate of discount at today'sU.K. Treasury bill tender rose to 9.5195 pct from 9.3157 pctlast week, the Bank of England said.    This week's 100 mln stg offer of 91-day bills metapplications of 327 mln stg, the bank said.    Applications for bills dated Monday to Friday at the topaccepted rate of discount of 9.5261 pct were allotted about 81pct.    Next week 100 mln stg of Treasury bills will be offered,replacing 100 mln stg of maturities. REUTER
FHLBB CHANGES SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES The Federal Home Loan Bank Boardadjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows:    MATURITY   NEW RATE  OLD RATE  MATURITY  30-273 days  5.00 pct  5.00 pct    30-89 days 274-294 days  5.92 pct  5.83 pct   90-100 days 295-344 days  5.00 pct  5.00 pct  101-181 days 345-360 days  5.93 pct  5.82 pct  182-195 days                         5.00 pct  196-274 days                         5.90 pct  275-295 days                         5.00 pct  296-360 days Reuter
K MART <KM> SELLING KRESGE TO MCCRORY K mart Corp said it agreed to sellmost of the U.S. Kresge and Jupiter stores to McCrory Corp, asubsidiary of privately held Rapid American Corp.    It said the agreement covers 76 stores in 21 statesincluding inventory and fixtures. The price depends on theamount of the inventory that will be in the stores on theclosing date.    K mart said it will continue to operate the stores untilearly June, when McCrory will take over with no interruption ofservice.    The newly acquired Kresge and Jupiter stores will berenamed McCrory 5 and 10. McCrory currently operates 1,250stores in 38 states. Reuter
SPAIN RAISES CALL MONEY RATE TO 14.5 PCT The Bank of Spain said it raised its ratefor overnight call money to 14.5 pct from 14 pct with immediateeffect at today's daily auction for assistance funds.    The move followed comments yesterday by central bankgovernor Mariano Rubio, who said money supply growth was toofast.    The bank said later that it was leaving its rate forspecial assistance funds from its second window unchanged at 16pct, surprising operators who had expected an increase theretoo. REUTER
SALLIE MAE ADJUSTS SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES The Student Loan MarketingAssociation said its rates on short-term discount notes were asfollows:    MATURITY   NEW RATE    OLD RATE  MATURITY    5-14 days  5.65 pct    5.60 pct     5-14 days   15-78 days  5.00 pct    5.00 pct    15-81 days   79-85 days  5.83 pct    5.75 pct    82-88 days  89-360 days  5.00 pct    5.00 pct   89-174 days                           5.85 pct  175-180 days                           5.00 pct  181-360 days Reuter
FREDDIE MAC ADJUSTS SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT RATES The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corpadjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows:   MATURITY   RATE       OLD RATE  MATURITY    31 days   5.95 pct   6.00 pct  32 days   Reuter
FED EXPECTED TO TAKE NO MONEY MARKET ACTION The Federal Reserve is expected to takeno reserve-management action in the U.S. Government securitiesmarket during its usual intervention period, economists said.    They said that, if the Fed does act, it will likely addtemporary reserves indirectly by arranging one to 1.5 billiondlrs of customer repurchase agreements.    Federal funds, which averaged 6.14 pct yesterday, opened at5-15/16 pct and remained there in early trading. Analystsbelieve this probably is about where the Fed wants the fundsrate to be. Reuter
FHLBB SAYS MORTGAGE RATES CONTINUE DECLINE The Federal Home Loan Bank Board saidhome mortgage rates fell from early February to early March totheir lowest point in nine years, but the rate of decline wasslower than it had been in recent months.    The bank board said the average effective commitment ratefor fixed-rate mortgages for single family homes and a 25 pctloan-to-price ratio with a maturity of at least 15 years was9.48 pct in early March.    The rate was four basis points lower than a month ago, onlyone-eighth the size of decline in the previous month, the bankboard said.    Rates for adjustable-rate mortgages decline eight basispoints from early February to 8.43 pct in early March, the bankboard said. The drop was far less than the 15 basis pointdecline in the previous period, the agency said.    The average effective interest rate on all loans closed bymajor mortgage lenders declined nine basis points from earlyFebruary to early March, the agency said. The fall brought therate to 9.14 pct was the lowest since December 1977, it said.    The effective rate for ARMS was 8.39 pct, 15 basis pointsbelow a month earlier. For fixed-rate loans it was 9.36 pct, 14basis points below a month earlier, the agency said. Reuter
WHITE HOUSE SAYS INTEREST RATES REFLECT MARKET The White House said the rise ininterest rates was "unfortunate in a general sense" but reflectedmarket forces.    "There's always movement up and down and the basic fact isthat we believe the economy is strong and growing and therewill always be fluctuations in the interest rate, but theeconomy is sound and in good shape," spokesman Marlin Fitzwatersaid.    Citibank raised its prime rate by one quarter of a pointand the move was followed by other banks. Reuter
BANK OF MONTREAL LOWERS CREDIT CARD RATE Bank of Montreal said it will reduce theinterest rate it charges on outstanding MasterCard balances to18.3 pct from 21 pct, beginning in July.    The bank said it will continue its policy of not chargingany annual fee or transaction fees to credit card holders.                 Reuter
 HK SHANGHAI BANK, STANDARD CHARTERED BANK RAISE PRIME ONE-HALF POINT TO  Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp andStandard Chartered Bank raised their prime rate one-half pointto 6.5 pct, effective Tuesday, the Association of Banks said.    The association said in a statement deposit rates have alsobeen increased by 1/4 to 1/2 percentage point.    The banks last announced an adjustment on February 28 whenthey raised the prime rate by one point to six pct.    The deposit interest rates are now savings and 24 hours twopct, seven-day call, one week and two weeks 2-1/4 pct, onemonth and two months 2-3/4 pct, three and six months 3-1/4 pct,nine months 3-1/2 pct and 12 months four pct. REUTER
NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK LOWERS BENCHMARK PRIME National Australia Bank Ltd <NABA.S>said it lowered its benchmark prime lending rate to 18.25 pctfrom 18.5, effective today, but left its base rate at 18.5.    The benchmark reduction brings the rate into line with theprime rates of most of Australia's trading banks, includingthose of two of the other three major trading banks.    However, the rate is above the 18 pct - the lowest rulingrate - set by the other major, the Australia and New ZealandBanking Group Ltd <ANZA.S>, on Friday and effective today.    The benchmark is based on short-term interest ratemovements while the base rate is tied to longer-term trends. REUTER
CHASE-AMP BANK TO LOWER AUSTRALIAN PRIME RATE TO 17.75 PCT FROM 18.25  Profit-taking, domestic corporatedemand and limited Asian buying pushed the New Zealand dollarback to just below 0.5700 U.S. Dlrs in late trading after ithad fallen more than one cent in the morning session, dealerssaid.    It finished at 0.5693/00 U.S. Dlrs against a morning'squoted low of 0.5600/10, a 0.5720/30 start and a 0.5718/25 endyesterday.    Dealers said speculation that the Government's year-endMarch budget deficit will be lower than expected and will bringlower interest rates caused selling in nervous early trading.    Most dealers said deficit figures for the 11 months to endFebruary, released during the session, were ignored by manytraders who believe the figures lacked meaning while the sizeof the March tax-flow to Government is unknown.    Dealers said trading will remain uncertain in theshort-term.    "We hav+/Jkgressive rebound in thin trading and now themarket doesn't ?(e~hoing," one dealer said. REUTER
CHASE-AMP BANK CUTS AUSTRALIAN PRIME TO 17.75 PCT <Chase-AMP Bank Ltd> said it will lowerits prime lending rate to 17.75 pct from 18.25, effectivetomorrow.    The bank is the first to lower its prime rate below the 18pct set by a few banks in the last few days in a continuationof a downward trend which began late last month.    Other prime rates range from 18.25 to 18.5 pct, with themajority on 18.25.    The bank said the reduction reflected the recent downturnin money market rates, the improved economic outlook andadequate liquidity in the second quarter tax rundown period. REUTER
CHASE-AMP BANK CUTS AUSTRALIAN PRIME TO 17.75 PCT <Chase-AMP Bank Ltd> said it will lowerits prime lending rate to 17.75 pct from 18.25, effectivetomorrow.    The bank is the first to lower its prime rate below the 18pct set by a few banks in the last few days in a continuationof a downward trend which began late last month.    Other prime rates range from 18.25 to 18.5 pct, with themajority on 18.25.    The bank said the reduction reflected the recent downturnin money market rates, the improved economic outlook andadequate liquidity in the second quarter tax rundown period. REUTER
VOLCKER SAYS FED POLICY NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR PRIME R Eurodollar deposit rates closed littlechanged around the levels established at midmorning. Rates atthe longer end of the market showed 1/16 point gains on a weakopening from the dollar, dealers said.    Trading remained very quiet throughout the day withoperators sidelined in the absence of major U.S. Economic dataand ahead of this week's Group of Seven meeting in Washington.The G-7 finance ministers are due to discuss their Februarypact on currency stability and this could well have an impact.    One to five month eurodollars were steady with three monthsclosing at 6-9/16 7/16 pct.    Dealers noted that Federal Reserve Board Chairman PaulVolcker said a restrictive monetary policy would hit investmentand that a better course would be to restrain spending. Volckerwas testifying to the Senate Banking Committee.    Volcker also said a further fall in the dollar would becounterproductive and that the currency's performance could bea factor in determining U.S. Monetary policy.    Short dated eurodollars were steady with overnight tospot/next quoted at a uniform 6-1/4 1/8 pct. The Fed addedtemporary reserves via two-day system repurchase agreementswith Fed funds trading at 6-1/8 pct. REUTER
VOLCKER SAYS FED POLICY NOT LINKED TO RATE RISE Federal Reserve Board Chairman PaulVolcker said that he did not believe there was a connectionbetween the Fed's policies and the recent rise in the primeinterest rate by most major U.S. banks.    Asked by reporters following testimony before the SenateBanking Committee whether the Fed had anything to do with therise to 7-3/4 pct in the prime, he replied, "not that I was ableto detect." Reuter
U.S. SAYS NO PACT ON RELIEF FOR POOREST STATES There is no consensus so far amongindustrial countries on an agreement providing debt relief forthe world's poorest nations, a senior U.S. Treasury officialsaid.    The official said, "There has not been a consensus reachedyet," when asked about reports the Paris club of westerncreditors had agreed to long-term stretch outs of African debtat concessional interest rates.    The official, briefing reporters on this week's semiannualIMF meetings, said the issue would be discussed this week andthe U.S. had an open mind on the proposal but it did object toconcessional interest rate relief. Reuter
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 250 MLN STG The Bank of England said it forecast ashortage of around 250 mln stg in the money market today.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturingin official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drainsome 505 mln stg, while bills for repurchase by the market willremove around 194 mln. In addition, a rise in note circulationand bankers' balances below target will each drain around 110mln stg.    Partly offsetting these outflows, exchequer transactionswill add some 690 mln stg to the system today. REUTER
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - AUSTRALIAN MARKETS BOOMING Australian markets are booming as foreignfund managers redirect capital away from the United States andother traditional markets, analysts said.    High short-term interest rates, a bullish stock market andan increasingly stable currency reflect a massive inflow offresh funds in the last two months, largely from Japanese andU.S. Investors, analysts polled by Reuters said.    Fund managers want quality markets to park their cash inand have settled on Australia, Britain and Canada as theydiversify from volatile U.S. Dollar instruments, they said.    A one percentage point fall in key 10-year bonds rates inthe past month, record share prices and a 10-month high for thecurrency of 0.71 U.S. Dlrs all illustrated the inflow.    Official figures on the latest inflow of investment capitalare not available, but brokers said they received almost dailyinquiries from Japan and the United States.    "These people have got trillions of dollars sloshing aboutand they don't know what to do with it. Some of that is endingup here with the attraction of high interest rates andreasonable currency stability," National Australia Bank Ltdeconomist Brian Hamley said.    "There is a 'flight to quality'," Hamley said. "Australia maynot be in the best (economic) position, but there aren't toomany other countries where you'd want to put your money."    The stronger Australian dollar was also attractinginvestors taking advantage of an appreciating currency againstthe volatility of the U.S. Unit, analysts said.    "We're looking a more favoured market than perhaps the U.S.Where some people would be concerned about the value of theU.S. Dollar," Lloyds Bank NZA Ltd chief economist Will Buttrosesaid. "Why not put the money in Australia where entry is cheapand the currency looks stable?"    But turning that capital into more permanent productiveinvestment depends on government economic policy, he said.    "It will only disappear if people lose confidence in thedirection in the economy," Buttrose said, adding that offshoreinvestors would carefully watch the government's promised tougheconomic statement on May 14.    While happy to invest in bonds and other vehicles yieldinginterest unobtainable elsewhere, fund managers could just aseasily reverse the flow -- particularly the Japanese, who werebadly hurt in the past by rapid falls in the Australian dollarand hefty jumps in bond rates, analysts said.    "It will remain very edgy money. If something was not to bedelivered, if the statement wasn't considered tough enough, onemight see a substantial outflow," Buttrose said.    Offshore investors are eager to see Australia take tougheconomic decisions to curb its 100 billion dlr foreign debt andstubborn current account deficit, analysts said.    "They are giving us the benefit of the doubt and I thinkthey would like to leave the money here," Buttrose said.    Reserve Bank policy has also reflected the increasedinterest in investment in Australia and the need to shieldJapanese investors from rapid currency fluctuations.    Reserve Governor Bob Johnston last week acknowledged anelement of targeting the rate against the yen in currencypolicy when he said authorities could not take their "eyes offthe yen" because of the crucial role of Japanese investors.    Analysts said they believed the Reserve Bank had workedsuccessfully in recent months to keep the Australian dollarwithin the range of 100 to 103 yen.    Apart from its recovery against a weak U.S. Dollar, theAustralian dollar has also risen almost three pct on atrade-weighted basis in the last three weeks.    Offshore buying has also played a role in the boomingAustralian share market. It has followed Wall Street and othermarkets, but is also setting its own trend in response to theweight of both domestic and offshore funds pouring intoequities, particularly in the gold sector.    The key all ordinaries index rose to a record 1,758.3today, nearly 20 pct above its level at the end of 1986, whilethe gold index has nearly doubled to a record 3,081.0 in thesame period.    The property sector is also sought after, with Japanesecompanies that have invested heavily in the United States inrecent years turning their attention to undervalued realestate, particularly in the tourism field.    Analysts pointed to the recent sale of Sydney's five-starRegent Hotel to Japanese interests for more than 145 mln dlrsas indicative of the type of property being sought.    "They think they find good value real estate here which,with long term and fixed capital investment, is the kind ofinvestment Australia needs," Buttrose added. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 53 MLN STG ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it provided themoney market with 53 mln stg assistance in the morning session.    This compares with the bank's estimate of a shortage in thesystem of around 300 mln stg which it earlier revised up from250 mln.    The central bank made outright purchases of bank billscomprising 46 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct and seven mlnstg in band four at 9-11/16 pct. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 166 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it provided themarket with further help totalling 166 mln stg during theafternoon.    In band one, it bought 31 mln stg of treasury bills andthree mln stg of bank bills at 9-7/8 pct, while in band two itbought 69 mln stg of bank bills at 9-13/16 pct. In addition, itbought 63 mln stg of band three bank bills at 9-3/4 pct.    This brings the total assistance by the Bank so far todayto 219 mln stg against a liquidity shortage it has estimated ataround 300 mln stg. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve is expected tointervene in the government securities market to supplytemporary reserves indirectly via customer repurchaseagreements, economists said.    Economists expect the Fed to execute 2.0-2.5 billion dlrsof customer repos to offset pressures from the end of thetwo-week bank reserve maintenance period today. Some also lookfor a permanent reserve injection to offset seasonal pressuresvia an outright purchase of bills or coupons this afternoon.     The Federal funds rate opened at 6-3/8 pct and remained atthat level, up from yesterday's 6.17 pct average. Reuter
FED SETS OVERNIGHT SYSTEM REPURCHASES,  Raytheon said a 10 pct rise inits first quarter net to 101.8 mln dlrs reflected improvedoperations and a lower effective tax rate.    The company said revenue gains in electronics, majorappliances and other lines were offset by decreases in energyservices and aircraft products. Revenues in the quarter rose1.4 pct to 1.75 billion dlrs, it said.    The company said backlog stood at 7.520 billion dlrs, downfrom 7.912 billion dlrs a year earlier. It said a five year3.55 billion dlr U.S. defense contract was awarded shortlyafter the close of the first quarter. Reuter
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA OVERNIGHT REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange overnight Systemrepurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.    Dealers said that Federal funds were trading at 6-3/8 pctwhen the Fed began its temporary and direct supply of reservesto the banking system. Reuter
J.P. MORGAN<JPM> SAYS DLR MAY PREVENT FED EASING The relatively high level of real U.S.interest rates suggests that there is scope for furtherdeclines in money market rates, but the Federal Reserve isunlikely to promote such a drop as long as the dollar remainsvolatile, said J.P. Morgan and Co Inc chairman Lewis Preston.    He said in response to a reporter's question after thebank's annual meeting that money market rates could declinefurther but, "I don't think the Fed is going to encourage thatas long as the exchange markets are as volatile as they are."    On the other hand, he said that, barring a collapse of thedollar, he did not see rates going much higher.    He said that Morgan's recent rise in its prime lending ratewas "purely a reflection of an increase in a whole spectrum ofrates."    Preston reiterated earlier company forecasts that the U.S.economy should show roughly 2.5 to three pct real growth thisyear.    He also said that as a consequence of the dollar's declineand oil price rises, inflation would rise "moderately" to a 3.5to four pct rate in 1987. Reuter
WOJNILOWER SEES DROP IN U.S. INTEREST RATES The Federal Reserve will promote lowerinterest rates this year to sustain world economic growth,First Boston Corp managing director Albert Wojnilower said.    As much as the Fed would like to take a tough line againstinflation, it cannot act to slow the growth of credit withoutsubverting national U.S. economic policy.    "On selected occasions when the dollar seems steady, and,because the trade deficit is not responding, the United Statesdecided to push Germany and Japan harder to meet theircommitments to economic growth, the Federal Reserve will do itspart by moving rates down," Wojnilower said in a report.    "Justifiably not anticipating either a recession orseriously higher interest rates, securities market participantshave seen little to fear," Wojnilower said.    He said last week's "hiccup" in money and currency ratesand bond and stock prices was probably caused by Japanesewindow dressing for March 31 end-of-fiscal-year accounts.    Wojnilower said the U.S. probably enjoyed above-averageeconomic growth in the first quarter. However, the pick-upseems to reflect an unsustainable pace of inventory buildingand the prospect for the full year is still for real grossnational product growth of about 2-1/2 pct, he said. Reuter
BUNDESBANK CALLS FOR CENTRAL BANK COOPERATION Bundesbank board member Claus Koehlercalled on central banks of major industrialised nations tocooperate closely on exchange and interest rate policies.    In a lecture at the University of Surrey, pre-releasedhere, Koehler said that the only alternative to cooperation wasprotectionism and control on capital movements.    "Central banks have sufficient experience of exchange markettransactions to steer exchange rates where they want to havethem," he said. He added that West German growth forecasts wouldhave to be revised downward because of the recent dollar dropto 1.80 marks from above two marks at the start of 1987.    Koehler said that transactions on foreign exchange marketshad parted company with transactions in goods, services andinvestments. It was the scale of speculative transactions thatdetermined market trends.    Speculative inflows could cause monetary aggregates togrow. To reverse such a rise in the money stock, interest rateswould have to be lowered to allow funds to drain off.    "In other words, the monetary policy measures required aredifferent from -- and sometimes diametrically opposed to --those needed when the money stock is increasing as a result ofmounting economic activity," Koehler said.    The dollar fall was one means of reducing the massive U.S.Current account deficit. But attempts to keep the depreciationgoing by talking the dollar down posed problems.    The sharp drop of the dollar had led to an immediate steeprise in the cost of U.S. Imports and a sharp fall in the costof European imports. But the volume effect of falling importsto the U.S. And rising imports to Europe would take time tomake itself felt compared with the price effect.    "Hence the depreciation of the dollar may well be goingfurther than would be necessary to adjust the current accountover the medium term," Koehler said.    A reduction in the U.S. Current account deficit would occuronly if the growth rate of GNP was higher than domestic demand.In Japan and West Germany by contrast, domestic demand shouldrise faster than GNP.    "In Germany this did indeed happen in 1986," Koehler said.    If a further appreciation of the dollar was to beprevented, the U.S. Current account deficit could be offset byan inflow of foreign funds into the U.S..    But only if there was an appropriate interest ratedifferential would Europe and Japan look for financialinvestment in the U.S.    When selecting monetary policy instruments, a central bankhad to pay greater heed than in the past to the impact itsmeasures might have on expectations and consequent decisions.    Koehler said the Bundesbank was changing money market ratesby operating on the open market rather than adjusting leadinginterest rates because of the signal this gives to the marketand its substantial impact on exchange rates.    It was not only important to achieve the domestic goals ofprice stability, economic growth and full employment but alsoto tackle international problems like the exchange rateproblem, the debt problem and the current account problem.    A strategy had to be designed that helped "the safeguardingof non-inflationary economic growth in an internationalmonetary system largely free of disruptions," Koehler said.    Given the system of floating exchange rates, it wasnecessary for central banks to agree to intervene. It sufficedto tell the market where central banks saw exchange rates overthe next few years and intervention points should not be set,because they were only testing points for the market, he said.    In order to keep the international monetary system free ofdisruptions central banks should not only intervene jointly butalso cooperate on interest rate policies, Koehler said. REUTER
BANK OF FRANCE TO HOLD MONEY MARKET TENDER TODAY The Bank of France said it has invitedoffers of first category paper today for a money marketintervention tender.    Money market operators were divided over whether the Bankof France will use to occasion to cut its intervention rate,which has stood at 7-3/4 pct since March 9.    Some thought a price cut unlikely while others said therewas room for a further 1/4 point cut by the bank. REUTER
SAUDI RATES RISE AS BAHRAIN BANKS CAUGHT SHORT Saudi riyal interest rates rose asBahrain-based banks scrambled to cover short positions, dealerssaid.    Several Bahrain banks had been lending in the fixed periodsand borrowing in the short dates, but today they found theday-to-day money in short supply, dealers said.    "Everybody's stuck in the spot-next," one trader said.    Spot-next rose to as high as 6-1/4, six pct from 5-1/4,five pct yesterday, and the borrowing interest spilled overinto the periods, with one month rising to around 6-3/16,5-15/16 pct from 5-15/16, 7/8 pct yesterday.    Three months edged up to around 6-9/16, 5/16 pct from6-7/16, 1/4 pct, while six months was quoted a touch firmer bysome banks at seven, 6-3/4 pct.    Commercial banks quoted the spot riyal at 3.7500/04 to thedollar after 3.7507/09 yesterday. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GETS 103 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it operated inthe money market this morning, buying 103 mln stg bank bills.    The central bank bought in band one 60 mln stg at 9-7/8, inband two eight mln at 9-13/16, in band three 26 mln at 9-3/4and in band four nine mln stg at 9-11/16 pct.    This compares with the bank's forecast of a 400 mln stgshortfall today. REUTER
GERMAN MONEY MARKET SPLIT ON LOWER RATE PROSPECTS Remarks by central bankers raised somehopes the Bundesbank will cut rates on securities repurchasepacts, but operators remained divided on the likelihood of amove in the near term, money market dealers said.    Comments by Bundesbank board member Claus Koehler yesterdaythat rate cuts were needed to curb money supply growth fromspeculative capital inflows, and by West Berlin state centralbank president Dieter Hiss that there was no natural lowerlimit to the discount rate had, however, no immediate impact.    Call money declined to 3.65/75 pct from 3.75/85 pct but thedrop was tied to extra liquidity in the market, dealers said.    Dealers said the Bundesbank's latest liquidity allotmentthis week dashed some hopes of lower rates.    The Bundesbank allotted only 6.1 billion marks yesterday innew liquidity in a repurchase pact at an unchanged rate of 3.80pct, thus subtracting some 8.8 billion marks from the market,as an outgoing 14.9 billion pact expired.    But some dealers said the smaller volume awarded by thepact was in line with present liquid money market conditions,and did not exlude a cut in the repurchase pact rate soon to3.70 pct if money market rates continue at present levels.    The next opportunity for the Bundesbank to lower rates onrepurchase pacts will be in a tender expected next Tuesday.    Bundesbank officials have already said they favour morediscreet rate adjustments through repurchase pacts, rather thanthe more public adjustment of leading rates.    The Bundesbank may either set a fixed allocation rate andallow banks to tender for the volume, as has been the casesince it lowered its discount rate January 22, or else it mayallow banks to tender for the rate and set the volume itself.    Dealers expect volume of the tender to be lower than the15.2 billion marks flowing out, to offset other incoming funds.    Some seven billion marks is expected to flow in next week.This should then flow back into the market as it is depositedwith banks.    Banks were well supplied with liquidity, holding 61.5billion marks in reserves at the Bundesbank on Tuesday.    Holdings of average daily reserves over the first sevendays of April stood at 59.6 billion marks, still above theestimated 51 billion required for all of April. REUTER
 BUNDESBANK SEES NO REASON TO CHANGE MONETARY  The Bank of England said it has satisfiedits revised estimate of today's shortfall in the money market,providing 261 mln stg assistance in afternoon operations.    The Bank bought in band one, 60 mln stg bank bills at 9-7/8pct and in band two 200 mln stg bank bills and one mln stgtreasury bills at 9-13/16 pct. This brings the total help sofar today to 364 mln stg, compared with its deficit estimate of350 mln stg. REUTER
BUNDESBANK SEES NO CHANGE IN MONETARY COURSE The Bundesbank sees no current reasonto change monetary course, vice-president Helmut Schlesingertold Reuters in a telephone interview.    Schlesinger was responding to questions following remarksyesterday by Bundesbank board member Claus Koehler and WestBerlin state central bank president Dieter Hiss, which, dealerssaid, revived some speculation that German interest rate cutsmay once again be under discussion.    Schlesinger said he had no comment on the remarks of histwo central bank council colleagues.    But he added that the last central bank council meeting onApril 2 had discussed the economic situation with a mood of"subdued optimism," particularly influenced by the news broughtby several state central bank presidents.    "Much is going better than the impression gained by thepublic from the January figures, which have been in themeantime superseded," he said.    German January industrial output fell 3.0 pct after adecline of 0.9 pct in December. New industry orders fell 1.9pct after they had been unchanged in December.    Bank economists said that the two together showed theeconomy would either stagnate or contract in the first quarterof 1987.    Aside from the economic developments, Schlesinger added, asteady monetary course was important to hold the dollar/markrate around current levels as Bundesbank president Karl OttoPoehl had said while attending the Washington World Bank/IMFmeeting.    Asked, however, if the Bundesbank could move to cut rateson repurchase agreements at the setting of the next repurchasetender, due next Tuesday, Schlesinger said, "Since the centralbank council gives its opinion on this theme only every 14days, this is hardly probable."    Responding to the question whether the Bundesbank had movedaway from a policy of targetting monetary growth toward one oftargetting currency rates, Schlesinger said he could have nocomment on the subject while negotiations were still inprogress in Washington. REUTER
BANK OF FRANCE LEAVES INTERVENTION RATE UNCHANGED The Bank of France said it left itsintervention rate unchanged at 7-3/4 pct when it injected fundsin the market against first category paper in today's moneymarket intervention tender.    Money market dealers had earlier expressed mixed views onthe possibility of quarter point cut.    The rate was last adjusted on March 9, when it was cut to7-3/4 pct from the eight pct rate set in January. REUTER
SPANISH EMPLOYERS WORRIED BY HIGH INTEREST RATES The head of Spain's employers'federation, Jose Maria Cuevas, said employers were worriedabout the government's monetary policies because high realinterest rates were hampering investment.    He told a news conference wage pacts signed so far thisyear were not endangering the government's five pct inflationtarget. The government's perceived need to control inflation bykeeping a tight rein on credit was unnecessary, he said.    High real interest rates were attracting an influx ofspeculative foreign capital which was undercutting thegovernment's target for monetary growth, Cuevas said.    Spain's most closely-watched measure of money supply,liquid assets in public hands, grew at an annualised rate of 17pct in March, against 11.4 pct in December last year and atarget range of 6.5 to 9.5 pct for 1987.    To combat this, the Bank of Spain has raised its call moneyrate 14 times so far this year, to 14.5 pct at present from11.8 at end-1986.    Cuevas said employers were heeding the government's call tohold wage increases to its five pct inflation target this year,with increases from salary reviews awarded last year and newwage pacts averaging 5.6 pct in the first quarter of 1987.    These agreements covered less than 40 pct of Spanishworkers, Cuevas said, with the rest still in wage negotiations.    He said Spain's current wave of strikes mainly affected thestate sector, where the government is trying to impose its fivepct wage ceiling.    Cuevas said employers were also worried about the trend inSpain's foreign trade balance. The trade deficit in the firsttwo months of 1987 totalled 233 billion pesetas, a 68 pctincrease over the corresponding period last year.    However, employers did not favour a devaluation of thepeseta to correct the imbalance. REUTER
FHLBB CHANGES SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES The Federal Home Loan Bank Boardadjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows:    MATURITY   NEW RATE  OLD RATE  MATURITY  30-174 days  5.00 pct  5.00 pct    30-87 days 175-190 days  5.85 pct  5.82 pct   88-103 days 191-270 days  5.00 pct  5.00 pct  104-179 days 271-288 days  5.92 pct  5.85 pct  180-205 days 289-360 days  5.00 pct  5.00 pct  206-360 days                        Reuter
SALLIE MAE ADJUSTS SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES The Student Loan MarketingAssociation said its rates on short-term discount notes were asfollows:    MATURITY   NEW RATE    OLD RATE  MATURITY    5-14 days  5.80 pct    5.75 pct     5-14 days  15-360 days  5.00 pct    5.00 pct    15-85 days                           5.80 pct    86-91 days                           5.00 pct   92-176 days                           5.83 pct  177-183 days                           5.00 pct  184-360 days Reuter
FREDDIE MAC ADJUSTS SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT RATES The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corpadjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows:   MATURITY   RATE       OLD RATE  MATURITY    33 days   6.00 pct   6.00 pct  33 days   Reuter
U.K. CHANCELLOR LAWSON SAYS THERE MAY BE NEE Mobil Corp said sales of its MontgomeryWard and Co subsidiary for the five weeks ended April Four rose3.3 pct on a comparable store basis to 332.9 mln dlrs from323.2 mln dlrs a year ago.    Cumulative sales for the nine week period of February Onethrough April Four rose 7.3 pct on a comparable store basis to609.6 mln dlrs from 572.2 mln dlrs.    It said the number of stores in operation was 295, two morethan in the same 1986 period. Reuter
FHLBB CHANGES SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES The Federal Home Loan Bank Boardadjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows:    MATURITY   NEW RATE  OLD RATE  MATURITY  30-174 days  5.00 pct  5.00 pct   30-174 days 175-190 days  5.88 pct  5.85 pct  175-190 days 191-270 days  5.00 pct  5.00 pct  191-270 days 271-288 days  5.92 pct  5.92 pct  271-288 days 289-360 days  5.00 pct  5.00 pct  289-360 days                        Reuter
FED MAY ADD RESERVES TO BANKING SYSTEM The Federal Reserve may intervene inthe government securities market to supply temporary reservesindirectly via customer repurchase agreements, economists said.    They said that while the Fed faces no great urgency to addreserves at the start of the two-week maintenance period todayit would probably do so in order to offset a relatively highfederal funds rate.    Fed funds opened at 6-3/16 pct and remained there in earlytrading. Yesterday, they averaged 6.45 pct, after rising ashigh as seven pct at the close. Reuter
LAWSON SAYS SOME COUNTRIES COULD CUT RATES Nigel Lawson, Britain's Chancellor ofthe Exchequer, said some countries may need to cut interestrates with the aim of maintaining exchange rate stability.    Speaking to journalists one day after the Group of Sevencountries reaffirmed goals set in Paris six weeks ago, he saidcentral banks would continue to intervene "as and whennecessary."    He said the G-7 countries were concerned that Japan do moreto stimulate domestic demand and welcomed measures outlined byJapanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa yesterday.    Lawson said he was still worried about  the risk of asimultaneous recession in the United States, Japan and WestGermany, though less so than when he gave his March 17 budgetspeech to the British Parliament.    "If anything I'm a little bit less concerned, but there isstill a risk," he said.    Asked if the United States should consider increasinginterest rates to support the dollar, he said, "If there is aneed for changes in relative interest rates, it doesn't need tobe a rise in interest rates in the United States."    Lawson said there was some concern expressed in yesterday'smeetings at the slow progress the United States had made inreducing its budget deficit.    "We believe there will be some worthwhile progress inreducing the deficit this year. The important thing is that itcontinue year after year," Lawson said.    The February 22 Louvre accord called for efforts tostabilize currencies at then-current exchange rates. In the sixweeks that followed the Japanese yen continued to rise againstthe dollar despite massive central bank intervention.    Asked whether this intervention was a sign of weakness inthe Louvre accord, he said, "I don't think so. If there had beenno intervention you would have called that a sign of weakness."    Although intervention could be a cause of inflation, Lawsonsaid, "the world does not appear to be in an inflationary mode... but one has to be vigilant."    He said yesterday's G-7 statement, which affirmed that"current levels" of exchange rates were appropriate, had been"carefully worded." "We know what we mean, and we all mean thesame thing," he said.    Lawson said financial markets seem to believe that Japanesemeasures outlined in the Louvre accord were the source ofweakness for that agreement.    Therefore, the G-7 countries welcomed Miyazawa'spresentation of plans for a supplemental budget to stimulatedomestic demand.    They particularly welcomed the goal of an immediateincrease in public works spending, but Lawson said the packagealso involved a second stage to increase expenditures duringthe second half of this year. Reuter
CANADA 91-DAY T-BILLS AVERAGE 6.95 PCT, MAKING BANK RATE  The U.S. drilling rig count rose by fourlast week to a total of 752, against 987 working rigs one yearago, Hughes Tool Co said.    In Canada, the rig count continued falling last weekbecause of the government's annual springtime ban prohibitingheavy equipment from being transported over rain-softenedhighways. A total of 85 rigs were working in Canada, down 46from the previous week, Hughes said. At this time last year, atotal of 109 rigs were working in Canada.    Among individual states, Louisiana and New Mexico eachreported drilling declines of 10 rigs and Kansas was down byseven. Gains were reported in Oklahoma, Wyoming and Texas whichincreased by 20, seven and one, respectively.    Hughes said the total of 752 working rigs in the UnitedStates included 17 in inland waters, 74 in offshore waters and661 on land. Reuter
CANADIAN BANK RATE RISES IN WEEK Canada's key bank rate rose to 7.20 pctfrom 7.15 pct the week before, Bank of Canada said.    Bank rate is set 1/4 percentage point above the averageyield on the weekly issue of 91-day treasury bills. This week'syield was 6.95 pct compared with the previous week's 6.90 pct.    Tenders were accepted for 2.55 billion dlrs of 91-day billsat an average price of 98.296 dlrs against 98.310 dlrs lastweek.    The 1.40 billion dlrs of 182-day bills were priced at anaverage 96.488 dlrs against 96.549 dlrs last week, to yield anaverage 7.30 pct, versus 7.17 pct last week.    The 500 mln dlrs of 364-day bills were priced at an average92.969 dlrs against 93.159 dlrs last week, to yield an average7.58 pct versus 7.38 pct last week.    Tenders will be received next week for 2.50 billion dlrs of 91-day bills, 1.40 billion dlrs of 182-day bills and 500 mlndlrs of 364-day bills.           Reuter
ANALYSTS DOUBT FED FIRMED DESPITE BORROWING RISE Economists said that they doubt theFederal Reserve is firming policy to aid the dollar, despitehigher discount window borrowings in the latest two-weekstatement period and very heavy borrowings Wednesday.    Data out today show net borrowings from the Fed averaged393 mln dlrs in the two weeks to Wednesday, up from 265 mlndlrs in the prior statement period. Wednesday borrowings were1.4 billion dlrs as Federal funds averaged a high 6.45 pct.    "One could make a case that the Fed is firming, but itprobably isn't," said William Sullivan of Dean Witter Reynolds.    Sullivan said some may assume the Fed has firmed policymodestly to support the dollar because net borrowings in thetwo-weeks to Wednesday were nearly 400 mln dlrs after averagingaround 250 mln dlrs over the previous two months.    However, the Dean Witter economist noted that the latesttwo-week period included a quarter end when seasonal demandoften pushes up borrrowings.    "Some might argue that the Fed was firming policy, but itlooks like it tried to play catchup with reserve provisionslate in the statement period and didn't quite make it," saidWard McCarthy of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.    A Fed spokesman told a press press conference today thatthe Fed had no large net one-day miss of two billion dlrs ormore in its reserve projections in the week ended Wednesday.    Still, McCarthy said it may have had a cumulative miss inits estimates over the week that caused it to add fewerreserves earlier in the week than were actually needed.    The Fed took no market reserve management action lastThursday and Friday, the first two days of the week. It addedtemporary reserves indirectly on Monday via two billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements and then supplied reservesdirectly via System repurchases on Tuesday and Wednesday.    Based on Fed data out today, economists calculated that thetwo-day System repurchase agreements the Fed arrranged onTuesday totaled around 5.9 billion dlrs. They put Wednesday'sovernight System repos at approximately 3.4 billion dlrs.    "It is quite clear that the Fed is not firming policy atthis time," said Larry Leuzzi of S.G. Warburg and Co Inc.    Citing the view shared by the other two economists, Leuzzisaid the Fed cannot really afford to seriously lift interestrates to help the dollar because that would harm already weakeconomies in the United States and abroad and add to thefinancial stress of developing countries and their lenders.    "Those who believe the Fed tightened policy in the lateststatement period have to explain why it acted before the dollartumbled," said McCarthy of Merrill Lynch.    He said the dollar staged a precipitous drop as a newstatement period began today on disappointment yesterday'sWashington meetings of international monetary officials failedto produce anything that would offer substantive dollar aid.    In fact, currency dealers said there was nothing inWednesday's G-7 communique to alter the prevailing view thatthe yen needs to rise further to redress the huge tradeimbalance between the United States and Japan.    The economists generally agreed that the Fed is aiming forsteady policy now that should correspond to a weekly averageFed funds rate between six and 6-1/8 pct. This is about wherethe rate has been since early November.    "I'm not so sure that the Fed is engineering a tighterpolicy to help the dollar, as some suspect," said Sullivan ofDean Witter.    If it is, however, he said that Fed probably has justnudged up its funds rate goal to around 6.25 to 6.35 pct fromsix to 6.10 pct previously. Reuter
U.S. MARKETS OFFER GLIMPSE OF VOLCKER NIGHTMARE Today's turmoil in the U.S. Financialmarkets, with bond and stock prices tumbling in the dollar'swake, is evidence of a major shift in investor psychology thatis likely to spell more turbulence ahead, economists said.    For two years, the markets had hailed the dollar's declineas the cure-all for the U.S. Trade deficit. Interest rates fellsharply and Wall Street became a one-way street, up.    But that confidence is now cracking as the financialmarkets suddenly believe Fed chairman Paul Volcker'soften-repeated warnings about the risks of a dollar collapse.    "Volcker's been saying for a long time that a dollarfreefall would be extremely dangerous - now he's got it," saidDavid Jones, economist at Aubrey G. Lanston and Co Inc.    The dollar fell below 144 yen today for the first time in40 years as the Group of Seven finance ministers in Washingtonfailed to convince the foreign exchange market that they have acredible strategy for redressing global trade imbalances, shortof further depreciation of the dollar.    Bonds suffered their biggest one-day drop in months amidworries that the dollar's slide will rekindle inflation, scareaway foreign investors and force the Fed to tighten credit.    The inflationary fears boosted gold bullion by more than 12dlrs to a 1987 high of 432.20/70 dlrs an ounce, while the spikein interest rates pulled the Dow Jones Industrial Average downby 33 points to 2339.    Norman Robertson, Mellon Bank chief economist, called themarkets' instability frightening. He believes economicfundamentals do not justify the bearishness but said that "onceyou start the ball rolling it's difficult to stop."    "There's a stark possibility that you could get adestabilizing drop in the dollar that forces up interest ratesand drives us into recession. The markets are in a panic."    Stephen Marris of the Institute for International Economicsin Washington, has been warning for a long time that thecontrolled decline of the dollar since peaks of 3.47 marks and264 yen in February 1985 could turn into a nightmare.    "We're still more or less on track for a hard landing... Butthe agony may be fairly drawn out," Marris told Reuters.    Marris does not expect the crisis to peak until later thisyear, but he warned that the situation is so fragile that itwould take very little to touch off what he calls the secondphase of the hard landing, whereby a loss of confidence in thedollar pushes up interest rates and leads to a recession.    The stock market's reaction today and its sharp drop onMarch 30 shows how the loss of confidence could come about.    The fact that it has not happened yet is consistent withhistorical experience, which teaches that domestic markets arenot affected until a currency is in the final stages of itsdecline, Marris said. He has forecast a drop to about 125 yen.    Marris felt that a major impetus for the dollar's latestweakness was the loss of credibility that central bankssuffered when they failed to prevent the dollar from fallingbelow 150 yen, the floor that the market believes was set aspart of the G-7 Paris agreement in February.    Robertson at Mellon, by contrast, said the loss ofconfidence was triggered last week when Washington announcedplans to slap 300 mln dlrs of tariffs on Japanese electronicimports, raising the specter of a debilitating trade war.    Many economists believe that long-run stability will notreturn to the markets until the root cause of the trade gap isaddressed - excessive consumption in the U.S., Reflected in themassive budget deficit.    But in the short term, given the failure of the G-7 and ofcentral bank intervention, some feel that the Fed will have nochoice but to tighten credit to restore faith in the dollar.    "The only thing that will stop the dollar falling is asubstantial increase in the discount rate and a correspondingcut abroad, at least by Japan," said Lanston's Jones.    Marris expects the Fed to act quickly to raise interestrates, even at the risk of increasing the debt burden forAmerican farmers, Latin American governments and others.    But Robert Giordano, chief economist at Goldman Sachs andCo, scoffed at the notion. "It's ridiculous to think the FederalReserve will raise interest rates when the dollar is weakagainst just one currency. This is yen strength, not dollarweakness," he said.    Giordano said the market was ignoring the progress beingmade toward reducing the U.S. Budget deficit.    "We're going to have one of the biggest reductions in thebudget deficit relative to GNP in history this year, and nobodycares," he said, noting that only the deficit cut in 1968-69will have been greater.    He said he does not expect the dollar to collapse andthinks interest rates are likely to fall back later this year.    But for now, market psychology has changed so abruptly thata further drop in the bond market cannot be ruled out. "Put onyour helmets," Giordano said. REUTER
AVERAGE YEN CD RATES FALL IN LATEST WEEK Average interest rates on yencertificates of deposit (CD) fell to 4.13 pct in the week endedApril 8 from 4.33 pct the previous week, the Bank of Japansaid.    New rates (previous in brackets) -    Average CD rates all banks 4.13 pct (4.33)    Money Market Certificate (MMC) ceiling rates for weekstarting from April 13 -       3.38 pct (3.58)    Average CD rates of city, trust and long-term banks -    Less than 60 days          4.15 pct (4.41)    60-90 days                 4.14 pct (4.29)    Average CD rates of city, trust and long-term banks -    90-120 days                4.12 pct (4.25)    120-150 days               4.12 pct (4.23)    150-180 days               unquoted (4.03)    180-270 days               4.05 pct (4.05)    Over 270 days              4.05 pct (unqtd)    Average yen bankers acceptance rates of city, trust andlong-term banks -    30 to less than 60 days    3.98 pct (4.20)    60-90 days                 4.03 pct (3.97)    90-120 days                unquoted (unqtd) REUTER
JAPAN HAS NO PLANS TO CUT DISCOUNT RATE Bank of Japan sources said the bankhas no plans to cut its discount rate.    They told reporters that there was no pressure on Japanduring the Group of Seven (G-7) meeting here yesterday to lowerits discount rate. They added that they themselves do not feelany need for a cut at all.    Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson told reportersearlier today that some countries - those with strongcurrencies - might have to cut interest rates.    The Bank of Japan sources also said that it was too soon tocall the G-7 pact a failure.    The central bank sources were commenting on the dollar'srenewed tumble in New York and Tokyo, which was sparked byremarks by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker that thedollar's fall had been orderly.    They said the market must have misinterpreted Baker'scomments because he was referring to the dollar's fall sincethe Plaza agreement in September 1985, over a long-time span,not the currency's recent movements.    They added that the foreign exchange markest seem to seizeon anything to use as an excuse to drive the dollar one way orthe other.    The Bank of Japan sources said the U.S. Is putting moreweight on the dollar/yen rate in terms of judging marketstability than on other currencies.    Throughout the G-7 meeting, Japan pointed to the dangersthat would arise from a further dollar fall because it wouldreduce the flow of Japanese capital to the U.S., Hurting theU.S. And world economies, they said.    In February and in March of this year, Japanese investorsreduced their purchases of U.S. Treasury bonds, the sourcessaid.    Each country in the G-7 - Britain, Canada, France, Italy,Japan, the U.S. And West Germany - has a different view aboutcurrency stability, the Bank of Japan sources said.    This is because the overall foreign exchange market is atriangle of dollar/yen, European currencies/yen anddollar/European currencies.    At the time of the Louvre agreement, European countries didnot want the yen to weaken against their currencies so they didnot object to the yen strengthening, they said. REUTER
INTEREST RATE DIFFERENTIALS TOO SMALL, BANKER SAYS Swiss National Bank President PierreLanguetin said a wider interest rate differential between thedollar and stronger currencies was needed to brake the dollar'sfall.    At a news conference, he said Japan and West Germany couldtry to stimulate their economies further by expanding moneysupply, but he added "I'm not so sure it would be desirable ifmonetary policy became more expansive.    "But what would be useful is a greater differential ininterest rates," he said. REUTER
YIELD RISES ON 30-DAY SAMA DEPOSITS The yield on 30-day Bankers SecurityDeposit Accounts issued this week by the Saudi Arabian MonetaryAgency (SAMA) rose by more than 1/8 point to 5.95913 pct from5.79348 a week ago, bankers said.    SAMA decreased the offer price on the 900 mln riyal issueto 99.50586 from 99.51953 last Saturday. Like-dated interbankdeposits were quoted today at 6-3/8, 1/8 pct -- 1/8 pointhigher than last Saturday.    SAMA offers a total of 1.9 billion riyals in 30, 91 and180-day paper to banks in the kingdom each week. REUTER
UAE CENTRAL BANK CD YIELDS RISE Yields on certificates of deposit(CD) offered by the United Arab Emirates Central Bank werehigher than last Monday's offering, the bank said.    The one-month CD rose 1/4 point to 6-3/8 pct, while thetwo, three and six-month maturities rose 5/16 point each to6-7/16, 6-1/2 and 6-5/8 pct respectively. REUTER
COMMONWEALTH BANK CUTS AUSTRALIA PRIME TO 17.5 PCT The Commonwealth Bank of Australia saidit will lower its prime lending rate to 17.5 pct from 18.25,effective April 15.    The bank's new rate will be the lowest of Australia'scurrent prime rates. They now range from 17.75 pct to 18.5after a recent series of reductions since late March followingan easier trend in short term money market rates.    Two of the three other major trading banks now have primerates of 18 pct and one of 18.25.    The Commonwealth's move reverses an increase from 17.5 pctin early February. REUTER
SAUDI RIYAL DEPOSITS SURGE ON U.S. RATE RISE Saudi riyal interbank deposit ratessurged across the board as banks tried to build long positionsin anticipation of a further rise in U.S. Interest rates,dealers said.    They said traders expected riyal deposits to follow therecent strong rise in eurodollar rates sparked by fears of atighter U.S. Monetary policy to halt the dollar's slide.    "There was a wave of panic buying early in the morning aspeople tried to cover gaps and build long riyal positions," saidone dealer. As a result, riyal deposits were strongly bid andtraders scrambled for any available offers.    One-way trade focused mainly on the fixed periods but shortdates also rose, dealers said. Spot-next and one-week depositsclimbed to 6-5/8, 1/8 pct from 6-3/8, six on Sunday.    One-month deposits rose to 6-1/2, 3/8 pct from 6-1/4, sixand three-month deposits climbed to 6-3/4, 5/8 pct from 6-9/16,7/16. Six-month deposits also firmed to 7-1/8, seven pct from7-1/16, 6-7/8 on Sunday.    The spot riyal was steady at 3.7500/03 to the dollar afterquotes of 3.7498/7503 yesterday. REUTER
YIELD ON 91-DAY SAMA DEPOSITS RISES The yield on 91-day bankers securitydeposit accounts issued this week by the Saudi Arabian MonetaryAgency (SAMA) rose to 6.43896 pct from 6.21563 a week ago,bankers said.    SAMA lowered the offer price on the 500 mln riyal issue to98.39844 from 98.45313 last Monday. Like-dated interbankdeposits were quoted today at 6-3/4, 5/8 pct.    SAMA offers a total of 1.9 billion riyals in 30, 91 and180-day accounts to banks in the Kingdom each week. REUTER
U.S. SENATE LEADER CALLS FOR INTEREST RATE CUTS Senate Finance Committee ChairmanLloyd Bentsen (D-Tex.) called on major industrial countries tomake a pledge at the coming economic summit in Venice to cutinterest rates.    "I think at the summit meeting in Venice what we ought to betrying to do is to get the other major industrial nations thatare involved to bring interest rates down, say, one pct,"Bentsen told NBC Television's "Meet the Press."    Bentsen said coordinated rate cuts could take "billions offthe debt service of the Latin countries" and help easeprotectionist pressures in the industrial countries.    Bentsen also South Korea and Taiwan should be pressured torevalue their currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar.    "You take the Taiwanese, with an enormous capital surplus,enormous trade surplus, and we've had very little cooperationthere," he said.    Departing Deputy Treasury Secretary Richard Darman told thesame television network he agreed that the U.S. dollar had notfallen enough against the currencies of some countries.    "I think that more does have to be done there innegotiations with the countries involved, the so-called NICs(newly industrialized countries)," he said.    Darman said such negotiations with newly industrializedcountries were underway privately.    Bentsen predicted Congress and the White House would agreeon a fiscal 1988 budget that would raise between 18 and 22billion dlrs in new revenues.    The Texas senator said a series of excise taxes would beconsidered by Congress, including an extension of the telephonetax and new levies on liquor and cigarettes.    Bentsen said he supported an oil import fee, but that itwould not happen without President Reagan's support.    Darman called for a "top level negotiation" between the WhiteHouse and Congress on a budget compromise that would includeasset sales, some excise taxes, cuts in middle-classentitlement programs, "a reasonable, steady rate of growth indefense" and reform of the budget process. Reuter
FHLBB CHANGES SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES The Federal Home Loan Bank Boardadjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows:    MATURITY   NEW RATE  OLD RATE  MATURITY  30-140 days  5.00 pct  5.00 pct   30-179 days 141-160 days  6.13 pct  6.08 pct  180-200 days 161-182 days  5.00 pct  5.00 pct  201-274 days 183-200 days  6.17 pct  6.18 pct  275-290 days 201-360 days  5.00 pct  5.00 pct  291-360 days                        Reuter
FRENCH 13-WEEK T-BILL AVERAGE RATE RISES TO 7.39 PCT FROM 7.36 PCT -  Shr 15 cts vs 14 cts    Net 2,028,000 vs 1,879,000    Revs 32.1 mln vs 29.5 mln Reuter
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange 1.5 billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.    Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-1/2 pct whenthe Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves tothe banking system.    Most had expected the Fed to supply reserves directly viaSystem repurchase agreements or to add them indirectly throughtwo billion dlrs or more of customer repurchase agreements.Some believe the Fed is adding fewer reserves than are neededto keep upward pressure on rates and so help the dollar. Reuter
U.S. BANKS LIKELY TO LIFT PRIME RATES AGAIN SOON Major U.S. banks may lift primelending rates again within days due to recent increases intheir borrowing costs and speculation the Federal Reserve isnudging up interest rates to help the dollar, economists said.    In what was the first prime rate boost since mid-1984, mostbanks in early April lifted their rates a quarter point to7-3/4 pct, citing a reduced gap between the prime and their owncost of money. That spread has narrowed again.    "A prime rate increase could happen as soon as tonight,"said Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities Co International Inc.    Brusca said a quarter-point prime rate rise to eight pct isjustified because the spread between banks' cost of funds andthe prime rate has narrowed to less than three quarters of apercentage point.    He said that spread had averaged around 1.4 percentagepoints since last October until it fell below one point andtriggered the April prime rate rise at most banks.    "We could easily have another prime rate increase as soonas this week," said David Jones of Aubrey G. Lanston and Co.    "We've got a fairly good chance of a prime rate rise in thenear future," said Allan Leslie of Discount Corp.    "Based on the spread between the prime rate and fundingcosts, you would ordinarily see a prime rate increase now,"said Harold Nathan, economist at Wells Fargo Bank.    However, he said banks may be reluctant to lift the primebecause that would dampen already fairly weak business loandemand and because some are not sure the Fed will maintainrecent upward pressure on money market interest rates.    Nathan believes the Fed has let market pressures liftshort-term rates in recent days to help the ailing dollar. Hesaid "if there is widespread belief money market rates willstay high, a prime rate rise could occur at any time."    Fed officials have long expressed concern that too steep adollar drop could help rekindle U.S. inflation. As the dollarfell to a 40-year low against the yen Friday, currency traderssaid the Fed and other central banks supported the dollar.    In addition to buying dollars outright, another way tostabilize the U.S. currency would be for the Fed to push U.S.interest rates higher relative to overseas rates.    Based particularly on the Fed's reserve management actionson Friday and today, Nathan of Wells Fargo said "it has becomeclear that the Fed is not fully resisting upward rate pressurein the market. It is supplying fewer reserves than are needed."    Bank funding costs and other short and long-term interestrates rose sharply Friday and today on heightened speculationthat the Fed is gently firming monetary policy.    That was because the Fed supplied far fewer reserves in themarket than most economists had expected.    On Friday, the Fed added reserves indirectly and in smallamounts via one billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreementswith the Federal funds rate at which banks lend to one anotherhigh at 6-5/16 pct. With funds trading even higher at 6-1/2 pcttoday, the Fed arranged only a slightly larger 1.5 billion dlrround of customer repurchase agreements.    "The Fed's actions on Friday and today show that it isoffering only token resistance to upward funds rate pressures,"said Jones of Lanston.    "The Fed is focusing its policy attention mainly on theneed to defend the dollar," Jones said. He believes it ismerely shading policy toward restraint now, "but to have amajor impact on the dollar, the Fed will have to tighten policyovertly at some point."    Jones expects the Fed to foster higher market rates bybecoming more restrictive in supplying reserves and, withinfour to six weeks, to raise its discount rate from 5-1/2 pct.    Jones said a U.S. discount rate increase to six pct mightwell be accompanied by West German and Japanese rate cuts tofurther aid the dollar.    Given likely Fed policy firming, he said both the yield on30-year Treasury bonds (about 8.30 pct now) and the prime ratemay be at 8-1/2 pct at end-June and nine pct by year's end.    "The jury is still out on whether the Fed is tighteningpolicy to defend the dollar," said Leslie of Discount Corp. Hesaid tax-date pressures have been pushing up Fed funds lately.Leslie said Fed actions and reserve data once these pressuresabate will show whether or not it is firming policy.   Reuter
U.S. BILL AUCTION RATES AVERAGE 5.98, 6.08 PCT The U.S. Treasury said its weeklyauction of three-month bills produced an average rate of 5.98pct, with a 6.08 pct rate on six-month bills.    These rates compared with averages of 5.53 pct for thethree- and 5.63 pct for the six-month bills sold last week.    The bond-equivalent yield on three-month bills was 6.17pct. Accepted bids ranges from 5.92 to 5.99 pct and 60 pct ofthe bids at the high, or stopout rate, were taken. For sixmonths, the yield was 6.38 pct and the bids ranged from 5.98pct to 6.10 pct with 48 pct of the bids accepted.    The Treasury said it received 25.99 billion dlrs of bidsfor the three-month bills, including 1.2 billion dlrs innon-competitive bids from the public. It accepted 6.6 billiondlrs of bids, including 2.1 billion dlrs from the FederalReserve and 180 mln dlrs from foreign and internationalmonetary authorities.    Some 24.7 billion dlrs in bids for six-month bills werereceived, including 832 mln dlrs in non-competitives. TheTreasury accepted 6.6 billion dlrs, including 1.8 billion dlrsfrom the Fed and 1.2 billion dlrs from foreign andinternational authorities.    The average price for the three-month bills was 98.488 andprices ranged from 98.504 to 98.486.  The average price for thesix-months bills was 96.926, and prices ranged from 96.977 to96.916.    The average yield on the three-month bills was the highestsince 5.99 pct on June 30, 1986.  The average yield on thesix-month bills was the highest since 6.13 pct on June 23,1986. Reuter
BUDGET CHIEF MILLER WARNS FED ON INTEREST RATES White House Budget chief JamesMiller said he was concerned that the Federal Reserve might"overreact" to the decline in the value of the U.S. dollar byraising interest rates, a move he said could cause a recessionnext year.    "Our greatest danger is overreaction," Miller told newspaperreporters yesterday. "I'm concerned about the Fed'soverreaction. I'm concerned about what I see in recent datashowing a substantial fall in the money supply."    Edwin Dale, Miller's spokesman, said the remarks, publishedin the New York Times today, were accurate.    Miller said he was concerned the Fed might overreact tosignals of rising inflation by tightening credit -- a move hesaid could have "political consequences."    The White House budget chief appeared to be referring tothe effect an economic slowdown could have on the presidentialand congressional elections next year.    "My fear is that if we get into a recession we are in deepsoup, and there is no question about it," he said.    Miller said an economic slowdown could lead to lower taxrevenues and a widening of the budget deficit.    Miller's remarks reflected concern that the U.S. centralbank might feel compelled to tighten credit as a means ofbolstering the dollar.    Both Treasury Secretary James Baker and Federal ReserveBoard Chairman Paul Volcker recently have warned that furtherdeclines in the value of the U.S. dollar could jeopardizeglobal growth prospects.    U.S. officials have urged Japan and West Germany tostimulate economic growth in their countries -- a move thatcould boost U.S. exports and relieve trade protectionistpressures in the United States. Reuter
BUNDESBANK SETS NEW REPURCHASE TENDER The Bundesbank set a new tender for a28-day securities repurchase agreement, offering banksliquidity aid at a fixed bid rate of 3.80 pct, a central bankspokesman said.    Banks must make their bids by 1400 GMT tomorrow and fundsallocated will be credited to accounts tomorrow, April 22.Banks must repurchase securities pledged on May 20. REUTER
BELGIUM CUTS TREASURY CERTIFICATE RATES The Belgian National Bank said it cutits one, two and three month treasury certificate rateseffective immediately.    It said in a telex message the key three month rate wasreduced by 0.05 points to 7.25 pct, the two month rate by 0.10points to 7.20 pct and the one month rate by 0.15 points to7.15 pct.    The Bank last adjusted its short-term treasury certificaterates on April 3, when all three rates were cut by 0.10 points.    It has made regular small reductions in rates afterhoisting the three month rate 0.50 points to 7.90 pct and theother rates to eight pct on January 6 ahead of the realignmentof the European Monetary System.    The National Bank bought more than 7.91 billion francs offoreign currency in the week ended April 13, a National Bankspokesman said last week. Foreign exchange analysts noted thisreflects the current strength of the Belgian franc. REUTER
FED OPPOSES CREDIT CARD INTEREST RATE CEILINGS The Federal Reserve Board opposedpending legislation to establish ceilings on interest chargedby credit card companies.    "The Board does not believe it would be appropriate toimpose a federal ceiling on credit card rates," Fed governorMartha Seger told a Senate Banking Subcommittee.    "Among other things a Federal ceiling could have undesirableside effects in the form of reduced credit availability andcould lead to changes in non-rate credit card terms," shetestified. Reuter
FED'S ANGELL SAYS BOARD IN HARMONY ON RATES Federal Reserve Board Governor WayneAngell said the Reagan appointed majority on the board was notat odds with Chairman Paul Volcker on whether interest ratesshould rise to support the dollar.    "I would anticipate very little difference between thechairman's position on price-level stability - and on the viewof the dollar in foreign exchange markets - and my own," Angellsaid in an interview with the New York Times.    "And I would also see very little difference in (Governor)Manley Johnson's position and my own," he added.    The newspaper said Angell was speaking in response toinquiries concerning a report by syndicated columnists RowlandEvans and Robert Novak that Volcker was ready to raise rates todefend the dollar but that he was being thwarted by the fourReagan appointed members on the board.    Angell told the newspaper that there was no evidence ofdisagreement on the board and that "anyone who should suggest"there is one "might be reaching pretty far." Reuter
FED OPPOSES CREDIT CARD INTEREST RATE CEILINGS The Federal Reserve Board opposedpending legislation to establish ceilings on interest chargedby credit card companies.    "The Board does not believe it would be appropriate toimpose a federal ceiling on credit card rates," Fed governorMartha Seger told a Senate Banking Subcommittee.    "Among other things a Federal ceiling could have undesirableside effects in the form of reduced credit availability andcould lead to changes in non-rate credit card terms," shetestified. Reuter
CREATIVE MONETARY POLICY TO SPUR KUWAITI ECONOMY Kuwait, a major oil producer hit by lastyear's price slump, is leaning towards a more creative monetarypolicy to help spur its economy, banking sources said.    "There is a clear emphasis on encouraging the use of moneyin productive ventures, rather than having it all tied up ininterest bearing investments which have no direct productiveoutlet," one banker said.    Kuwait's Central Bank yesterday cut one key money marketrate and abandoned another which had been used since February1986 to direct inter-bank borrowing and lending costs.    The bank reduced to six pct from 6-1/2 pct the rate atwhich it will offer funds of one month to one year in theinter-bank market. This, in turn, affected retail rates.    The cut, the third this year, followed a major overhaul ofinterest rate policy last month which Central Bank GovernorSheikh Salem Abdul-Aziz al-Sabah said was designed to revivethe economy.    One banker said "There is growing flexibility, creativity,in interest rate policy, amid an awareness of the need todiversify the economy by stimulating the non-oil sector."    For the first time in nearly three years domestic interestrates are now significantly below those for the U.S. Dollar, afavourite haven for Gulf speculative and investor funds in thepast, banking sources said.    Despite uncertainties generated by the 6-1/2 year old Iran-Iraq war on Kuwait's northern doorstep, bankers play down theprospect of any significant capital flight.    The Kuwaiti dinar, whose value is set by the Central Bankand was fixed today at 0.27095/129 to the dollar, is strongernow than for several years.    Fears that the dollar may fall further will prompt secondthoughts among Kuwaiti investors prepared to consider switchingfunds into the U.S. Currency, the sources said.    "There is a distinct exchange rate risk," they added.    Bankers said the dollar slump hurt many investors behindthe last major capital outflow in 1984, encouraged then by 18pct U.S. Interest rates and the start of Iranian attacks onneutral shipping in the Gulf.    The Central Bank calculates its dinar exchange rate againsta basket of currencies. Bankers do not know the basket's exactmake-up but say it is weighted heavily in favour of the dollar.    Some bankers believe any strengthening of the dinar beyond0.27000 to the dollar might provoke investors into shiftingfunds into the U.S. Currency. "They may ask:When will the dollarbe so cheap again?" one said.    And with dinar interest rates now roughly one pct belowthose for the dollar, they say the Central Bank faces adelicate balancing role requiring further flexibility.    Bankers said the current, expansionary interest rate policyis only part of a broader attempt to encourage local investmentand strengthen the backbone of the economy.    They estimate the economy, measured in terms of GDP andallowing for inflation, shrank 19 pct in 1986 after an 8.1 pctcontraction the previous year.    Bankers also noted recent measures to stimulate stockmarket activity, capped today by sharp cuts in brokerage feesto make it cheaper for investors to trade. REUTER
JAPAN DOES NOT INTEND TO EASE CREDIT - OFFICIALS The Bank of Japan does not intend to easecredit policy further, bank officials told Reuters.    They were responding to rumours in the Japanese bond marketthat the central bank was planning to cut its 2.5 pct discountrate soon, possibly before Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasoneleaves for Washington on April 29.    Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita will be in Osaka,western Japan on April 27 and 28 for the annual meeting of theAsian Development Bank, making a rate cut announcement earlynext week a virtual impossibility, they said. April 29 is aholiday here. REUTER
NATIONAL MUTUAL CUTS AUSTRALIAN PRIME TO 17.75 PCT National Mutual Royal Bank Ltd saidit would cut its prime rate to 17.75 pct from 18.25, effectiveApril 27.    The cut follows a trend toward lower rates started lastmonth and accelerated by Westpac Banking Corp, which yesterdaycut its prime to 17.50 pct from 18.25 pct. Westpac's 17.50 pctis the lowest prevailing rate. REUTER
BANK OF SPAIN RAISES INTEREST RATES The Bank of Spain announced a one-pointrise in overnight call money rates to 16-5/8 pct, which acentral bank spokesman said was part of government efforts tocontrol money supply growth.    The increase came after yesterday's one-point rise andpushed interbank rates to 19 19-1/2 pct from 18-1/8 19 pct.    The M-4 money supply, liquid assets in public hands, thebroadest measure of money supply, rose 14.1 pct in the firstthree months compared with this year's eight pct target. Moneysupply growth was 11.4 pct last year. REUTER
JAPAN DOES NOT INTEND TO EASE CREDIT - OFFICIALS The Bank of Japan does not intend to easecredit policy further, bank officials told Reuters.    They were responding to rumours in the Japanese bond marketthat the central bank was planning to cut its 2.5 pct discountrate soon, possibly before Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasoneleaves for Washington on April 29.    Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita will be in Osaka,western Japan on April 27 and 28 for the annual meeting of theAsian Development Bank, making a rate cut announcement earlynext week a virtual impossibility, they said. April 29 is aholiday here. REUTER
BANKERS CONFIRM JAPAN LONG-TERM PRIME UNCHANGED Long-term bank sources confirmed theirbanks have decided to leave the current 5.2 pct long-term primerate unchanged.    The current rate has been in effect since March 28.    The bankers said the rate was unchanged because the fallingdollar and the bond market rally made it difficult to clarifythe current level of yen interest rates.    There had earlier this week been expectations of a 0.2point cut from today in response to the fall in the secondarymarket yield in five-year long-term bank debentures, butbankers said last night the rate would be unchanged. REUTER
BANK OF FINLAND EASES REFERENCE RATE RESTRICTIONS The Bank of Finland said it wasreducing restrictions on the use of money market rates asreference rates for loans.    The Bank would start quoting money market rates referred toas HELIBOR (Helsinki Interbank Offered Rate). Banks mayhenceforth use these as reference rates in their lending, itsaid.    From May 1 the banks would be allowed, without specialcentral bank approval, to use as a reference rate not only itsbase rate but also other Bank of Finland rates or the officialmoney market rate used in market transactions.    A derivative of these could also be used, the statementsaid. But housing loans would be excepted and their lendingrate would, as formerly, be linked directly or indirectly tothe Bank of Finland's base rate.    The new guidelines involve mainly two changes. Money marketrates in future would be used as reference rates for loans witha maturity of over five years and the introduction of a newreference rate would no longer require central bank approval.    The decision was made as a continuation of the centralbank's process of liberalisation, it said. REUTER
BARCLAYS SAYS PROSPECTS BRIGHT FOR UK ECONOMY Britain can look forward to fairlystrong economic growth, falling interest rates and firmSterling, Barclays Bank Plc chairman-elect John Quinton said.    "We should see a reasonable decline in interest rates inthe next few months, but not a great one and not a rapid one,"Quinton told a press luncheon.    He said that whereas the British economy is growing atabout three pct, he expects only "minor" growth for the westernindustrialized world as a whole. But, unless there is a majormove toward protectionism, there should be no need to worryabout a recession in the next two or three years.    Quinton said much will depend on the resolution of tradedisputed between the United States and Japan.    He said Tokyo, in resisting the appreciation of the yen,had been "holding back the laws of economics." But if thedollar has to fall further to reduce Japan's trade surplus, hesaid he hoped the fall would be slow rather than rapid.    Quinton said it will be difficult for the City of London tostave off the creation of a powerful securities industryregulatory body along the lines of the Securities and ExchangeCommission in the U.S., especially if there are more insidertrading scandals and if the Labour Party wins the next U.K.election. Reuter
HONG KONG BANKS LEAVE INTEREST RATES UNCHANGED The Hong Kong Association of Bankssaid it decided to leave interest rates unchanged at today'sregular weekly meeting.    Current rates are savings accounts and 24-hours two pct,seven-day call, one and two-weeks 2-1/4 pct, one and two months2-3/4 pct, three and six months 3-1/4 pct, nine months 3-1/2pct and 12 months four pct.    Prime rate is 6-1/2 pct. REUTER
U.S. CENTRAL BANKER OPPOSES FURTHER DOLLAR FALL New York Federal Reserve BankPresident Gerald Corrigan opposed a further fall in the valueof the dollar but refused to say whether U.S. Interest rateswould be raised to protect the currency.    "A further decline in the dollar or appreciation of the yenat this juncture I would regard as counterproductive," he told anews conference.    His comments echoed those made last week by U.S. TreasurySecretary James Baker, who also warned against a further dollarfall. The U.S. Currency plunged to a post-war low below 140 yenlast week, despite dollar-buying by a number of central banks.    Currency speculators and investors are convinced that afurther dollar fall is needed to help reduce the huge U.S.Trade deficit, dealers said. The only thing likely to help thedollar is seen as a rise in U.S. Interest rates.    Corrigan refused to say whether the U.S. Was ready to riskdamaging its economic recovery by raising interest rates.    The dollar"s sharp drop this month has also raised questionsabout the usefulness of recent meetings of the Group of Seven.But Corrigan said: "They have played a constructive role in sofar as the broad objective of facilitating a higher degree ofeconomic policy coordination." REUTER
SAUDI RIYAL DEPOSITS STEADY IN DULL MARKET Saudi riyal interbank deposits weremainly steady at yesterday"s higher levels in a market which sawlittle activity due to the European weekend, dealers said.    They said banks in the kingdom offered two and three monthdeposits 1/16 of a percentage point lower, but there were fewtakers.    Rates for short-dated and other fixed period funds werelittle changed following their sharp rise on Saturday broughton by higher eurodollar deposit rates.    Spot-next and one-week deposits were relatively unchangedat 6-3/4, 1/2 pct.    One-month deposits were steady at 6-3/4, 1/2 pct whilethree-month funds eased to 6-7/8, 5/8 pct from 6-15/16, 11/16.    Six-month deposits also declined marginally to 7-5/16,7-1/8 pct from quotes of 7-3/8, 1/8 at the close of trade onSaturday.    The spot riyal was steady at 3.7499/7504 to the dollar. REUTER
MALAYSIA MAY CUT BASE LENDING RATE IN JUNE Malaysia may cut its base lendingrate by 0.75 to one percentage point from a current 8.5 pct inJune to stimulate economic growth, Finance Minister DaimZainuddin said.    The last cut, of 0.5 pct, was effected by banks and financecompanies on April 1 following a Central Bank directive.    The lending rate has been declining in recent monthsbecause the Central Bank has injected more funds into theeconomy, Daim told an assembly of the dominant Malay-basedUnited Malays National Organisation party.    Daim, who is also the party's Treasurer General, saidMalaysia's gross domestic product growth in 1987 is likely toexceed the one pct forecast in his 1987 budget presented lastyear. He gave no details of the expected rise.    GDP growth in 1986 was 0.5 pct. REUTER
MIYAZAWA DOES NOT THINK DOLLAR IN FREEFALL Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawatold a parliamentary Upper House budget committee that he doesnot think the dollar is in a freefall.    He said concerted intervention is only a supplementarymeasure to moderate volatility in exchange rates and repeatedthat policy coordination among major industrial nations isnecessary. "We cannot expect currency stability only throughcoordinated market intervention," he said.    Miyazawa also told the committee the U.S. Has not called onJapan to cut its 2.5 pct discount rate.    Miyazawa said the government is not considering investingin U.S. Government bonds to help stabilize exchange rates. Thismatter has to be dealt with carefully because it involves thepublic's money and exchange rates are moving widely, he added.    The ministry will consider where to invest its funds whenexchange rates become stable, he said.    Asked if Japan is considering a request to the U.S. For itto raise its discount rate to stabilize exchange rates,Miyazawa said the U.S. Has not been able to take action nowbecause it has to maintain its economic growth. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN DEPUTY SAYS NO NEW MEASURES PLANNED The Bank of Japan's deputy governorYasushi Mieno told a parliamentary Upper House budget committeethat the central bank has no monetary measures other thanintervention planned to stabilize currency rates.    He also said the Bank of Japan is not considering a cut inits 2.5 pct discount rate.    Mieno said the central bank is determined to restorecurrency stability through intervention by the major industrialnations as recent exchange rate volatility stems fromspeculation. Economic fundamentals have not changed, he added. REUTER
UAE TO RECOGNISE CONTRACTUAL INTEREST RATES A top United Arab Emirates (UAE)banker said a new law would be introduced soon obliging courtsto recognise interest rates contracted between bank andborrower.    Sheikh Suroor bin Sultan al-Dhahiri, Chairman of Abu DhabiCommercial Bank, told reporters after the shareholders' meetinglast night the decree would make interest in debt cases payableat the contracted rate up to the day a case is filed in court.    Subsequently, interest would be charged at a maximum ninepct for personal and 12 pct for corporate loans, he said.    The law, if passed, would mark a breakthrough in solvingwhat UAE bankers say is one of their biggest problems,collecting bad debts in court.    Under current UAE law in all emirates, except Dubai, courtsrecognise only simple interest at a maximum nine and 12 pcteven if a loan was contracted at higher compounded rates.    The Central Bank said last year that roughly a quarter oftotal loans in the UAE banking system were non-performing.Sheikh Suroor also said a judicial committee set up to considerdebt cases would begin functioning within a month. REUTER
MIYAZAWA DOES NOT THINK DOLLAR IN FREEFALL Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawatold a parliamentary Upper House budget committee that he doesnot think the dollar is in a freefall.    He said concerted intervention is only a supplementarymeasure to moderate volatility in exchange rates and repeatedthat policy coordination among major industrial nations isnecessary. "We cannot expect currency stability only throughcoordinated market intervention," he said.    Miyazawa also told the committee the U.S. Has not called onJapan to cut its 2.5 pct discount rate.    Miyazawa said the government is not considering investingin U.S. Government bonds to help stabilize exchange rates. Thismatter has to be dealt with carefully because it involves thepublic's money and exchange rates are moving widely, he added.    The ministry will consider where to invest its funds whenexchange rates become stable, he said.    Asked if Japan is considering a request to the U.S. For itto raise its discount rate to stabilize exchange rates,Miyazawa said the U.S. Has not been able to take action nowbecause it has to maintain its economic growth. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN DEPUTY SAYS NO NEW MEASURES PLANNED The Bank of Japan's deputy governorYasushi Mieno told a parliamentary Upper House budget committeethat the central bank has no monetary measures other thanintervention planned to stabilize currency rates.    He also said the Bank of Japan is not considering a cut inits 2.5 pct discount rate.    Mieno said the central bank is determined to restorecurrency stability through intervention by the major industrialnations as recent exchange rate volatility stems fromspeculation. Economic fundamentals have not changed, he added. REUTER
FED'S CORRIGAN OPPOSES FURTHER DOLLAR FALL New York Federal Reserve BankPresident Gerald Corrigan opposed a further fall in the valueof the dollar but refused to say whether U.S. interest rateswould be raised to protect the currency.    "A further decline in the dollar or appreciation of the yenat this juncture I would regard as counterproductive," he told anews conference.    His comments echoed those made last week by U.S. TreasurySecretary James Baker, who also warned against a further dollarfall.    Currency speculators and investors are convinced that afurther dollar fall is needed to help reduce the huge U.S.trade deficit, dealers said, adding the only thing likely tohelp the dollar is seen as a rise in U.S. Interest rates.    Corrigan refused to say whether the U.S. was ready to riskdamaging its economic recovery by raising interest rates.    The dollar's sharp drop this month has also raisedquestions about the usefulness of recent meetings of the Groupof Seven. But Corrigan said: "They have played a constructiverole in so far as the broad objective of facilitating a higherdegree of economic policy coordination." Reuter
INDIAN BANKER SAYS RATES CUT AFFECTS PROFITABILITY The cut in the lending rates and otherchanges made in the interest rates will hit the profitabilityof many commercial banks in India, Indian Banks' Associationchairman M. N. Goiporia told a bankers' conference.    The changes were announced by the Reserve Bank of India onMarch 31 and became effective on April 1.    "Some of the latest credit policy measures such as reducedlending rates, raising the statutory liquidity ratio andrestructuring of deposit rates will pose a potential threat tocommercial banks' continuing higher profitability levels," hesaid.    Goiporia said most foreign and Indian commercial banksincluding those owned by the government have been makingprofits over the years, mainly due to better fund managementand the enlargement of the banks' capital base. He did notelaborate.    The Reserve Bank's new credit policy for commercial bankscut the maximum lending rate by one pct to 16.5 pct, raisedrates on deposits of two years by a half pct to nine pct and byone pct to 10 pct on deposits of more than two years. To cutexcess liquidity in the industry, the Reserve Bank raised thebanks' liquidity ratio by a half pct to 37.5 pct, immobilisingnearly five billion rupees of deposits, bankers said. REUTER
PRESSURE GROWS FOR U.S. ACTION TO AID DOLLAR Pressure is growing in the financialmarkets for the U.S. to take overt action to stabilize thedollar even though doubts linger that it has fallen far enoughto help redress world trade imbalances, economists and dealerssaid.    Some experts believe that a half-point increase in the U.S.discount rate, preferably in conjunction with rate cuts inTokyo and Bonn, would be enough to discourage sellers.    But many fear that more drastic action, such as a U.S.issue of yen-denominated Treasury bonds, may be needed.    Despite official warnings about the dangers of a furtherdollar decline and concerted central bank intervention, thedollar extended its recent sharp depreciation, touching a40-year low of 137.25 yen in Tokyo earlier today after closinghere on Friday at 139.30/40.    The impact on other financial markets was devastating.    In Tokyo, the stock market suffered its largest single daydecline; in London, gold bullion prices rose to four-year highsand in the U.S., long Treasury bond yields surged above 8.80pct and the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell more than 40points in hectic early trading.    "The problem now is linkage. This is not just a currencyproblem. It is affecting all the markets," said one seniortrader at a major U.S. bank.    Up until September of last year, international efforts toredress world trade imbalances appeared to working like adream; the dollar was falling in an orderly manner, worldinterest rates were tumbling and inflation was kept in check.    In recent months, however, this strategy has begun to showsigns of severe stress, with the U.S. imposition of punitivetariffs on Japan threatening to unravel this spirit ofcooperating and condemn the world to a damaging trade war.    "The markets fear that we have built up a momentum that isreally difficult to stop. A U.S. rate hike has become aninevitability," one currency dealer said.    "At this point, nothing short of a Fed discount rateincrease, ideally combined with further discount rate cuts byJapan and Germany, would seem capable of stabilizing thedollar," said David Jones of Aubrey G. Lanston and Co Inc.    Allen Sinai of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc predicted a 1/4to 1/2 point U.S. rate increase before May 19 and a rise inU.S. bank prime lending rates to eight pct from 7-3/4 pct inthe near future.    But many economists feared that any moderate U.S. rateincreases, which appear unlikely to be matched by rate cutsoverseas, would be too little, too late.    "They should have done this 10 days ago. It would have donethe trick then," said one currency analyst.    "If they do it now, it would be seen as a defensive measurenot an offensive one. It would show policy weakness notstrength," added one trader.    In addition, economists fear that a discount rate risemight place additional strain on a sluggish U.S. economy andtempt embattled debtor nations to retaliate.    A U.S. discount rate increase would also fuel theprotectionist fires in Washington, where the House is expectedto pass a protectionist trade bill, whatever compromisesPresident Reagan and Prime Minister Nakasone can come up withduring their summit later in the week.    "Politically, they can't really do it this week," said onecurrency analyst, pointing out that if it failed to stabilizethe dollar, it would only weaken the U.S. negotiating stance.    Even if the U.S. retains the upper hand, economists andtraders do not hold out high hopes for any major newinitiatives from this week's talks.    At best, the experts see some sort of accord whereby Japanwill agree to stimulate growth and open its domestic markets tooutsiders while the U.S. promises to lift its tariffs andsupport the Group of Seven dollar stabilization agreement.    But many fear that this may not be enough to assuage themarket's speculative selling fervor, which has now raised fearsof weak overseas interest at next week's quarterly U.S.Treasury refunding program.    Japanese and European investors have traditionally playedan active role in these auctions, which are expected to total28 to 29 billion dlrs.    Consequently, thoughts are turning to the possibility thatPresident Reagan may try to remove foreign investors' worriesabout currency risk by financing part of the U.S. budgetdeficit in yen or mark bonds, rather than dollars.    While similar action by former President Carter helped tostabilize the dollar in 1978, the White House is clearlyreluctant to take such a step, economists said.    This hesitance was amply shown last Friday when U.S.Treasury Secretary James Baker said, "there might well be somewho would view (yen-denominated bonds) as a lack of confidenceby the U.S. in its own currency."    Baker added, "therefore we don't think it's an appropriatething to do."    A foreign exchange analyst at a major Japanese bank hereshared Baker's doubts. "Dollar defending measures are veryunlikely. They will confirm the dollar's weak undertone andlead to further speculative dollar selling," he said.    Thus, it may be less destabilizing for the authorities tostop trying to fight the market's bearish sentiment.    In a recent lengthy report, economists at Morgan GuarantyTrust Co concluded, "the dollar should be left free to trade atwhatever level market forces produce." Reuter
LOWER MARK RATE SPECULATION NOT SHARED IN GERMANY Speculation abroad that theBundesbank will steer money market rates lower, opening thefor interest rate cuts around Europe, is not shared by manyeconomists and money market dealers within Germany.    Speculation has developed that the Bundesbank wouldengineer lower rates to take pressure off the dollar/mark.    A strong rise in U.S. Market rates this month, promptingspeculation the Fed would raise its 5-1/2 pct discount rate,has raised the question whether Germany and Japan would alsobroaden interest rate differentials to support the dollar.    The U.S.-Japanese trade dispute is the key to the interestrate outlook, money market dealers in Paris said.    Talks this week between Japanese Prime Minister YasuhiroNakasone and President Reagan, if successful, could takepressure off the dollar, dealers and economists said.    Short term interest rates would be likely to ease if thetrade dispute is solved and the dollar steadies, they said.    But if no solution is found, the Paris dealers said, arenewed dollar fall would put strains on the mark/French francrate and force the Bank of France to raise short-term rates.    The three-month U.S. Treasury bill rate rose to six pctthis week from 5.6 pct at the start of April, and the yield onthe 30-year benchmark treasury bonds rose this week in Tokyo toa 14-month high of 8.86 pct from 7.66 pct in late March.    The dollar stabilized today just below 1.80 marks and above140 yen, underpinned by higher U.S. Rates and the Fed discountrate speculation.    But most dealers expect it to weaken further, which wouldput pressure on the Bundesbank to ease interest rates.    Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said yesterdaythe U.S. Had requested Japan to cut short-term interest rates.    The Bank of Japan was making efforts to do this, he said,adding the U.S. Had not asked for a cut in Japan's 2.5 pctdiscount rate, a move which Bank of Japan Governor SatoshiSumita said was not under consideration.    A call for a German move came yesterday from Dutch centralbank president Wim Duisenberg, who said the Dutch central bankfavoured a cut in West German interest rates and would followsuit if it happened.    Citibank AG said in its April report that another expectedphase of dollar weakness would prompt the Bundesbank to cut keymoney market rates in the next three to six months.    The Bundesbank has set a fixed rate of 3.80 pct onrepurchase pacts since February, with call money trading around3.70 pct for much of April.    Phillips and Drew senior European economist Richard Reidsaid the Bundesbank would allow interest rates to ease further,either with a lower fixed rate tender, or a tender by interestrate, allowing the market to set the rate.    "I'm fairly confident we'll see lower rates," he said.    Reid said taking 30 basis points off the repurchase ratewould have little impact on the German economy or fundamentalexchange rates, but could change market currency perceptions.    "A cut in German rates wouldn't be bad for the dollar, but Ithink its effect would be limited in duration unless it wasaccompanied by other measures elsewhere," he said.    Money market dealers here noted the speculation abroad thatthe Bundesbank would push down repurchase rates, but said theBundesbank had little reason to cut rates further at themoment, despite the liquid market seen for most of this month.    The dealers said the Bundesbank was likely to move to aninterest rate tender for its repurchase pacts next month. Thatshould not be seen as a sign of easing monetary policy however,they said.    The Bundesbank would merely be experimenting with interestrate tenders, following the introduction of a new system tospeed up the tender process at the start of April, they said.    Reinhard Pohl, head of the monetary policy section at theDIW economic research institute in West Berlin, said theBundesbank would probably not cut rates on repurchase pacts.    "I don't think that if they cut the repurchase rate a littleit would stop a wave of (currency) speculation," he said. But asharp and sudden deterioration in the dollar could force theBundesbank to take some action, he said.    Pohl said the Bundesbank was concerned that a cut ininterest rates would accelerate excessive monetary growth.    Some Bundesbank officials have argued recently that themonetary overshoot was due to strong currency inflows ratherthan credit growth, and therefore a more appropriate responseto excessive money supply growth would be to cut rates, to makethe mark and mark investments less attractive.    Pohl said the Bundesbank was hoping that domestic investorswould switch funds parked in liquid short-term accounts, whichhave swollen central bank money stock, into securities, whichwould take them out of the Bundesbank's key monetary measure.    A cut in interest rates at this stage however would leadinvestors to assume that rates had bottomed out and the nextmove would be upwards. They would therefore hold off buyingbonds, leaving central bank money stock swollen.    There are so far no signs that German investors areswitching funds into long term securities as the Bundesbankhopes they will, Berliner Handels- und Frankfurter Bankeconomist Hermann Remsperger said.    But Phillips and Drew's Reid said prospects of lower ratesand a strong currency would attract foreign investors intoGerman bonds, which would in turn attract domestic investors.    Werner Rein, chief economist at Union Bank of Switzerlandin Zurich, said he thought it likely that interest rates wouldcontinue to drift lower in many European countries.    "The scope for lower rates is probably greatest in Britainbut more limited in West Germany, where we could see someconsolidation," he said. Switzerland could be forced to matchany cut in German rates to prevent the franc rising furtheragainst the mark, he said.    Currency dealers in London said another half-point cut inU.K. Bank base rates was likely in the next few weeks as thepound had shrugged off yesterday's cuts and was still rising. REUTER
Bundesbank's Schlesinger says no plan to cut discount rate-Nihon Keizai n Singapore Petroleum Co Pte Ltd willrevise pump prices of petrol from June 2, an official said.    Grade 97 octane with 0.15 gm/lead will be 96.8 cents/litreagainst 94 cents previously for 0.4 gm lead. Grade 92 octanewill be 90.6 cents against 87.6 previously.    SPC's price revision follows the Ministry of Trade andIndustry's move to liberalise petrol pricing by allowing oilcompanies to set their own pump prices.    New grades of petrol with lower lead content are sold inSingapore from today in line with the Ministry of Environment'sregulations. REUTER
BUNDESBANK REPORTED TO HAVE NO PLAN FOR RATE CUT Bundesbank Deputy President HelmutSchlesinger said the West German central bank had no plan tocut its three pct discount rate, Nihon Keizai newspaperreported.    The financial daily quoted Schlesinger as saying in aninterview that the bank would try to maintain current interestrate levels for the time being.    He also told the newspaper he saw no need for large-scaleintervention in the foreign exchange market because exchangerates are stable.     Earlier, Schlesinger told a press conference that theBundesbank would continue its policy of maintaining short-terminterest rates at a low level for currency stability.    He also said he was satisfied with the current dollar/markexchange rate but added that he was not certain if it was idealfor the West German economy. REUTER
WINDOW FOR BANK AID IN KUWAIT REMAINS SHUT The Kuwait Central Bank kept its windowfor funds to the domestic interbank deposit market shut asbanks returned from a four day holiday, dealers said.    The move drove short-term interest rates sharply higher,with overnight and tomorrow-next funds more than doubling fromlast Wednesday and hitting 20 pct.    There were few offers in a tight market and tradersscrambled for any available funds. One-month to one-yeardeposits were indicated one point higher at eight, seven pctbut there was little activity at the longer end of the market.    Bankers see the suspension of central bank aid as adeliberate move to drive up Kuwaiti dinar interest rates andstem a flow of funds out of the country, where marketnervousness is increasing over the growing tension in the Gulf.    The central bank's move has been combined with a steady cutin the dinar exchange rate.    Today's rate was reduced to 0.27939/73 to the dollar from0.27758/92 on Wednesday before the four day bank holiday thatcelebrated the end of the fasting month of Ramadan. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve is expected to addreserves to the U.S. banking system by arranging a round ofcustomer repurchase agreements during this morning'sintervention period, several economists said.    Some others, however, judged that the Fed has almostcompleted its reserve-adding requirement for the statementperiod ending on Wednesday and will not need to operate today.    Fed funds were trading at 6-11/16 pct, compared withFriday's average of 6.63 pct. Reuter
U.K. BANKERS CONSIDER NEW ECGD FINANCING PLAN Representatives of major U.K. Based banksare meeting here today to consider a new plan for reducing thecost of financing British exports guaranteed by the ExportCredits Guarantee Department (ECGD), senior banking sourcessaid.    The plan is being developed in conjunction with the ECGDand the Bank of England.    Neither the ECGD nor the Bank of England would comment onthe plan. However, bankers said one of the main points underdiscussion is a plan to refinance the bulk of the ECGD's mediumterm credit portfolio in the international capital markets.    The proposals involve introducing a set of interest marginson ECGD backed debt of 5/16 to 7/8 pct, depending on the sizeand maturity of the credit and the currency.    The banks are likely to push for a higher margin. Bankerssaid that while these rates would reduce a bank's return theywould still be more than those proposed about a year ago whenthe government attempted unsuccessfully to initiate anothercost reduction plan.    At the same time, the banks would be expected to allow theECGD to realise additional savings by refinancing existinggovernment backed credit in the capital markets.    On credits that are refinanced an original lender wouldreceive a residual margin of 7/16 pct for loans up to 10 mlnstg and 3/16 pct on larger transactions. REUTER
DUTCH OFFICIAL RATE CUT SEEN STILL LIKELY A cut of about half a percentage pointin Dutch official interest rates is still in prospect, althougheconomists said the timing would depend on Bundesbank moves.    Speculation has been rife that the Dutch Central Bank,encouraged by a strong guilder/mark relationship and widepremiums for Dutch money and capital market rates over German,might lower rates without the Bundesbank moving first.    Last month, the Central Bank lowered its special advancesrate to 5.1 pct from 5.25 pct after the Bundesbank dropped itsrepurchase tender rate to 3.55 pct from 3.8 pct.    That rate has remained in force, just holding above thefive pct official secured loans rate which governs commercialbank borrowings.    Given a strong guilder, a further fall in the West Germanrepo rate would trigger a lower special advances tariff,forcing an official Dutch rate cut, analysts said.    In February, when the Bundesbank cut its discount rate tothree pct from 3.5 pct, the Central Bank only lowered moneymarket rates and removed a surcharge over the secured loansrate on lending under its three month credit quota.    Since then, however, both the Central Bank and FinanceMinistry have made it clear they favour lower official rates.    In April, Central Bank President Wim Duisenberg said hewould follow any Bundesbank cut, and last week the FinanceMinistry expressed satisfaction when it raised 2.25 billionguilders with a six pct coupon state loan priced at 100.10 pctfor an effective yield of 5.98 pct, the lowest since 1965.    Technically, analysts said, there has to be a differencebetween the secured loans rate which applies to lending underthe credit quota, and the tariff on special advances which addextra liquidity to the money market.    Bank economists and dealers said a West German move tofurther lower the rate on securities repurchase pacts wouldresult in the Central Bank easing the special advance rate,provided the guilder/mark relationship permitted.    The Central Bank aims to keep the guilder stable around itsparity value within the European Monetary System of 112.673guilders per 100 marks.    Today, foreign exchange buying pushed the mark up 10guilder cents to 112.705 guilders per 100 at the fix, a levelthat would not permit a change in the interest ratedifferential between West Germany and the Netherlands, dealerssaid.    An economist at ABN Bank said he expected West German andDutch interest rates to ease in the short term. However, hesaid new wage agreements in West Germany had raised inflationexpectations which would put upward pressure on interest ratesin the longer term.    In the Netherlands, the inflation outlook for 1987 is nil,or even negative, while the latest official economic forecastspoint to a falling rate of economic growth.    "It will depend on the outcome of collective wage agreementnegotiations here whether there could be cost push inflation,"the ABN economist said.    He said Dutch money supply growth, which ran at 3.4 pct inJanuary, could also contribute to some inflation.    At Amro Bank, a leading analyst said inflation could run totwo pct next year. The bank expects Dutch capital market rates,currently averaging around 6.1 pct, to stop easing in thesecond half of this year and stabilize around 5.6 pct.    Analysts said an official rate cut could trigger a buyingspree on the bond market which would bring yields down,probably only temporarily, while money rates could fall belowfive pct.    Currently, all periods are traded at 5.12 to 5.25 pct inthe money market. REUTER
Tokyo - Bundesbank's Schlesinger sees no reason to lower intere Bundesbank vice president HelmutSchlesinger said he saw no reason to lower interest rates now.    With money supply growth showing no sign of slowing down inMay and the dollar stable or even rising against the mark,Schlesinger told Reuters that he was not convinced that afurther cut in interest rates was needed.    The economy is picking up, after contracting by aseasonally adjusted 1/2 to one pct in the first quarter fromthe fourth, he added. "We may have an increase in gnp startingin the second quarter," he said in an interview.    Concerned by the first quarter downturn, the U.S. Has beenpressing West Germany to pump up its economy and boost itsimports, either through fiscal or monetary policy.    Schlesinger said the contraction in the first quarter wasmainly due to adverse weather conditions, just as occured in1986. Year-on-year growth was thus about two pct.    He estimated that economic growth for the year as a wholewould probably be between one and two pct.   "It is not a question of monetary conditions if domesticdemand does not grow strongly," he said, noting that interestrates are at historically low levels and funds are ample.    Schlesinger said he saw no signs that central bank moneystock growth was slowing down from its recent year-on-year paceof 7-1/2 to eight pct, well above the Bundesbank's three to sixpct target.    He said the target could still be achieved but much willdepend on the direction of long-term capital flows. Heavyinflows, particularly in January around the time of the EMSrevaluation, boosted domestic money supply.    "There is still a certain hope that the net inflow offoreign money can be diminished or can even be a little bitreversed," Schlesinger said.    A major reason for the inflows was the market's convictionthat the mark was headed higher. "As we can see from the market,expectations for a further revaluation of the deutschemark havediminished," Schlesinger said.    The recent widening of interest rate differentials, thefact that the dollar has fallen sharply in a very short periodand an improvement in real trade balances have all combinedtowards stabilizing the dollar, he said.    Asked if central banks might act to prevent a sharp dollarrise, as the U.S. Did in March when the dollar rose above 1.87marks, he said this would depend on the circumstances.    At midday here, the dollar stood at 1.8340/45 marks.    "Central banks are always in contact about thesefluctuations but I cannot give any answer how they would react,"Schelsinger said.    "One has to look at how it (the market) is moving," he said,adding, "It is not only our own case, it is also the Americancase."    He said that the West German export industry has been hithard by the dollar's sharp fall and would probably like to seesome correction now. "But it wouldn't be good to have short-termfluctuations," he said. "Let us wait and see."    "It is mainly the strength of the (dollar) fall in a veryshort period which was a little bit of a shock, than the level(of rates) as such," Schlesinger said.    The sharp rise of the mark, coupled with weak prices ofsuch key commodities as oil, had a favourable impact on WestGerman inflation down year.    Although there have recently been signs of inflationpicking up, he said that this was due to changes in keycommodity prices. The underlying inflation rate this year wouldbe unchanged, at about one to 1-1/2 pct, he said.    Schlesinger said the problem of rapid money supply growthwas longer term, in that the economy was building up thepotential for a possible eventual resurgence of inflation.    The above-target growth of money supply over the past 16months had prompted some discussion of the usefulness oftargets themselves, a matter which might be taken up at themid-year meeting of the Bundesbank's council, Schlesigner said.    But he added: "I don't see any great pressure to go awayfrom it." REUTER
Nakasone, Sumita agree discount rate cut not appropriate now - central bank The World Bank's policies prevent it fromlending money for the transfer of land from landowners to thelandless, but it can help finance development of thePhilippines' proposed land reform program, a bank officialsaid.    "The World Bank by its established policies cannot use itsresources to finance the transfer of assets from one group toanother. Our mandate is to finance investment-relatedactivities," Rolando Arrivillaga, the bank's residentrepresentative in the Philippines, told Reuters in aninterview.    Arrivillaga said he wanted to clarify part of a report by aWorld Bank mission that came in March to review the land reformprogram and which said the bank would not be able to financecompensation payments for the transfer of land.    He said the Philippine government had never asked the bankto finance land transfers, and the bank's position should notbe taken to mean that it ruled out any lending for the program.    "Clearly in the case of land reform the question of landtransfer by definition is transferring assets from the landedto the landless," Arrivillaga said. "However, the bank as aninstitution can finance the development aspects of the program."    "We will deal with the part of the program that deals withhow to put the land to effective use once it has beentransferred and how to make the on-farm investments that areneeded to attain the goal of improving the income level of thebeneficiaries," Arrivillaga said.    "I wouldn't be surprised if other multilateral institutionsare faced with similar constraints," he said.    President Corazon Aquino's spokesman said last week thatshe was committed to launching the program, which limits landholdings to seven hectares, by using her sweeping powers ofrule by decree before a new Congress convenes in July.    Presidential spokesman Teodoro Benigno said the land reformprogram, estimated to cost about 44 billion pesos, would beimplemented in four phases and benefit 2.64 mln farmers.    Benigno said the first two phases would complete thetransfer of rice and corn lands and abandoned farmland as wellas the transfer of land sequestered, expropriated or foreclosedby the government and would cover 1.15 mln hectares.    But Aquino would not decree the redistribution of largesugar, banana and coconut plantations, leaving it to theCongress to work out the details, Benigno said.    Arrivillaga said bilateral aid donors, who form part of aconsultative group led by the World Bank, might be prepared tofinance the land transfers.    "I don't think there are fast and easy rules as to howinternational sources of finance would behave in a situationlike this, because land reform by its very nature requires richfinancing to be able to carry out the reform in a way equitableto both the landowner and the beneficiary," he said.    Arrivillaga said the first priority for the governmentwould be to tap domestic sources of financing for the landtransfer, but external assistance could be brought in if therewere gaps.    "In such a fundamental reform the test of the willingness ofthe government is how it confronts the domestic resourcerequirement," Arrivillaga said. "Multilateral agencies by theirvery nature are lenders of last resort. It means they have tobe convinced that the government prioritises the program."    He said the World Bank had financed developmental costsunder an earlier land reform program launched by formerPresident Ferdinand Marcos in 1972, and such aid had beenchannelled through the Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP).    The LBP is the main implementing agency under Aquino'sprogram.    "If asked to do so again and the program is designed toimprove the standard of living of the poor then we wouldcertainly be prepared to consider (lending)," Arrivillaga said.    He said the tendency in such programs was to exaggerate thecosts by presenting ten-year perspectives in a one-yearcontext.    Arrivillaga said the government could solve most of itsfinancing problems by devising effective instruments tocompensate landowners.    Finance Secretary Jaime Ongpin has said landowners arelikely to be paid 10 pct in cash and the rest in 10-year bondswith 10 pct of their face value redeemable each year.    Arrivillaga said any instruments used to compensatelandowners had to be freely tradable at near face value andadded: "The challenge is to devise a system of deferred paymentsthat is as good as cash."    He said the international financing community was watchingthe Philippine experiment with great interest.    "They are going to be an interesting model for many othercountries because they opened a dialogue on the reforms toevery sector of the population and even internationalinstitutions," he said. "I think they'll be on a very solid basewhen they make the decision to launch the reforms." REUTER
NAKASONE, SUMITA AGREE RATE CUT NOT APPROPRIATE Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone todayagreed with Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita that afurther cut in the discount rate was not appropriate atpresent, central bank sources said.    They told Reuters the two discussed the subject at aroutine meeting.    Sumita told Nakasone he did not feel a rate cut wasappropriate and Nakasone expressed his understanding, thesources said.    Currency dealers have speculated that Japan and WestGermany might come under pressure at next week's Venice summitto cut interest rates to boost their economies.    Nakasone, but not Sumita, is due to attend the summit. REUTER
U.K. RESERVES LIFT HOPES OF FURTHER BASE RATE CUT The record 4.9 billion dlrs rise in U.K.Reserves in May to a total 34.7 billion has lifted hopes for afurther cut in bank base lending rates after the June 11general election, market analysts said.    Sterling would have risen on the much better than expectednumber but for market nerves about the poll outcome, they said.    But the weight of foreign currency and gold reserves nowavailable to the authorities to support the pound should curbany market tendency to panic if U.K. Opinion polls show theruling Conservative Party's lead slipping, they added.    "We have been intervening to a very much greater extent thanwe have done hitherto," Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawsonsaid at a news conference today, commenting on the news of therecord reserves rise.    He put the U.K. Intervention in the context of the Louvreaccord between leading industrial nations to stabilise thedollar, partly through direct intervention on foreignexchanges. "We have been playing a very full part ourselves," hesaid.    But market analysts see the recent upward pressure onsterling, and consequent need for official sales to damp downits rise, more in the light of local factors.    Steven Bell, chief economist at Morgan Grenfell Securities,said that corporate money has been flowing back into Britainamid hopes of another Conservative government, after fears lastautumn of a Labour election victory sent it flooding out.    U.K. Portfolio investment is also returning, while foreignbuyers see U.K. Growth propects and high bond yields asattractive. They will be strong buyers of U.K. Assets, notablyequities, once the election is out of the way, Bell said.    Analysts see this pressure as the main hope for lowerinterest rates, as the government is expected to try to reversethe loss of export competitiveness caused by a strong pound.    Today, however, the pound hardly moved on the reservesnews, dipping on its trade-weighted index against a basket ofcurrencies from 73.1 pct of its 1975 value at 1000 GMT to 73.0pct at 1100 GMT, half an hour after the figures were released.    "The market doesn't want to do anything because of theelection," commented an economist at a big U.S. Investment bank.    Several dealers and analysts added that market forecasts ofa rise in reserves of between one and three billion dlrs hadoverestimated the amount of pound sales that were likely tohave been disguised by swap arrangements or transactions on theforward market.    The market also seemed to have overestimated the amount ofsterling the Bank of England bought at the end of May to smooththe pound's sudden downturn, while some of the interventionreported in May probably occurred in April, they said.    The key three months interbank money market rates easedabout 1/8 point, reflecting cautious hopes that the downtrendin U.K. Interest rates will be revived following the reservesnews, analysts said.    Government bond prices initially firmed, but the market wasmuted as traders worried about the funding implications ofanother huge rise in reserves, they added.    Morgan Grenfell's Bell forecast a half point base rate cutfrom the current nine pct level soon after the election, solong as poll projections of another Conservative victory proveaccurate, with another half point later.    Justin Silverton, equity economist at Credit SuisseBuckmaster and Moore, said a full point reduction might bepossible. "Sterling will be held down by interest rate cuts infuture, rather than this active intervention," he predicted.    Kevin Boakes of Greenwell Montagu Gilt-Edged cautionedagainst over-optimistic forecasts, but agreed a half point cutlooked likely.    A cut before the election has been virtually ruled out.    "The Bank (of England) is both worried about the politicalproblem of cutting rates during an election campaign ... Andhas signalled some worry about broad money (growth)," said RobinMarshall, chief U.K. Economist at Chase Manhattan Securities.    He said the 10 billion dlrs increase in total reserves inthe past seven months may foreshadow full U.K. Entry into theEuropean Monetary System.    But Bell said the authorities would like to see another 10or 15 billion dlrs in the reserves before joining, if they didso. But, unlike many analysts, he doubted the U.K. Will go in. REUTER
FED NOT EXPECTED TO TAKE MONEY MARKET ACTION The Federal Reserve is not expected tointervene in the government securities market to add or drainreserves at its usual intervention time this morning,economists said.    With the Federal funds rate trading comfortably at  6-9/16pct, down from yesterday's 6.74 pct average, economists saidthe Fed did not need to take reserve management action today. Reuter
BUNDESBANK CREDIT POLICY CHANGES UNLIKELY The Bundesbank is unlikely to changecredit policies when its central bank council meets on Thursdayfor its last session before the Venice summit, bankingeconomists and money market dealers said.    The Bundesbank steered money market rates lower last monthby cutting the rate on its security repurchase pacts, and isunlikely to cap this move with a cut in leading interest ratesin the near future, they said.    The council will meet in Saarbruecken, and the meeting willbe followed by a news conference at around 1030 GMT.    But Bundesbank officials noted that a news conference wasusually called when the council meets outside Frankfurt, anddid not necessarily herald any policy moves.    Bundesbank Vice-President Helmut Schlesinger said todaythere was no reason to cut interest rates because money supplygrowth had shown no signs of slowing in May and the dollar wasstable against the mark.    Schlesinger told Reuters in Tokyo, where the Bundesbank hasopened a representative office, that the West German economywas now picking up after contracting by a seasonally adjusted1/2 to one pct in the first quarter.    Money market dealers said call money was likely to hold ina 3.50/70 pct range for most of this month, after theBundesbank switched last month to tenders by interest rate at aminimum bid rate of 3.50 pct, allocating funds at 3.55 pct.    "They have set this signal and indicated they could maybelower market rates even further, but not with the discount orLombard," Winfried Hutmann, chief economist of Schroeder,Munchmeyer, Hengst Investment GmbH said.    Werner Chrobok, managing partner at Bethmann Bank, saidGerman rates were among the lowest in industrial countries andaround historical lows for West Germany.    A further cut in rates would have little impact on theeconomy as banks are in any case reporting slack credit demand,with companies swimming in liquidity, Chrobok said.    The Bundesbank would therefore be reluctant to make a moveon interest rates, when this would be better held in reserve."The Bundesbank is frightened of using up its powder," he said.    A cut in the discount or Lombard rates, to bring them inline with the new structure of money market rates since lastmonth, would have little practical significance, dealers said.    The Bundesbank could therefore act on these if it wanted adiplomatic gesture before next week's Venice summit.    But Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl has often made itclear in the past he opposes such gestures as mere "eyewash."    Economists said it was really up to the Bonn government tocut taxes, rather than for the Bundesbank to ease monetarypolicy, to meet pressure on West Germany at the Venice summit.    But with Bonn struggling to finance already announced taxcuts and falling tax revenue widening the federal budgetdeficit, it is hard to see how Bonn could cut taxes further.    "The Bonn government will be in a very weak position inVenice because they can't risk increasing the deficit further,"said Schroeder, Muenchmeyer, Hengst's Hutmann.    Bethmann's Chrobok said if anything is to happen beforeVenice, it must be in fiscal rather than monetary policy. "But Idon't expect any convincing measures," he said.    Money market dealers noted that call money continued tonormalize today, falling to 3.60/70 pct from 3.75/85 yesterdayand as much as five pct on Friday when it was pushed up bymonth-end distortions.    Call money could come under upwards pressure later thismonth because of a major round of tax payments by banks onbehalf of customers, starting in the week beginning June 15.Two public holidays that week could also distort the market.    Dealers said they expected the Bundesbank to allocate fundstomorrow in the latest repurchase pact at an unchanged 3.55pct, after setting an unchanged minimum bid rate of 3.50 pct,and to fully replace the 5.5 billion marks in an outgoing pact.    But dealers said it was possible the Bundesbank wouldallocate funds at 3.6 pct rather than 3.55. That would notrepresent a tightening of policy, however.    Because the Bundesbank scales down bids which it allocatesat the minimum accepted rate, some banks may try to get a fullallocation by bidding heavily at 3.6 pct, dealers said.    On another issue, Poehl has said the Bundesbank is likelyto lift restrictions on private use of the European CurrencyUnit (ECU) at one of its meetings soon.    Saarbruecken would be a suitable place for an announcementon this gesture to European unity, as it is the capital of theSaarland bordering France, and was twice under Frenchoccupation this century.    But dealers said an ECU announcement was unlikely to comethis week, as a number of technical and legal matters had stillto be resolved, for instance how German ECU accounts would betreated for minimum reserve purposes. REUTER
U.S. HOUSE SPEAKER WRIGHT CONCERNED of INTEREST RATE RISE UNDER G U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer NigelLawson said Paul Volcker has been an outstanding Chairman ofthe Federal Reserve and he will be greatly missed, a spokesmanfor the U.K. Treasury said.    The spokesman was relaying Lawson's reaction to news thatVolcker will not be seeking a third term as chairman. Lawson iscampaigning in London ahead of the June 11 general election.    Lawson also said he thought Alan Greenspan an excellentchoice as Volcker's successor and that he sees no reason toexpect a change in policy. Reuter
VOLCKER DEPARTURE REVIVES DLR, INFLATION FEARS Paul Volcker's decision not to go for athird term as Federal Reserve Chairman and the nomination ofAlan Greenspan to replace him have revived deep concerns aboutthe U.S.' ability to prevent a further dollar decline and stemrising inflation, financial market analysts said.    Although Greenspan is known as a committed anti-inflationfighter in the Volcker mould, doubts are already surfacing inthe U.S. financial markets as to whether he has enoughpolitical clout and monetary experience to wage a toughcampaign against inflation over the next year or two.    "The critical issue is how (Greenspan) will deal withinflation," said Stephen Axilrod, Vice Chairman of NikkoSecurities Co International Inc and former staff director formonetary and financial policy at the Fed.    "A lot of questions have been raised by Volcker'sdeparture. Until Greenspan answers them, the markets willremain nervous," added Stephen Slifer, money market economistat Shearson Lehman Government Securities Inc.    This morning's announcement sent the dollar into atailspin, which was halted only by concerted central bankintervention in the open currency market. Reuter
KAUFMAN SAYS GREENSPAN NOMINATION BAD FOR BONDS Henry Kaufman, managing director ofSalomon Brothers Inc, said the nomination of economist AlanGreenspan to replace Federal Reserve Board Chairman PaulVolcker is bearish in the near term for the fixed income andcurrency markets.    "The basic direction of interest rates is not changed. Thefundamental direction of interest rates continues to be upward,interrupted by intermittent rallies," Kaufman said in astatement. He said the implication for equity markets inneutral to bullish.    Kaufman said, "Unlike Paul Volcker, who entered the officeof the Federal Reserve chairman with strong credibility bothdomestically and internationally, Mr Greenspan will have todemonstrate both his competence and policy independence beforehe can gain full confidence of the financial markets."    Greenspan is most knowledgeable on the behavior of the U.S.economy, while his professional skills in the internationalarea are much more limited, Kaufman noted.    "Consequently, although he is well known abroad, his viewson issues such as the Less Developed Country Debt may initiallycarry less weight than have those of Mr Volcker." Reuter
WESTPAC DROPS NEW ZEALAND INDICATOR LENDING RATE Westpac Banking Corp <WSTP.S> said itis cutting its indicator lending rate to 22 pct from 23 pcteffective from June 15.    Westpac said in a statement various other lending rates arealso being revised downwards. The Westpac move follows baserate drops by other New Zealand trading banks recently. <Bankof New Zealand's> base rate drops to 22 pct from 23 on June 16and <National Bank of New Zealand Ltd's> rate falls to 21.50pct from 23 on June 15. The Australia and New Zealand BankingGroup Ltd <ANZA.S> rate remains at 23 pct. Reuter
BUNDESBANK MAY LIFT VETO ON ECU USE - SOURCES The Bundesbank could announce todaythat it will lift its veto on the private holding of EuropeanCurrency Unit (ECU) liabilities, banking sources said.    But this would probably be the only significant news fromtoday's council session, brought forward from its usualThursday date because of the Corpus Christi holiday here. TheBundesbank is not expected to change credit policy.    The sources said Bundesbank officials had been working outtechnical and legal problems with the ECU since the subject wasdiscussed in the presence of federal finance minister GerhardStoltenberg on May 7.    With the primary internal work on the ECU completed,approval from the 18-member central bank council was nowvirtually a mere formality, the sources said.    Bundesbank president Karl Otto Poehl, chairing today'smeeting, said in mid-May the remaining ECU restrictions werelikely to be lifted, allowing individuals to open ECU accountsand incur liabilities previously mainly executed through theLuxembourg subsidiaries of the major German banks.    The sources said the ECU liberalisation was mainly designedto show that West Germany was prepared to play its part in theeffort to attain European Community monetary unity by 1992. REUTER
CITIBANK LOWERS AUSTRALIAN PRIME RATE TO 16 PCT Citibank Ltd said it would lower itsAustralian prime rate to 16 pct from 16.5, effective tomorrow.    The new rate, if unmatched by other banks, will be thelowest among Australian trading banks. Other primes range from16.25 to 17.5 pct.    Australian prime rates have now retreated from a recentpeak of 19 pct in October in line with declining money marketlevels. Citibank said its reduction reflected the decline. REUTER
COMMONWEALTH BANK CUTS AUSTRALIAN SPLIT PRIME The Commonwealth Bank of Australia saidit will lower its reference rate for loans to 15.75 pct from16.25 pct and its overdraft reference rate to 16.25 pct from16.75, effective June 24.    Bank officials have said the bank regards the overdraftreference rate, based on short-term rate trends, as its keyprime lending rate to corporate customers. The loan referencerate is based on longer term trends.    The bank is the latest to cut prime rates in recent daysfollowing a continuing decline in market rates. Other primerates now range from 16 pct to 17.5 pct. REUTER
BELGIUM CUTS TREASURY CERTIFICATE RATES The Belgian National Bank said it cutone, two, and three month treasury certificate rates, all by0.10 points, effective immediately.    The cuts take the one month rate to 6.75 pct, the two monthrate to 6.80 pct and the key three month rate to 6.85 pct, thecentral bank said in a telex.    A National Bank spokesman said the modest cut was madeafter a decline in domestic money market rates yesterday, andwas not expected to be followed by a cut in the 7.60 pctdiscount rate.    The short-term treasury certificate rates, and especiallythe three-month rate, have been the National Bank's mainmonetary policy instrument for the last two years.    The discount rate has been the market's penalty rate ratherthan a guiding rate since 1985, and its advances are currentlylittle used as liquidity is ample, bank economists said.    The bank last cut one- to three-month certificate rates onJune 5, also by 0.10 points. REUTER
CITIBANK LOWERS AUSTRALIAN PRIME RATE TO 16 PCT Citibank Ltd said it would lower itsAustralian prime rate to 16 pct from 16.5, effective tomorrow.    The new rate, if unmatched by other banks, will be thelowest among Australian trading banks. Other primes range from16.25 to 17.5 pct.    Australian prime rates have now retreated from a recentpeak of 19 pct in October in line with declining money marketlevels. Citibank said its reduction reflected the decline. REUTER
COMMONWEALTH BANK CUTS AUSTRALIAN SPLIT PRIME The Commonwealth Bank of Australia saidit will lower its reference rate for loans to 15.75 pct from16.25 pct and its overdraft reference rate to 16.25 pct from16.75, effective June 24.    Bank officials have said the bank regards the overdraftreference rate, based on short-term rate trends, as its keyprime lending rate to corporate customers. The loan referencerate is based on longer term trends.    The bank is the latest to cut prime rates in recent daysfollowing a continuing decline in market rates. Other primerates now range from 16 pct to 17.5 pct. REUTER
NAT WEST CUTS MORTGAGE RATE FOR NEW BORROWERS National Westminster Bank Plc <NWBL.L>announced a 0.75 pct reduction in the mortgage interest rateapplicable to new mortgages taken out from June 19, 1987.    The new rate is 10.5 pct (APR - Annual Percentage Rate -11.2 pct including fees for normal repayment mortgages, and11.1 pct including fees for endowment and pension mortgages).    A spokesman for Nat West said the position for existingmortgages is being kept under active review in the light ofmarket conditions, and an announcement will be made as soon aspossible. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES The Federal Reserve will enter thegovernment securities market to supply reserves via either alarge round of customer repurchase agreements or by overnightor possibly four-day system repurchases, economists said.    They said the Fed has a fairly large add need and is likelyto face the most reserve dislocations early in the newstatement period started today as corporate tax payments swellTreasury balances at the Fed.    Fed funds hovered at 6-3/4 pct after averaging 6.80 pctyesterday. Reuter
FED SAYS IT SETS TWO BILLION DLRS OF CUSTOMER RE Becor Western Inc said itsreconvened shareholders meeting has been adjourned to 1000 CDTJune 30.    The company had previously announced plans to again adjournthe meeting following receipt of a renewed offer from LynchCorp <LGL> yesterday.    The meeting was originally convened on June four whenshareholders approved the sale of Becor's Western Gear Corpsubsidiary before adjourning. The remaining matter to bepresented is the proposed acquisition of Becor by BCWAcquisition Inc, now one of four offers for the company./ Reuter
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered thegovernment securities market to supply temporary reservesindirectly via two billion dlrs of customer repurchaseagreements, a spokesman for the New York Fed said.    Fed funds were trading at 6-3/4 pct when the Fed beganits action. Reuter
CANADA BANK RATE RISES TO 8.59 PCT Canada's bank rate rose marginally to8.59 pct from 8.58 pct last week, Bank of Canada said.    The bank rate is set one-quarter percentage point above theaverage yield on the weekly issue of 91-day treasury bills.This week's yield was 8.34 pct, compared with the previousweek's 8.33 pct.    Tenders were accepted for 2.20 billion dlrs of 91-day billsat an average price of 97.963 dlrs against 97.965 dlrs lastweek.    The 1.20 billion dlrs of 182-day bills were priced at anaverage 95.852 dlrs against 95.779 dlrs last week, to yield anaverage 8.68 pct against 8.84 pct last week.    The 500 mln dlrs of 364-day bills were priced at an average91.712 dlrs against 91.529 dlrs last week, to yield an average9.06 pct against 9.28 pct last week.    Tenders will be received next week for 2.20 billion dlrs of91-day bills, 1.20 billion dlrs of 182-day bills and 500 mlndlrs of 364-day bills. Reuter
ANZ BANKING GROUP SAYS IT WILL CUT PRIME RATE  The Australia and New Zealand BankingGroup Ltd <ANZA.S> said it will cut its prime rate to 16.00 pctfrom 16.50, effective June 22.    The cut takes the ANZ's prime to the lower end of the rangeof prime rates being offered by Australian trading banks. Thehighest rate is 17.50 pct.    The cut follows announcements of cuts yesterday by<Citibank Ltd> to 16.00 pct from 16.5, effective today, and<Commonwealth Bank of Australia> to 15.75 pct from 16.25,effective June 24. REUTER
 Top discount rate at U.K. Bill tender rises to 8. Cargo handling companies said theywere hiring twice the usual number of dockers to offset anintermittent strike in Spanish ports.    Spanish dockers began a nine-day strike on Wednesday inwhich they only work alternate hours in protest at governmentplans to partially privatize port services. Reuter
U.K. CENTRAL BANK WARNS OF EXCESSIVE RATE CUTS Bank of England governor RobinLeigh-Pemberton said lowering interest rates too fast couldjeopardise recent economic achievements in the U.K.    In remarks prepared for delivery to businessmen inBirmingham, he said prospective returns on real investment aremore favourable, relative to those on financial assets, thanfor a good number of years.    "It would surely be foolish to put that favourableconjuncture at risk by lowering interest rates prematurely orexcessively," he said.    "We might enjoy a short-term boost to activity, but at therisk of a damaging return to the uncertainty and acrimony ofhigh inflation," he added.    Leigh-Pemberton said he recognised there are some who wouldargue that interest rates are still too high and deterinvestment in industry.    "But we should not forget that less than a year ago we wereintervening to support sterling and had some temporarydifficulty in persuading the markets that a one pct increase inbase rates, to 11 pct, was a sufficient tightening of policy atthe time," he added. Base rate is currently nine pct. REUTER
U.K. LENDERS OFFER MORE FIXED RATE MORTGAGES More U.K. Lenders are offering homebuyersfixed interest rate mortgages under which the borrower makesthe same monthly payment no matter what happens to otherinterest rates.    And with mortgage rates now at their lowest levels inyears, the loans have been snapped up by eager home buyerstrying to lock into cheap money.    The decision to offer fixed rate loans, industry officialssaid, reflects the increasingly competitive nature of the homemortgage business.    While fixed rate mortgages are uncommon in the U.K., Theywere the mainstay of the business in the U.S. Up until only afew years ago.    But in the early 1980s interest rates soared. U.S. Lenders,mostly savings and loan associations, were earning rates as lowas three pct on 30 year fixed rate mortgages they held in theirportfolios but had to pay depositors rates as high as 15 pct toinduce them to retain their accounts.    As a result hundreds of institutions collapsed or wereforced to merge. The survivors decided to offer mortgages whoserates would move in line with the cost of funds.    "We very much have the example of the U.S. Thrifts in mind,"said a spokesman for Abbey National Building Society,explaining why his institution, for the time being, is onlyoffering variable rate mortgages.    The rash of advertising to solicit new business has helpedhomebuyers to become even choosier about loans and lendersconcede they are being forced to undercut each other stillmore.    Sharp cuts on variable rate mortgages announced earlierthis week by the nation's two largest building societies and byNational Westminster Bank Plc reflect growing competition fornew business, officials at all three institutions said.    The fixed rate mortgages on offer carry interest rates evenbelow those on the variable rate loans.    "Of course they are less profitable than other (variablerate) mortgages," said a spokesman for Midland Bank Plc, whichearlier this year said it earmarked 500 mln dlrs for fixed ratenew mortgage loans.    But he said the bank is willing to offer less profitableloans because, "It was just another way to attract people to ourmortgage product."    Trustee Savings Bank Plc (TSB) was offering five year fixedrate mortgages at 9.9 pct earlier this year.    The 100 mln stg that TSB set aside for the loans wasexhausted within just a few days, according to a spokeswoman.    "Everybody loves an under 10 pct mortgage," she said, notingthat within five days the bank loaned the equivalent of 25 pctof its 1986 volume.    In short, the appeal of fixed rate mortgages is that theyoffer an opportunity to gamble on the direction of interestrates. If interest rates fall after the mortgage is made thelender is earning an above average return on assets.    But if interest rates rise it is the homebuyer who has wonthe benefit of cheap money.    Household Mortgage Co had planned to offer a 25 year fixedrate mortgage after the June 11 elections on the assumptionthat a Conservative Party victory would help money market ratesfall further, according to Duncan Young, managing director.    Young explained that the company had planned to protectitself against the chance of rising interest rates by buying acomplicated hedging instrument.    But money market rates have risen contrary to expectationsand the company has shelved its plans for the time being. Hesaid money market rates were too high to arrange both themortgages and hedge profitably.    However, he said that when the Household Mortgage Co doesmake fixed rate mortgages it is likely to securitise them. Thismeans bundling different mortgages together to resemble a bondand selling them to an investor.    For technical reasons securitisation is simpler and moreefficient with fixed rate rather than with floating ratemortgages. In the U.S., Where fixed rate mortgages are popularagain, securitisation has provided the bulk of mortgage moneyover the past few years. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO ARRANGE SYSTEM REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve is likely to addtemporary reserves to the banking system this morning byexecuting system repurchase agreements, economists said.    The Fed faces a need to add a large volume of reserves thisstatement period to offset a drain caused by rising Treasurybalances at the Fed after the June 15 tax date.    Most economists are predicting over-the-weekend systemrepurchases. But some, who see a smaller adding requirement,are forecasting a less aggressive combination of three- andsix-day repos. Fed funds were trading at 6-3/4 pct, close toyesterday's 6.81 pct average. Reuter
FED SETS SIX-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASES,  Canon Inc of Japan said Canonof Virginia Inc has opened a 26 mln dlr 289,000 square footplant in Newport News, Va.    The company said the plant will initially make 700 to 1,000Canon dual-color copiers a month, and other business equipmentlines including laser beam printers and electronic typewritersmay be phased in later. Reuter
FED SETS SIX-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered thegovernment securities market to arrange six-day repurchaseagreements for system account, a spokeswoman for the New YorkFed said.    Fed funds were trading at 6-3/4 pct at the time of thedirect injection of temporary reserves, dealers said.    Economists had expected three- or six-day repurchasesbecause the Fed needs to add a large volume of reserves thisstatement period. Reuter
UPTREND REMAINS INTACT FOR DEBT FUTURES The six basis point rise of the pastmonth in U.S. debt futures may be extended next week by aseries of U.S. economic reports, analysts said, as long as thedollar holds firm.    "Interest rates have declined by approximately 50 basispoints over the last month, largely over indications thatinflation is not as high as people had feared and the narrowingU.S. trade balance, in nominal terms," Samuel Kahan, chieffinancial economist with Kleinwort Benson GovernmentSecurities, said.    Kahan said recent government reports have shown strength inthe economy during the first quarter, but his concern iswhether the U.S. economy will sustain that strength in thelonger term.    Weak U.S. economic growth could hurt the dollar, which hasbecome more important to the direction of debt futures than thebeneficial impact on interest rates of a sluggish economy.    The median trade expectations for Tuesday's U.S. ConsumerPrice Index and Durable Goods reports are up 0.4 pct and down1.5 pct, respectively.    Meanwhile, the eight billion dlr drop in the M-1 moneysupply announced this week was "surprising, much larger thanexpected," according to Kahan. "Unless quickly reversed," sucha trend "will ensure that June M-1 growth will be negative,"Kahan said.    Taken in conjunction with M-2 and M-3 aggregates whichKahan said have "slowed to a crawl, below Federal Reserve Boardannual targets," the consequences could be a hint of economicweakness down the road, he said.    Based on chart formations, T-bond futures may be poised forfurther gains, although the advance has been slowed recently,analysts said.    September T-bonds "are up almost six points since about May18," Merrill Lynch debt analyst Jim Duggan noted. Septemberbond futures climbed from the low of 87 a month ago to over 93in mid-June, Duggan said.    While follow-through buying has aided the advance so far,and bouts of short covering have prohibited a slide throughchart support, the rally in September T-bonds has been thwartedabove the 93 level.    "The 93 level is formidable resistance and must be takenout before this activity is anything other than a trading rangemarket," Carroll McEntee and McGinley Futures debt analystBrian Singer said.    The dollar remains the key fundamental factor, and the U.S.currency has made little headway of late, analysts said.    "The critical variable remaining in the market is the valueof the dollar," Kahan said.    Additional influences next week will be possibledevelopments ahead of an OPEC members meeting, and the impactand size of the U.S. budget deficit, "although these will notbe in the forefront of the market early next week," Kahan said.    In looking ahead to the U.S. Treasury mini-refundingauctions of 24.25 billion in T-notes on Tuesday, Wednesday andThursday, Singer said the market will likely greet the resultswith little excitement. However, a successful auction couldprove to be a turning point, depending on prevailing marketpsychology. Reuter
 HK SHANGHAI BANK, STANDARD CHARTERED BANK RAI Qatar will today take over the franchise ofCable and Wireless Plc (CAWL.L) in the emirate through thenewly-created Qatar General Telecommunications Corporation(QTELC).    Cable and Wireless, which has operated in Qatar since 1951,will second expert staff and provide technical and computerservices under agreements signed with QTELC.    Cable and Wireless manager Colin Davies told Reuters"Basically we have been here in a franchise situation for thelast 36 years and the government has now decided they want tohave a bigger role and that is, of course, a sovereign right." REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN DETERMINED TO KEEP EASY MONEY POLICY The Bank of Japan bought 100 billion yenin certificates of deposit (CDs) via repurchase agreementstoday to show its determination to maintain an easy moneypolicy, central bank officials said.    "Today's CD buying operation was designed to seek anannouncement effect, in which we would reassure the market ofthe fact that we have not changed our policy stance," a seniorcentral bank official told Reuters.    The bank also bought 400 billion yen in two-monthcommercial bills to smooth out tight credit conditions in theinterbank market today, the officials said.    The central bank was concerned about growing marketexpectations of higher interest rates, which were in partresponsible for the recent plunge in stock and yen bond prices,the officials said.    But money traders said the market generally shrugged offthe bank's CD operation because it was small and at a rate farbelow prevailing market rates. The rate on the key three-monthCDs in the primary market was 4.08/00 pct, while the bank's bidwas 3.75 pct, they said.    The bank's bill buying operation also had little impactbecause it was regarded as a routine operation, they said.    The money traders said they regarded the central bank's CDbuying operation as simply a gesture to live up to Japan'spledge to guide interest rates lower and stimulate the economy.    "We did not expect the central bank to ease its credit gripany further," a bank manager said, adding that the prevailingmarket expectation of higher rates will remain.    "If this is the case, the three-month CD rate will stayabove four pct for the time being," he said. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 1,200 BILLION YEN IN BILLS The Bank of Japan will tomorrow sell 1,200billion yen in bills from its holdings to help absorb aprojected money market surplus of 2,100 billion, money markettraders said.    Of the total, 800 billion yen will yield 3.6004 pct onsales from money houses to banks and securities houses in34-day repurchase agreements maturing on August 3.    The other 200 billion yen will yield 3.6003 pct in 43-dayrepurchase accords maturing on August 12.    The remaining 200 billion yen will yield 3.6503 pct in50-day repurchase agreements maturing on August 19.    The repurchase agreement yields compare with the 3.5625 pctone-month commercial bill discount rate today and 3.6250 pct ontwo-month bills.    They attributed the projected surplus mainly to 1,900billion yen of government tax allocations to local governmentsand public bodies. REUTER
UAE CENTRAL BANK CD YIELDS UNCHANGED Yields on certificates of deposit (CDs)issued today by the United Arab Emirates central bank wereunchanged from those on last Monday's offer, the bank said.    The one month yield was set at last week's 6-3/4 pct, whiletwo and three month CDs also remained unchanged at 6-13/16 pct.The six month yield was set at seven pct. REUTER
BANK OF FRANCE CUTS INTERVENTION RATE TO 7-1/2  Top-level talks last week between theEuropean Community (EC) and the United States failed to resolvea dispute over pasta which may provoke new trade frictions nextmonth, diplomatic sources said.    The U.S. Insists the EC complies with what it regards as anunambiguous ruling from the world trade body GATT anddismantles an export subsidy system which has led to Italytaking an increasing share of the U.S. Pasta market.    The sources said the EC, which currently provides subsidiesof around 16 cents a pound, offered a compromise in last week'stalks in Brussels but that this was rejected by the U.S.    U.S. Assistant Special Trade Representative Jim Murphy hasreturned to Washington ahead of a theoretical July 1 deadlinefor agreement, set last August when the two sides resolved arelated dispute over EC restrictions on U.S. Citrus imports.    The diplomatic sources said the citrus issue could bereopened if the pasta dispute was not solved quickly. It wasalso possible the U.S. Would reimpose a 40 pct tariff on ECpasta, lifted when the citrus row was settled.    But the two sides may agree to extend the deadline for afew days as EC Commissioners Willy de Clercq and FransAndriessen are due to visit Washington from July 7 to 10. REUTER
BANK OF FRANCE CUTS SEVEN-DAY REPURCHASE RATE  The coupon on the 100 mln dlr, five year,equity warrant eurobond for Nicherei Corp has been set at theindicated 1-3/8 pct, lead manager Nikko Securities Co (Europe)Ltd said.    The exercise price was set at 974 yen per sharerepresenting a premium of 2.53 pct over today's closing pricein Tokyo. The foreign exchange rate was set at 147.45 yen tothe dollar.    A 50 mln dlr, seven year, deal for Nichirei will be pricedlater this morning by lead manager Yamaichi International(Europe) Ltd. REUTER
POEHL SPEAKS AGAINST GERMAN INTEREST RATE CUT Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl saidWest Germany would be badly advised to lower interest rates andthat he believed the economy would continue to recover after asix-month lull.    Asked by the newspaper Bild am Sonntag if lower interestrates could boost the domestic economy, Poehl said: "We would bebadly advised if we forced further interest rate cuts.    "This could, under certain circumstances, release newinflationary fears which would then be more likely to lead tohigher interest rates," he added.    Poehl said Germany had practically no growth in the pastsix months because of the mark's surge and the cold winter.    "But since April, statistics clearly show that the economyfinds itself on a course of growth," he said. "I expect thisdevelopment to continue in the coming months."    Asked about his expectations of a U.S.-European Communitytrade war, Poehl said such an event would be disastrous.    "For this reason we in Europe must avoid everything used byprotectionist forces in the U.S. As pretexts," he added. "Thisincludes...Eliminating existing restrictions in the EC as faras possible. Protectionism is not found only in the U.S." Reuter
FED SETS TWO-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASES,  Cyclops Corp said shareholdersapproved a previously announced merger of the company with asubsidiary of dixons Group PLC.    It said Dixons held about 83 pct of Cyclops stock followinga tender offer and other purchases earlier in the year.    With the completion of the transaction, Dixons will proceedto pay 95 dlrs a share to the remaining Cyclops shareholders. Reuter
FED SETS TWO-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered thegovernment securities market to arrange two-day repurchaseagreements for system account, a spokesman for the New York Fedsaid.    Federal funds were trading at 6-3/4 pct at the time of thedirect injection of temporary reserves, in line with Friday's6.72 pct average. Reuter
U.S. TO END NETHERLANDS ANTILLES TAX TREATY The Treasury Department said itnotified the Netherlands that it was terminating the 1948income tax treaty as it applies to the Netherlands Antilles andAruba.    The termination is effective January 1, 1988, the Treasurysaid in a two-sentence announcement.    The Treasury decided to end the treaty after negotiationsbetween the United States and the Netherlands over the pasteight years had failed to reach an accord, a Treasury spokesmansaid.    The decision means the sale by U.S. parent companies ofEurobonds through Netherlands Antilles subsidiaries will nolonger be free of the 30 pct U.S. withholding tax, thespokesman said.    Terminating the tax treaty with the Netherlands Antilles may cause bond issuers to call in the bonds early. Most havematurities of 10 years or less and were issued before 1984, thespokesman said.    He said the Treasury did not expect the action to have anadverse effect on U.S. issuers of the bonds because the generaldecline in interest rates means they will be able to refinanceat lower interest rates.    However, the holders of the bonds presumably will be facedwith lower yields. Reuter
INTEREST RATES HURT U.S. MAY HOUSING SALES Sales of new single-family homestumbled 14.9 pct in May from April levels because of highermortgage interest rates, analysts said.    "There should be another month or two of very weak new homesales but with interest rates stabilizing, sale of new homesshould become more stable by mid-summer," said economistLawrence Chimerine of Wharton Econometrics Inc.    The drop in May, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of616,000 units, was the largest since January 1982, the CommerceDepartment said.    Interest rates on conventional mortgages bottomed out atabout 9.08 pct in March and rose to about 10.7 pct in April,according to Stephen Roach, economist at Morgan Stanley.    The effect was to freeze some potential new homebuyers outof the market, he and others said.    "The rates moved very suddenly and were certainlyunexpected by homebuyers," said Cynthia Latta, an economistwith Data Resources. "They were so startled, they wanted tohold back and see what would happen."    The drop in sales of new single-family home sales wassharper than expected, some economists said. "We fully expecteda decline but the extent was more than we anticipated," saidJames Christian, chief economist for the U.S. League of SavingsInstitutions.    Christian said there was a sharp rise in May in sales ofexisting homes, which are generally less expensive than newhomes.    Latta of Data Resources said strong sales of newcondominiums in the Northeast and on the West Coast werereflected in sales of existing but not new homes.    Christian of the U.S. League of Savings Institutions said,"Underlying housing demand remains strong. I think the marketis going to stabilize and give us a good second half."    Others were less optimistic, however.    "We clearly won't have a boom (in new home sales) but Idon't think this is the start of a collapse in single-familyhousing," said Chimerine of Wharton.    Eugene Sherman, chief economist of the Federal Home LoanBank of New York, said, "The lower sales level will bemaintained for awhile until there is another change in rates.There won't be much specific improvement in coming months." Reuter
AQUINO SAYS MANILA WATCHING INTEREST RATES CLOSELY President Corazon Aquino said thePhilippines was closely monitoring interest rates in the wakeof Monday's record drop on Wall Street and steep declines inManila and other Asian stock markets.    "We will monitor these developments closely and willcontinue to hope that they do not precipitate large declines ineconomic activity around the world," Aquino told a meeting of 13major Philippine business groups.    "The Philippines, as a trading country in the world economy,depends on the continued health and growth of both the worldeconomy and the world trading system," she said.    The Manila Stock Exchange composite index plunged 105.49points or 11.79 pct by the midday close to 789.54, depressed bythe record 508 point fall of the Dow Jones industrial averageon Monday.    "The Philippines, in addition, as a large borrower nation,is affected by developments in interest rate levels around theworld and will carefully monitor the impact of thesedevelopments on interest rates, on gold and on commodityprices," Aquino said.    "We welcome the statements from world leaders that urge calmin the present difficult situation," she added. REUTER
 Poehl says German and international interest rate rises are cause for An Iranian shuttle tanker reportedspotting a floating mine in the central Gulf on Tuesday about50 miles west of Lavan Island, regional shipping sources said.    The Khark III, owned by the National Iranian Tanker Co,gave the position of the mine as 27 degrees 14 minutes north,52.06 east.    There was no indication of measures being taken against themine, which is in Iranian territorial waters. REUTER
POEHL SAYS RATE RISES ARE CAUSE FOR CONCERN Rises in West German and internationalinterest rates are a cause for concern and the Bundesbank hasno interest in higher capital market rates, BundesbankPresident Karl Otto Poehl said.    "We consider the interest rate increase that has occurredhere and internationally to be a problem and cause for concern,"Poehl told an investment conference.    "I would like to stress that the Bundesbank has no interestin higher capital market rates," he said.    Shortly after Poehl spoke, the Bundesbank announced atender for a securities repurchase pact at a fixed rate of 3.80pct.    Previous tenders over the last month by interest rate haveseen the allocation rate on these facilities rise to 3.85 pctat last week's pact from 3.60 on the last fixed-rate tender inlate September.    The Bundesbank's reduction of the key allocation rate to3.80 from 3.85 pct was heralded Monday by repeated injectionsof money market liquidity at between 3.70 and 3.80 pct.    These moves to cap interest rates followed a meetingbetween Poehl, Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and U.S.Treasury Secretary James Baker Monday in Frankfurt.    Officials said afterwards the three men had reaffirmedtheir commitment to the Louvre accord on currency stability.    Over the weekend, criticism by Baker of the tightening inWest German monetary policy had prompted a sharp fall of thedollar on speculation that Louvre cooperation had ended.    But the dollar rallied on news of Monday's meeting innervous trading to trade above 1.79 marks Tuesday.    Poehl said that the recent rise in interest rates was notdue to central bank policy, but to markets' expectations, andcurrency developments.    Commenting on the inflationary expectations, Poehl said "Youhave to get to the root of the problem, you have to pursue apolicy which reveals that there are no grounds for such fears." The inflationary fears were unjustified and exaggerated, hesaid.    Poehl rebuffed recent U.S. Criticism of West Germany,saying the Bundesbank had made a substantial contribution tointernational cooperation in interest and monetary policy.    The Bundesbank has tolerated an overshooting of its moneysupply target, arousing criticism from other quarters, he said.    "Today we still have lower interest rates than at the end of1986... Quite the contrary of other countries, where interestrates have risen substantially more," Poehl said.    This had to be taken into account when considering recentrises in repurchase pact allocation rates, which were due torising international money market rates that had spilled overinto the German market, he said.    Poehl expressed surprise that financial markets had so farignored improvements in the U.S. Deficits.    "The adjustment process in the U.S. Trade balance isdefinitely underway," he said, noting that this was not sonoticeable in absolute figures.    The spectacular improvement in the budget deficit had alsoattracted little attention, he said. REUTER
CHEMICAL <CHL>, MARINE MIDLAND <MM> CUT PRIME Chemical Bank and Marine Midland BanksInc said they are cutting their prime lending rate to 9-1/4 pctfrom 9-3/4 pct, reversing an increase that they announced justlast week.    The reduction is effective immediately.    No other major U.S. bank had followed the lead of Chemicaland Marine Midland, preferring to keep their prime rates at9-1/4 pct while they waited to see what course money marketrates would take.    Following Monday's record fall in Wall Street stock prices,money market rates fell sharply on Tuesday as investorsploughed proceeds into short-term instruments and the FederalReserve said it is prepared to provide liquidity to support theeconomy and the financial system.    Eurodollar deposit rates in London fell by as much as 9/16percentage point, Treasury bill rates fell by as much as half apoint (after falling between 59 and 84 basis points on Monday),and the Fed funds rate dropped to 7-1/4 pct from Monday'saverage of 7.61 pct. Speculation even surfaced of a discountrate cut to calm the markets, dealers said. Reuter
U.K. CREDIT POLICY SEEN STEADY, DESPITE BANK DATA An unexpectedly heavy 4.4 billion stgsurge in U.K. September sterling bank lending is unlikely tonudge the Bank of England towards tightening monetary policy aslong as sterling remains in its present robust state,economists said.    An acute crisis of confidence in equity markets over thepast two days will in any case subdue personal consumer creditdemand which has largely been behind growth in lending.    "In the normal course of events the markets would have beenextremely worried about that figure," noted Peter Spencer, U.K.Economist with Credit Suisse First Boston.    After an initial dip in reaction to the bank lending data,which compared won stg August rise, U.K.Government bonds (gilts) soared as investors continued to fleefrom plummetting equities into the relative security ofgovernment securities.    Equity markets dropped sharply on the news, touching aday's low of 1,766.7 on the FTSE 100 index after the data,before staging a recovery. Sterling held its buoyant tonethroughout.    U.K. Money market rates, in a similarly calm response,resumed the slightly easier trend of earlier in the morningafter little more than a token blip as the figures came out.    Noting that such a huge rise in credit extended by bankswould under other circumstances have prompted market fears of arise in clearing bank base rates from the current 10 pct, "Withthe financial markets doing what they're doing, that's the lastthing the Bank of England would want to do," Spencer said.    "The monetary situation is clearly very bad but as long assterling is firm, the authorities are unlikely to put rates up,"said Kevin Boakes, chief U.K. Economist at Greenwell MontaguGilt Edged. Boakes pointed to a rise in the narrow moneymeasure M0 to 5.2 pct year-on-year from August's 4.5 pctgrowth, which he said must cause some concern at the Treasury.    But "The fact that overall broad money growth has sloweddown is a rather encouraging sign," noted Paul Temperton, U.K.Economist with Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. He pointed to afall in the year-on-year growth rate of the M3 broad moneyaggregate to 19.5 pct in September from August's 22 pct.    It was concern about credit growth which prompted the Bankof England to engineer a one point rise in U.K. Bank base ratesto 10 pct in early August, caution endorsed subsequently bynews of a massive 4.9 billion stg July rise in bank lending.    Temperton noted that a particular focus of bank worry inthat period had been the behaviour of U.K. Asset markets.    Housing and equities were the key two asset markets ininfluencing consumer behaviour, he said.    In the light of the precipitous falls on U.K. Equitymarkets in the past few days, "There will almost certainly be astraightforward impact on consumer spending and on retailsales," Temperton said.    "Almost certainly we can look forward to slower growth inconsumer borrowing if the equity shakeout continues," he added.    "I think the stock market has decided that the bank lendingfigure is a thing of the past...We are talking about a veryserious panic and a flight to quality," Spencer said.    A U.K. Treasury official said that it was important to lookat all the monetary information, not just the bank lending,adding that monetary aggregates were growing much more slowlythan bank lending.    Senior banking sources noted that the surge in bank lendingwas evidence of the continuing recent trend of fairly heavypersonal sector borrowing.    Figures from the Banking Information Service showedpersonal sector lending by U.K. Clearing banks rose by 1.66billion stg in September after a 978 mln stg August rise. Muchof the rise reflected quarterly interest payments. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER RPS The Federal Reserve is expected to enterthe government securities market to add reserves via customerrepurchase agreements, economists said.    They expected the amount to total around 1.5 billion to twobillion dlrs.    Economists added that the low rate on federal fundsindicates the Fed is unlikely to add funds agressively throughovernight system repurchases, unless it feels the need to calmvolatile financial markets.    Federal funds were trading at 7-1/8 pct, down fromyesterday's average of 7.61 pct. Reuter
 Bank of France says it leaves intervention rate unchanged at 7 Shr 1.11 dlrs vs 59 cts    Net 42.6 mln vs 22.2 mln    Sales 531.8 mln vs 407.4 mln    Nine mths    Shr 2.45 dlrs vs 1.27 dlrs    Net 93.7 mln vs 48.1 mln    Sales 1.44 billion vs 1.12 billion Reuter
FIRST REPUBLIC BANK DALLAS CUTS PRIME RATE TO 9.25 PCT FROM 9.75 PCT, EFFECTI Mellon Bank Corp said a number ofactions taken in the third quarter including an eight pctreduction in its staff, are expected to improve its earningspotential.    The company, which had posted a net loss of 626 mln dlrs inthe first six months of the year, today reported earnings of 16mln dlrs or 47 cts per share compared with net of 53 mln dlrsor 1.78 dlrs in the third quarter 1986.    The company also said it had raised 420 mln dlrs in capitalin the third quarter and that its eight pct staff reductionwill reduce staff expense in future periods.    Reuter
BAKER SEEN WINNING GERMAN INTEREST RATES BATTLE The United States appears to have won atransatlantic battle by forcing the Bundesbank to trim interestrates, European economists said.    But they added Washington set the stakes high by testingthe limits of the Louvre accord while global stock markets wereplunging.    West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and U.S.Treasury Secretary James Baker reaffirmed their commitment tocurrency stability at a secret meeting yesterday in Frankfurt,according to official statements released late Monday.    Only 13 hours after the statements were released, theBundesbank reduced short-term interest rates by offering banksliquidity at a fixed bid rate of 3.80 pct, down from a 3.85 pctfacility rate offered last week.    While the two ministers were meeting with Bundesbankpresident Karl Otto Poehl, the central bank had also addedmoney market liquidity repeatedly, signalling it did not want astrong rise in the tender allocation rate on Tuesday.     "It's round one to the Americans, " said Richard Reid,senior European economist for brokers UBS/Philips and Drew inLondon.    But Reid added, "We shouldn't forget that it has taken oneof the biggest stock market crashes in decades to get the WestGermans to cut their security repurchase rate by a 0.05percentage point."    Over the weekend, criticism by Baker of earlier tighteningof West German monetary policy led to a sharp dollar fall andfuelled speculation that the Louvre accord was no longer valid.    Six leading industrial nations agreed under February'sLouvre Accord to stabilise currencies and coordinate monetarypolicies. It has since been reaffirmed by the Group of Seven -the US, Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada.    The Frankfurt meeting on Monday soothed currency marketsand the dollar gained over two pfennigs in after hours tradingin New York. At the Frankfurt fixing on Tuesday, the dollar wasquoted at 1.7918 marks compared with 1.7740 on Monday.    Guenther Aschoff, chief economist at DeutscheGenossenschaftbank in Frankfurt said massive declines on worldstock markets had been the main reason for the fall in WestGerman short-term interest rates on Tuesday.    "The Bundesbank wanted to set a marker after stock marketlosses... That was the responsible thing to do and if it fitswith Baker's wishes, then all the better," he said.    No central bank wants to let interest rates rise, and theBundesbank had been forced to put its rates up following risesin the U.S., Aschoff said.    Poehl told a conference in Frankfurt on Tuesday the centralbank has no interest in higher capital market rates and hethought the global rate increase was a cause for concern.    Giles Keating, economist with Credit Suisse First BostonLtd in London said "The cautious Bundesbank has beaten a retreatand Baker has won a battle...But he hasn't won the war as thesecurity repurchase rate is still 20 points higher than it wasbefore the IMF meeting last month in Washington."    Before the IMF meeting, when the Louvre Accord wasreaffirmed, the Bundesbank was offering money market liquidityat 3.60 pct, Keating noted.    Economists said the United States now appeared to haveagreed to play by the rules of the Louvre Accord and supportthe dollar in return for the German action on interest rates.    Any further sharp decline of the dollar would hinderWashington's efforts to reduce its trade deficit, Stoltenbergtold a news conference on Tuesday. He added he would not ruleout central banks of leading industrial countries interveningon exchange markets to defend the dollar's value.    Deutsche Genossenschaftbank's Aschoff stressed WestGermany's heavy dependence on exports and the need for currencystability. In addition, both the U.S. And West German centralbanks were keen to avoid a dollar slide which would force themto again spend vast sums intervening to support the dollar. REUTER
LAWSON SAYS UK INTEREST RATE PROSPECTS UNCHANGED U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer NigelLawson said the collapse of British share prices this week heldno implication so far for domestic interest rates.    He said in a television interview that "there is nothing inthe events of the past few days to increase the upward pressureon (U.K.) interest rates."    Sterling has so far stayed solid during the crisis, backedby strong economic fundamentals and by 10 pct bank base lendingrates, analysts said. Lawson's comments followed anotherfrantic day in London's financial center, where British sharesclosed 12.2 pct down on the day. Reuter
STOLTENBERG SAYS CRITICISM NOT "ONE-WAY STREET" Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said hewas surprised by recent criticism of West German economicpolicies voiced by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker butadded that the criticism was not purely one-sided.    Stoltenberg told the West German Trade and IndustryAssociation (DIHT) that before a meeting with Baker on Monday,"There had been surprising notes of criticism (from the UnitedStates)." He added. "Criticism is not a one-way street."    He did not elaborate, but Bonn has often called on the U.S.To reduce its federal budget deficit.    Over the weekend Baker had criticised West German economicpolicies, saying that rises in domestic interest rates herewere not in the spirit of last February's Louvre pact tostabilise currencies.    Stoltenberg told the DIHT that his meeting on Monday withBaker had resolved differences between the two countries.    At a news conference earlier on Tuesday Stoltenberg haddeclined to comment specifically on Baker's criticisms, but hehad said that after three hours of discussions on Monday, "oneremark or another has been clarified." Reuter
SENATOR URGES ACTION TO STABILIZE STOCK MARKETS Sen. John Heinz, R-Pa, urged theAdministration to take steps to reduce volatility in thefinancial markets, including suspending program trading andlimiting daily trading on stock index futures.    Heinz said margin requirements for index futures, now sixpct, should be the same as for common stock and equities.    He urged creation of a task force to be headed by formerFederal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker to coordinateinternational credit and montary policies among major nationsand stabilize interest rates at the lowest possible levels. Reuter
REAGAN SAYS THERE IS ROOM FOR FURTHER DECLINES IN INTERE FPL Group Inc's Florida Power and Light Cosubsidiary said the staff of the Nuclear Regulatory Commissionhas proposed a 225,000 dlr fine against the utility's TurkeyPoint nuclear power plant based on three previously identifiedincidents.    At the same time, Florida Power said, the NRC issued anorder confirming the utility's commitment to implement apackage of programs designed to correct problems at thefacility.       In a letter accompanying the order, the Florida Power said,the NRC expressed concern about plant management controls, butindicated support of the utility's initiatives and said theseefforts "should result in significant improvements in theperformance of site personnel."    The three violations for which the fine was proposedoccurred between December 1986 and July 1987.    Florida Power has 30 days to pay or appeal the proposedfine, it said.                    Reuter
TREASURY'S BAKER UNDER FIRE FOR WALL STREET DROP As official Washington sought torestore investor confidence after Monday's Wall Streetcollapse, Treasury Secretary James Baker came under fire fromcritics who claimed he helped to precipitate the crisis.    Baker's weekend blast at the West German Bundesbank forboosting interest rates seemed to signal an unraveling of aninternational accord to stabilize currency values.    Nigel Lawson, British Chancellor of the Exchequer, wasamong those who said the treasury secretary's statements helpedspur a wave of stock sales by making already jittery investorsthink that a clash between the two major economic powers woulddamage the world economy.    Lawson told a London television interviewer Tuesday, "Ithink the scale of the (stock) fall was very great. That, Ithink, was partly due to statements that have been made bysenior figures on the other side of the Atlantic." It was adispute that should never have happened, he added.    Although Baker appeared to patch over the rift at ahastily-called meeting with West German officials Monday, he  still faced a storm of criticism on his return to the UnitedStates on Tuesday. Baker cut short a long-planned trip toScandinavia to return here to deal with the economic crisis.    Said one U.S. analyst of Baker's weekend remarks, "Histiming could not have been worse."    One government bond salesman in New York said, "He actuallythought that yelling at the Germans, and threatening to smackthe dollar down would work. That doesn't show muchunderstanding of international monetary gamesmanship."    However, some analysts said West Germany's stubborn marchtoward higher interest rates may have forced Baker's hand.    "On the surface Baker may look responsible for this, but ifyou go back to see what caused it (unsettling of financialmarkets), it was West German policy," said Robert Brusca ofNikko Securities International in New York.    "All Mr. Baker did was to mention the obvious in public, somaking him responsible for it was a little like killing themessenger," he said.    After Monday's talks, the U.S. and West German governmentsmade it clear that the Louvre currency accord, pieced togetherin Paris in February, was still in effect.    Wall Street feared that collapse of the agreement might bea prelude to hyper-inflation and economic malaise similar tothe late 1970s. Analysts believe Monday's Wall Street crashwiped out about 500 billion dlrs in stock values.   Treasury sources said that Baker, already unhappy aboutBonn's refusal to stimulate its economy in order to keep theglobal recovery moving, was angered by a Bundesbank interestrate boost that seemed destined to do just the opposite.    He felt that the U.S. recovery, inching along in its 59thmonth, could no longer be the only engine of global economicexpansion. A growing U.S. economy has been serving as a hugemarket for debtor country exports.    Moreover, Baker, the consummate politician, was worriedthat the Republican party might face next year's presidentialelection with its main showpiece -- a vibrant economy -- badlytarnished.    A rise in global interest rates might worsen the debtcrisis and completely choke off U.S. economic growth that hasalready slowed to a tepid 3.2 pct annual rate.    "There's no doubt that it can have an adverse effect on theeconomy, and it's important that the psychology turn aroundquickly, or else obviously the panic will feed on itself, andeventually there'll be a serious price to pay economically,"former deputy Treasury Secretary Richard Darman said in atelevision interview.    In many ways, the official response was mild.    Washington was stunned by the sudden Wall Street retreat,with President Reagan speaking for most people by admittingthat he was "puzzled."    U.S. government sources said the secretary immediatelyreturned to the Treasury to be briefed on market developmentsand, presumably, their political impact.    For all of this, it seems unlikely that Baker's status inWashington will diminish because of the market fall.    Asked by reporters if somebody's head should roll becauseof the Wall Street retreat, Texas Democratic Senator LloydBentsen said with some irony, "Oh, I think it's much too late tobe doing that...You have an administration that's taken theattitude that we can put the country on automatic pilot and ---retire to the living room to take a nap. You just can't dothat." Reuter
REAGAN SEES ROOM FOR INTEREST RATE DECLINES President Reagan said he was pleasedwith the actions of some banks to reduce their prime lendingrates today and said he sees room for a further decline ininterest rates.    "I believe there is room in the market for a further declinein interest rates," Reagan said in a statement as he left theWhite House to visit his wife Nancy at Bethesda Naval Hospital.    Reagan's statement followed a meeting with his top economicadvisers.    Reagan said he remains concerned about the market, but thatactions taken by the Federal Reserve have helped.    "Interest rates are down across the spectrum," Reagan said.    "Specifically, I am pleased that the bond market is strongand that foreign exchange markets are stable," Reagan said. Reuter
CANADA 750 MLN DLR T-BILL ISSUE YIELD AVERAGE 8.60 PCT - OFFICIAL    Global Motors Inc saidit has agreed to become become the exclusive North Americanimporter of the Lincan Gama, a four-wheel-drive sport vehiclemanufactured by <P.T. Indauda> of Indonesia.    In a letter of intent it signed with P.T. Indauda, Globalsaid it expects to begin marketing the first Lincan Gamas inmid-1989, with 20,000 units projected to be marketed in thefirst year.    Global is the parent company of Yugo America Inc, importerof the Yugoslavian Yugo vehicle. Reuter
 French 13-week T-Bill rate rises to 8.54 pct from 7.65 -- Bank o Wang Laboratories Inc expects revenues forthe year ending June 30, 1988, to increase 12 to 15 pct overfiscal 1987 to 3.2 billion dlrs, President Frederick Wang said.    He told a news conference after-tax profit for the yearshould increase by three to five pct.    Earlier Wang said first quarter revenues increased 16 to693 mln dlrs and profits totaled 22.5 mln dlrs, or 14 cts ashare, vs a loss of 30 mln dlrs, or 19 cts a share, in theSeptember quarter last year.       Wang told the news conference the company's orders wereparticularly strong for the high end of its line of VSminicomputers.    "For the past six months the high end really surged" whilethe company's entry level computers dipped slightly, seniorvice president of U.S. operations Ian Diery said.    For the past six months, earnings for both large and entrylevel systems in the U.S. increased by 20 pct, he said..    Wang said the company has seen an overall resurgance in itsbusiness in the U.S. He said the company's business in Europe"remains fairly firm." Reuter
FDIC'S SEIDMAN SAYS HIGHER RATES COULD HARM BANKS Federal Deposit Insurance Corp ChairmanWilliam Seidman said he would be concerned about the impact onbanks of a further sharp rise in interest rates.    However, Seidman, attending the American BankersAssociation convention, said he did not expect rates to risemuch higher and said the outlook for the U.S. economy and forbanking was sound.    "The potential for greater interest rate rises gives usconcern. We see nothing right now in the outlook that causes usto believe rates are going much higher or that the economy isnot sound," Seidman told a news conference. Reuter
 Bank of France added money market liquidity at 7-3/4 pct - GAF Corp said the management groupled by chairman Samuel J. Heyman intends to reconsider itsproposal to acquire GAF.    On September 8, the group offered 64.00 dlrs in cash and2.50 dlrs principal amount of 15 pct junior subordinateddebentures due 2007 for each GAF share.  Heyman owns about2,700,000 of GAF's 33.5 mln shares outstanding.    In a letter to the committee of independent directorsformed to consider the offer, Heyman said it will have tomodify the terms of the offer if it is to continue the bid, dueto rising interest rates and financial market conditions.    Heyman said "In the considerable time that has elapsedsince our original proposal was submitted, the credit andfinancial markets have experienced extraordinary and almostunprecedented deterioration.  As of the present time, theaverage interest rate on the financing which we proposed toraise in connection with the acquisition has increased, sincethe original proposal, by approximately 150 basis points."    He said the group intends to promptly review all availableoptions, including the revision of its offer to reflect currentmarket conditions. Reuter
LUX FRANC BOND MARKET STALLED BY BELGIAN CRISIS The thriving market in Luxembourgfranc bond issues has been temporarily stalled by the Belgiangovernment crisis which has put the franc under pressure andforced up interest rates, banking sources said.    On Monday, King Baudouin accepted the resignation ofBelgian Prime Minister Wilfried Martens' coalition and askedhim to try to form a new government.    Because of the crisis, Banque Generale du Luxembourg SA(BGL) has delayed a public issue for one billion Luxembourgfrancs, originally scheduled for the end of last week, BGLdirector Robert Sharfe said.    He said the issue would probably go ahead later this week.    It is likely there will be an upward adjustment in interestrates on Luxembourg franc bond private placements, bankingsources said. However, no new placements are scheduled foranother 10 days.    The latest issue last Friday for Swedish Export Credit Corp(SEK) carried a coupon of 7-1/2 pct, whereas in previous issuesthe interest was set lower at 7-3/8 pct.    Interest rates on the Luxembourg franc, which is in paritywith the Belgian franc, are strongly affected by Belgian rates.    On Friday, Belgium increased the rate on three-monthTreasury certificates by 0.5 pct to 7.15 pct as the Belgianfranc came under pressure.    Private placements in Luxembourg francs have becomeincreasingly popular, particularly with Scandivanian borrowers,because they carry a relatively low interest rate.    Private investors also have flocked to buy Luxembourg francbond issues because the franc was seen as a fairly strongcurrency. REUTER
GERMAN FINANCIAL POLICY MAKERS IN RARE DISSENSION Karl Otto Poehl, head of West Germany'scentral bank, and Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg arenormally so much in agreement that some foreigners doubt thecentral bank's independence.    But a rare public row between the ebullient Poehl,president of the Bundesbank, and Stoltenberg, over acontroversial investment tax proposal, has added to the woes ofthe country's already nervous financial markets, bankers said.    Poehl told an investment symposium in Frankfurt lastThursday he feared the tax would raise borrowing costs andinterest rates    Stoltenberg quickly issued a statement rebutting Poehl'scriticism, saying West Germany would remain an attractive placefor foreign investors.    "The obvious lack of coordination between the Bundesbank andFinance Ministry does not instil confidence in foreigninvestors," said one economist for a London broker, who askednot to be identified.    Bankers here expressed confidence the two top financialpolicy-makers would quickly patch up their relationship tosteer the economy through a particularly difficult time.    "There are plenty of objective pressures which will resultin things getting back to normal again after a period of illfeeling," said Commerzbank AG chief economist Juergen Pfister.    News on October 9 that the government was planning a 10 pctwithholding tax wiped billions of marks off shares and bonds ina market already reeling from rising interest rates at home andabroad.    Bankers said the Bundesbank was angered by the way thefinance ministry announced the plan -- without consulting theBundesbank adequately, and allowing apparently conflictingdetails to dribble out into an unprepared and uncertain market.    Both Poehl, 57, and Stoltenberg, 59, have been underextraordinary pressures lately.    Poehl has had to switch to the hard line promoted by hisdeputy, Helmut Schlesinger, jacking up interest rates to fightinflationary fears and abandoning the pragmatic policies he hadpursued so far this year to promote currency stability.    In recent statements Poehl has sounded more likeSchlesinger. For years the softly-spoken economist has beenwarning in speech after speech that excessive money supplygrowth would eventually lead to rising prices.    Schlesinger now has a majority of support in the Bundesbankcouncil, and since late summer Poehl has had to represent hisviews, bankers said.    "Poehl is in a minority in his own house," said Commerzbank'sPfister.    "Poehl is in a dilemma. He must follow a policy that is notentirely his own," said another economist.    The dilemma is that if German interest rates rise too far,they will attract funds into the country, pushing up the markand hurting West German exporters.    The dollar has now shed some seven pfennigs since theBundesbank's new tack became clear in early October.    Since last Thursday, United States Treasury Secretary JamesBaker has criticized the Bundesbank rate increases.    Bankers said this could foreshadow a revival of the 1986war of words between the U.S. And West Germany, in which U.S.Officials talked down the dollar to force West Germany tostimulate its economy and thus suck in more U.S. Exports.    One way West Germany agreed to do this was making a roundof tax cuts worth 39 billion marks from 1990.    But financing these tax cuts has proved more difficult forStoltenberg than he had bargained for.    The cool, unflappable northerner, who was regularly votedmost popular government politician last year, had to faceresistance from local barons in the government coalitionparties and from trade unions to his planned subsidy cuts.    The withholding tax was intended to plug one gap by raising4.3 billion marks.    But it has caused an outcry among bankers, who say it willpush up borrowing costs. The extra amount this costs thegovernment could wipe out the revenue the tax brings in.    Meanwhile Stoltenberg is dealing with a local political rowwhich has turned into the country's worst political scandal.    Stoltenberg had to leave monetary talks in Washington lastmonth early to sort out a row in the northern state ofSchleswig-Holstein, where he heads the ruling CDU party.    The state's CDU premier, Uwe Barschel, had to resign afterallegations of a "dirty tricks" election campaign led to heavylosses for the CDU in state elections.    Barschel was found dead in a hotel bath in Geneva lastweekend. Police say the death appears to have been suicide.    Cooperation between Poehl and Stoltenberg is all the moreremarkable as Poehl is in the opposition Social Democrats, andwas appointed by former chancellor Helmut Schmidt.    When Poehl's contract came up for renewal earlier thisyear, Chancellor Helmut Kohl's CDU-led coalition governmentgave Poehl another eight-year term.    Werner Chrobok, managing partner at Bethmann Bank, said hehoped the two men would soon be of one opinion again.    But when Poehl criticized Stoltenberg's tax plans he wasnot only voicing what many bankers felt but demonstrating theBundesbank's independence of government, Chrobok said. REUTER
PAPERS SAY VENEZUELAN CENTRAL BANK CHIEF TO RESIGN Venezuelan Central Bank President HernanAnzola has submitted his resignation and asked President JaimeLusinchi to transfer him to a post in the oil industry, twoleading Venezuelan newspapers reported.    The El Universal and El Nacional papers said Anzola wouldleave his position soon. Lusinchi already has decided on hissuccessor, the El Nacional reported.    Central Bank officials were not available for comment.    Banking sources said Anzola differed with the FinanceMinistry over economic policy, particularly over the directionof interest rates. He favoured raising the rates, which arecurrently well below the annual inflation rate of 33.2 pct.    But the sources said he ran into opposition from FinanceMinistry and government officials who thought an interestincrease would fuel inflation. REUTER
 Bundesbank adds money market liquidity at 3.70-3.80 pct  French Finance Minister Edouard Balladurissued a firm call for the continued faithful application ofthe Louvre accords on currency stability by all majorindustrial countries.    Balladur, responding to weekend remarks by U.S. TreasurySecretary James Baker that the U.S. Would take another look atthe accords, said "I firmly desire a faithfull and firmadherence by all the major industrial countries to the Louvreaccords -- in both their letter and spirit."    On Sunday, Baker said last week's rise in short-term WestGerman interest rates was not in keeping with the accords.    The Louvre accords, agreed in Paris last February, calledfor stability among the major currencies after a prolongeddollar slide.    The accords were reaffirmed by the Group of Seven FinanceMinisters in Washington last month.    But Baker said at the weekend that the West German raterise was "not in keeping with the spirit of what we agreed to."    "What I'm really saying is that they should not expect us tosimply sit back here and accept increased tightening on theirpart on the assumption that somehow we are going to followthem," he added. REUTER
