U.S. JAN BUSINESS INVENTORIES ROSE 0.9 PCT AFTER A REVISED 0.6 PCT  The European Monetary System marks itseighth anniversary still vulnerable to turmoil in world moneymarkets despite creating an island of currency rate stabilityin Europe, economists say. But many economists say the system,which holds eight European Community currencies within narrowfluctuation bands, remains in its infancy.    Its new currency, the European Currency Unit (Ecu), hasbeen a runaway success with investors and borrowers alikeseeking an alternative to the volatile dollar.    And on Wednesday, the long term vision of the Ecu asEurope's common currency took a step nearer to becoming realitywhen Belgium minted the world's first Ecu coin.    But economists say members such as West Germany have so farblocked a second stage of development envisaged by the system'sfounding fathers, ex-West German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt andformer French President Valery Giscard d'Estaing.    Under this phase, originally due to have started two yearsafter the EMS was set up, decision-making was to have beentransferred from national governments and central banks to anautonomous European Monetary Fund.   But members have jealously guarded their sovereignty ineconomic and monetary matters. "The basic problem of the EMS isthat governments are not prepared to make the quantum leap to asituation where certain decisions are taken in common," said oneeconomist who has closely watched the system's development.    The result is that the EC is often divided over policy onthird currencies, accentuating what the economists say is thesystem's greatest weakness, its vulnerability to a weak dollar.    Over the past 18 months, as the U.S. Dollar plunged andinvestors moved into strong currencies, the resulting sharprise of the West German mark severely strained the system. MORE    As the mark soared against the dollar, it also rose againstEMS currencies less favoured by international investors. And asWest Germany last year refused to give in pressure from severalEC partners and the United States to cut interest rates to slowthe mark's rise, the EMS had to be realigned twice to easefinancial and trade strains within the community.    Two months ago the mark and the Dutch guilder were revaluedby three pct and the Belgian and Luxembourg francs by two pctagainst other currencies in the system -- the French franc,Italian lira, the Irish punt and Danish crown.   Another frustration has been Britain's failure to lend theEMS political support by keeping the pound, still a major worldcurrency, outside the system.    No change in the British government's attitude is expectedbefore the country's next general elections, due by mid-1988.    Meanwhile, the system's last realignment, the 11th since itwas set up, prompted European finance ministers to ask the EC'shighly-secretive Monetary Committee and Committee of CentralBank Governors to come up with suggestions for reinforcing it.    Their ideas are due to be unveiled when finance ministershold an informal meeting in Belgium early next month.    But economists said the proposals are unlikely to involvemore than tinkering with technical details. They are scepticalabout the chances for any fundamental change.    "Technical measures won't be enough to protect the EMSagainst external factors such as dollar weakness. For that wemust take the step forward to the institutional level," said Leode Corel of Kredietbank's economic research department.    Economists say the system's fortunes now will dependlargely on the success of an agreement last month among majorindustrial nations to stabilise exchange rates. If the dollarresumes its slide the EMS could be in for more turbulence, theypredict. REUTER
U.S. JANUARY BUSINESS INVENTORIES ROSE 0.9 PCT U.S. business inventories rose 5.6billion dlrs, or 0.9 pct, to a seasonally adjusted 592.19billion dlrs in January, the Commerce Department said.    It was the largest inventory rise since July, 1979, wheninventories were up 1.7 pct.    In December, inventories fell a revised 3.4 billion dlrs,or 0.6 pct, to 586.65 billion dlrs. Previously, the departmentsaid inventories fell 0.5 pct in December.    Business sales fell 20.1 billion dlrs, or 4.5 pct, inJanuary to 428.75 billion dlrs after rising by three pct inDecember to 448.82 billion dlrs.    The department said it was the largest monthly sales dropon record.    January inventories were up 8.2 billion dlrs, or 1.4 pct,from the year-ago level of 583.99 billion dlrs.    Durable goods inventories rose 1.4 pct to 366.13 billion inJanuary dlrs while nondurables inventories were up 0.2 pct fromDecember levels to 226.07 billion dlrs.    Manufacturers inventories were up 0.5 pct to 277.02 billiondlrs in January after falling by 0.3 pct in December to 275.53billion dlrs.    Wholesalers' inventories rose 1.3 pct in January to 140.25billion dlrs.    The inventory-to-sales ratio rose to 1.38, up .07 fromDecember, the department said.    January's sales were 2.82 billion dlrs or 0.7 pct below theJanuary, 1986, level of 431.56 billion dlrs. Reuter
JAPAN JANUARY INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION REVISED UP Japan's January seasonally adjustedindustrial production index (base 1980) was revised upwards to122.3 from a preliminary 122.0, the Ministry of InternationalTrade and Industry said.    The revised adjusted January index was down 0.5 pct fromDecember when it rose 3.6 pct from a month earlier.    The revised unadjusted January index rose 0.5 pct from ayear earlier, after a one pct year-on-year December rise.    The adjusted producers' shipment index (base 1980) forJanuary was revised upward to 117.7 from a preliminary 117.4.    The index was down 0.7 pct from December when it rose threepct from a month earlier. The revised unadjusted index was up1.0 pct from a year earlier after a 1.4 pct year-on-yearDecember rise.    The adjusted index of producers' inventories of finishedgoods (base 1980) for January was unchanged from a preliminary105.9. The index was down 0.3 pct from December when it rose1.1 pct. Unadjusted, the revised index was down 2.3 pct from ayear earlier after a 2.1 pct year-on-year drop in December. REUTER
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURERS EXPECT DOWNTURN - SURVEY A majority of Australianmanufacturers expect a deterioration in the business climate,according to the March survey of industrial trends by WestpacBanking Corp and the Confederation of Australian Industry.    After expecting improvements in two previous quarterlysurveys, 56 pct of respondents reported working at less thansatisfactory levels, with insufficient orders nominated by 70pct as the major constraint.    Other constraints were capacity, 11 pct, and labour ninepct, the survey said.    Inflationary pressure increased during the quarter andinvestment plans for the next year were scaled down, which thesurvey said could limit activity in the medium to short term.    Respondents reporting an increase in orders fell to 22 pctin March from 30 pct in December, while those with ordersaccepted but not yet delivered fell to 14 pct from 21 pct.    Stocks of finished goods and raw materials fell sharply inthe March quarter and further depletion was forecast for theJune quarter, the survey said.    Respondents said finance was harder to obtain, whichWestpac chief economist Bob Graham said was probably because ofhigh interest rates rather than the availability of money.    Graham said he thought expectations would gradually improvelater this year, when the dollar might consolidate and interestrates ease slightly.    He believed some manufacturers were not investing becausethey feared the Australian dollar would get stronger.    "We do not believe the dollar will revalue, the (economic)fundamentals are for it to slip away if anything," he said. REUTER
U.S. ECONOMY SHOWS PROMISING SIGNS OF GROWTH The U.S. economy is showing somepromising signs of accelerated expansion despite thesluggishness of the fourth quarter last year, privateeconomists say.    Some of the slowness experienced in the October-Decemberperiod had been expected to spill over into the first quarterthis year, as the tax law changes that went into effect inJanuary slowed business and consumer spending.    But some of the latest economic data show signs ofsurprising strength in the U.S. economy, although someeconomists remain cautious about the outlook.    The Commerce Department reported today that new orders fordurable goods in February jumped by 5.7 billion dlrs, a six pctrise, to 101.2 billion dlrs. Even excluding volatile defensegoods, durable goods orders rose a healthy 3.8 pct, the agencysaid.    The February numbers surpassed the expectations of manyfinancial analysts, whose predictions ranged from flat toincreases of up to five pct.    The January/February employment statistics suggest theGross National Product will show a healthy rate of growth forthe first three months of this year, said Lyle Gramley, aneconomist with the Mortgage Bankers Association.    The U.S. jobless rate in February and January was 6.7 pct,the lowest rate since March 1980. The number of new non-farmjobs rose by 337,000 in February after a 319,000 gain inJanuary and a 225,000 December increase, the government said.    The employment data suggests a GNP annual growth rate ofabout three to 3.25 pct in the first quarter, said Gramley.    Much of that will be attributed to businesses rebuildingtheir inventories and is not likely to be sustained in thesecond quarter, Gramley said. He expects a slowdown in thesecond quarter with smaller increases in personal consumptionand government spending. He also sees residential constructiondeclining mostly for multi-family housing units.    Fidelity Bank senior economist Mickey Levy said some of thefourth quarter slowness will continue.    Levy predicts GNP will grow at a scant 1.5 pct rate in thefirst quarter of 1987, accelerate during the second quarter andshow a brisk 4.5 pct annual rate in the third quarter.    The key to both forecasts is a marked improvement in theU.S. trade balance which is expected because of the decline inthe dollar's value over the last year and half.    "The improvement will be gradual and long lasting," Levypredicted. Most of it will be through import reduction, but atleast one-third will be due to a rise in product exports as theprices of U.S. goods become more attractive overseas.    The Reagan administration has predicted the trade deficit,which soared to record levels last year, will improve this yearand the U.S. economy will grow by a respectable 3.2 pct for theyear compared with a 2.5 pct rate last year.    As part of the effort to reduce the trade deficit, the U.S.has been pressing West Germany and Japan to stimulate theirdomestic demand for goods from the U.S. and others.    U.S. officials believe that would help take some of thepressure off the United States whose five years of economicgrowth has been the mainstay of developing countries.    The U.S. economy provided them with a giant market fortheir goods giving them a way to earn income badly needed toservice their foreign debt.    The government last week said the U.S. economy grew at amodest 1.1 pct annual rate during the fourth quarter.    There were indications of improvement in the huge imbalancebetween the volume of goods imported to the United States andthose shipped abroad. The report showed a rising volume ofexports corresponding to a decline in imports despite the factthat in current dollar terms, the U.S. trade deficit worsenedduring the closing three months of 1986.    While fourth quarter economic growth was weak, corporateprofits jumped a healthy 6.1 pct during the period, thegovernment said. It also reported that inflation, as measuredby the GNP price deflator, remained in check, growing amoderate 0.7 pct in the period, the lowest rise in 19 years.    The government also reported that consumer spending, a keyelement of the five year economic recovery, jumped 1.7 pct inFebruary, after falling two pct in January.    The Federal Reserve Board also reported that themanufacturing sector, which had been one of the weaker elementsof the U.S. economy, was showing signs of recovery.    In its latest report on current economic conditions, theFed said that economic activity in the various regions of thecountry ranged from uneven or steady to improving.Manufacturing activity showed signs of improvement in mostregions except Dallas where orders remained sluggish.    Chase Econometrics Chairman Lawrence Chimerine said thepick up in the U.S. manufacturing sector is largely due to thedrop in the dollar's value. He said he does not foresee a majorpick up in economic activity, but does not believe the economywill slip into recession either.    He said higher prices on imported products and wage cutsthat have helped the manufacturing sector will squeezeconsumers purchasing power.    "That pattern is starting and will continue for a number ofyears," Chimerine said. He sees economic growth hovering arounda modest two pct level for the next few years. Reuter
JAPAN INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION RISES IN MARCH Japan's preliminary industrial productionindex (base 1980) rose 0.7 pct to a seasonally adjusted 122.8in March from the previous month, the Ministry of InternationalTrade and Industry said.    Production had fallen 0.2 in Feburary from a month earlier.    The preliminary, unadjusted March index fell 0.2 pct from ayear earlier after remaining flat in Feburary.    The adjusted March producers' shipment index (same base)fell 0.6 to 117.3 from February. The unadjusted index rose 0.3pct from a year earlier.    The adjusted March index of producers' inventories offinished goods (same base) rose 0.7 pct to 105.4 from Feburary.The unadjusted index fell 1.1 pct from a year earlier. REUTER
JAPAN INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION RISES IN MARCH Japan's preliminary industrial productionindex (base 1980) rose 0.7 pct to a seasonally adjusted 122.8in March from the previous month, the Ministry of InternationalTrade and Industry said.    Production had fallen 0.2 in Feburary from a month earlier.    The preliminary, unadjusted March index fell 0.2 pct from ayear earlier after remaining flat in Feburary.    The adjusted March producers' shipment index (same base)fell 0.6 to 117.3 from February. The unadjusted index rose 0.3pct from a year earlier.    The adjusted March index of producers' inventories offinished goods (same base) rose 0.7 pct to 105.4 from Feburary.The unadjusted index fell 1.1 pct from a year earlier. REUTER
