CANADA INDUSTRIAL PRICES UP 0.2 PCT IN MONTH Canada's industrial product price indexrose 0.2 pct in January after falling 0.2 pct in each of thetwo previous months, Statistics Canada said.    The rise was led by price gains for papers, pharmaceuticalsand petroleum and coal products. Price declines were recordedfor meat products, lumber and motor vehicles.    On a year over year basis, the federal agency said theindex fell 0.9 pct in January, the largest yearly decline onrecord. Reuter
EC INDUSTRY OUTPUT GROWTH SLOWS IN 1986 European Community industrial outputincreased by an average of around two pct last year, comparedwith 3.3 pct growth recorded in 1985 against a year earlier,the EC statistics office Eurostat said.    Growth was highest in Portugal at five pct, while in Greeceoutput contracted by 0.3 pct, Eurostat said in a statement.    Eurostat noted output growth also fell in the U.S. AndJapan. U.S. Production increased 1.1 pct after 2.0 pct in 1985,while in Japan output contracted by 0.5 pct after rising 4.5pct a year earlier.    Eurostat said EC industrial production in December rose 3.1pct compared with 12 months earlier but added that afteradjustment for seasonal factors, output growth had been clearlyslowing down since the beginning of the summe REUTER
CANADA INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION UP 2.53 PCT Canadian industrial production rose 2.53pct in December after falling 0.51 pct in November, StatisticsCanada said.    The federal agency said year-over-year production was off0.65 pct in December, compared with a decline of 1.65 pct inNovember. Reuter
FEBRUARY U.S. JOBS GAINS SHOW STRONGER ECONOMY Momentum in th U.S. economy may bepicking up given solid across-the board increases in theFebruary U.S. employment report, economists said.    U.S. non-farm payroll employment rose 337,000 in February,twice what the financial markets expected. This follows a319,000 gain in January, revised down from a previouslyreported 448,000 increase.    "Even if you look at January and February together, this isstill a much stronger report than the consensus expectation inthe market," said Allan Leslie of Discount Corporation.    Economists stressed that gains in hours worked signal muchlarger gains in February U.S. production and income thanpreviously forecast.    The average work week rose 0.2 hours to 35.0 hours from34.8 hours in January. The average manufacturing work week rose0.3 hours to 41.2 hours, the longest factory work week sinceNovember 1966, the Commerce Department said.    "The gains in manufacturing employment point to a verylarge increase in industrial production of between 0.5 and 0.7pct," said Joe Carson of Chemical Bank. This compares to a 0.4pct  gain in January U.S. industrial production.    Peter Greenbaum of Smith Barney Harris Upham and Co Incnoted that the average wage rate increased to 8.87 dlrs an hourin February from 8.83 dlrs in January.    "Combined with the increase in hours worked, this meanswe'll get a pretty healthy gain in personal income vis-a-visthe wage and salary disbursement," he said.    Greenbaum said that February U.S. personal income shouldrise at least 0.5 pct after being flat in January.    He said the February employment gains are consistent withhis firm's first quarter U.S. real gross national productgrowth forecast of 3.7 pct.    Economists agreed that the employment data were negativefor the credit markets in that they signal a healthier economyand no easing in the Federal Reserve's monetary policy. Butmost said that the market need not fear tighter policy either.    "This report is another reason for the Fed to not considereasing," said Ray Stone of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Inc.    "It gives them more room to address the dollar situation," hesaid. "If they had to nudge policy tighter, they could do so,but it's most likely they'll sit and wait."    "The data have not been uniform," Stone added. "Durablegoods were weak in January and now employment is strong."    In January, U.S. durable goods orders dropped 7.5 pct,followed by a 4.0 pct drop in U.S. factory goods orders. U.S.retail sales fell 5.8 pct, and the U.S. merchandise trade gapwidened to 14.8 billion dlrs.    "Things just aren't adding up," said Steve Slifer of LehmanGoverment Securities Inc. "Consumer spending, capital spending,goverment spending, and net exports data show very weak firstquarter GNP growth of one pct," he said.    "The employment and production data point to a biginventory build-up, but that's what we thought in the fourthquarter and we only got 1.3 pct GNP growth."    Manufacturing employment gained 50,000 after falling 15,000in January. Economists estimated that 30,000 of the gain wasaccounted for by striking workers in the steel and machineryindustries returning to work.    Even so, some economists said that the manufacturing gainshave resulted from an improving trade outlook.    Jason Benderly of Goldman, Sachs and Co noted that the U.S.trade picture improved in the fourth quarter as net exportsgrew at a 20 pct annual rate while the rate of increase inimports fell to only six pct, and that it continues to improvein the first quarter.    "Not only the official statistics for the fourth quarter,but evidence of a pick up in orders from overseas for paperproducts, chemicals, high-tech goods, and capital goods showthat trade is improving," Benderley said.    "The economy is moving between extremes," he said. "Somereports are going to look bad and some good, but first quarterGNP is going to grow in the middle at about three pct."    A 287,000 gain in services employment comprised the greaterpart of February's employment gain. Retail services employmentrose 129,000 in February, compared to a gain of 117,000 inJanuary, previously reported at 166,000.    Construction employment rose a slim 2,000 in February. Butthis follows a robust 113,000 gain in January, revised downfrom a previously reported 142,000 gain.    The U.S. civilian unemployment rate was unchanged inFebruary at 6.7 pct. This means the jobless rate has stayed at6.7 pct for three consecutive months, the lowest reading sinceMarch 1980, the Commerce Department noted.    "The Federal Reserve has to be pleased with this report,"Carson said. "This takes away the Fed's flexibility to ease,but there's no reason to tighten. It's way too early for that."       Reuter
SWISS INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES IN FOURTH QQUARTER Swiss industrial output rose nine pct inthe fourth quarter last year after a four pct third quarterdecline, and was up three pct from the final three months of1985, the Federal Office of Industry, Trade and Labour said.    For the full year 1986 the index, base 1963, stood at 166after up four pct from the 159 recorded the previous year.    Incoming orders gained four pct in the quarter after a fivepct third quarter fall and were up one pct from the yearearlier level. In the full year they gained one pct. The orderbacklog fell eight pct, the third straight quarterly declineand ended three pct under the year earlier level. REUTER
CHINESE INDUSTRIAL GROWTH RATE UP AFTER WEAK 1986 The value of China's industrial output inJanuary and February this year was 14.1 pct higher than in thesame 1986 period, the New China News Agency said.    Output increased by 5.6 pct from January 1985 to January1986 and 0.9 pct from February 1985 to 1986.    The agency said the most recent increase was largely due tolast year's poor performance. "No significant improvement wasmade in economic results," it said, adding that some successeswere reported in readjusting the industrial product mix in thelast quarter of 1986.    The agency said the amount of tied up working capital roseand sizeable funds were occupied by unsaleable goods in 1986.    It quoted unnamed economists as saying they expect 1987industrial production to increase at a proper rate and withbetter results, due to a cost-efficiency drive underwaythroughout the country. It gave no more details.    The official industrial growth target this year is sevenpct, down from an actual 9.2 pct last year. REUTER
U.S. ECONOMIC DATA KEY TO DEBT FUTURES OUTLOOK U.S. economic data this week could bethe key in determining whether U.S. interest rate futures breakout of a 3-1/2 month trading range, financial analysts said.    Although market expectations are for February U.S. retailsales Thursday and industrial production Friday to show healthygains, figures within or slightly below expectations would bepositive for the market, the analysts said.    "You have to be impressed with the resiliency of bondsright now," said Smith Barney Harris Upham analyst CraigSloane.    Treasury bond futures came under pressure today whichtraders linked to a persistently firm federal funds rate and arise in oil prices. However, when sufficient selling interestto break below chart support in the June contract failed tomaterialize, participants who had sold bond futures earlyquickly covered short positions, they said.    "Everyone is expecting strong numbers, and if they come inas expected it won't be that bad for the market," Sloane said.    Sloane said the consensus estimate for the non-auto sectorof retail sales is for a rise of 0.6 to 0.7 pct.    Dean Witter analyst Karen Gibbs said a retail sales figurebelow market forecasts would give a boost to debt futures, andshe put the range for the non-auto sector of retail sales at up0.8 to 1.2 pct.    Industrial production and the producer price index Fridayboth are expected to show increases of about 0.5 pct, sheadded.    Retail sales "will tell us whether or not we will be ableto fill the gap," Gibbs said, referring to a chart gap in Junebonds between 100-26/32 and 101-3/32 created Friday. June bondsclosed at 100-4/32 today.    Also key to debt futures direction, in addition to thefederal funds rate, is the direction of crude oil prices, saidCarroll McEntee and McGinley Futures analyst Brian Singer.    "A higher fed funds rate and firm oil prices precluded themarket from breaking out of the trading range the last time themarket approached the top of the range," Singer said.    In order for bonds to break above the top of the range,which is just below 102 in the June contract, "the crude oilrally needs to run its course and pull back a little bit,"Singer said. "Fed funds are already easing back down toward thesix pct level."    The recent surge in oil prices has also been a concern toManufacturers Hanover Futures analyst Jim Rozich, but the rallymay be nearing a top around 18.50 dlrs per barrel, he said.    Rozich said he is looking for the June bond contract toease to 99-6/32 and find support.    "I'm not quite ready to jump on the bullish bandwagon yet.The jury is still out this week," Rozich said. Reuter
U.S. FEB INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION ROSE 0.5 PCT AFTER REVISED 0.1 PCT  U.S. industrial production rose 0.5pct in February after a revised 0.1 pct increase in January,the Federal Reserve Board said.    The Fed previously said industrial production rose 0.4 pctin January.    The Fed said the February gain was dominated by a sharprise in motor vehicle production, which boosted output of bothconsumer goods and business equipment. Industrial productionstood at 127.3 pct of the 1977 average in February and was up1.7 pct from a year ago, the Fed said.    The Fed also revised the December industrial productionfigure to a gain of 0.5 pct from 0.3 pct originally reported.    Manufacturing output rose 0.5 pct in February after a 0.1pct increase in January and included gains of 0.8 pct indurables and 0.1 pct in non-durables, the Fed said.    Manufacturing was 2.4 pct above the year ago level.    Production of auto assemblies rose to an annual rate of 8.3mln units last month from a January rate of 7.5 mln units.    Output of consumer goods rose 0.6 pct after falling 0.3 pctin January and output of consumer durables was up 2.1 pct inFebruary after falling by 2.0 pct in January.    Business equipment production rose 1.0 pct in February,reflecting more output of autos and trucks for business use anda recovery from strikes in farm equipment industries, the Fedsaid.    Mining output rose 0.1 pct after a 1.6 pct increase inJanuary, but was still six pct lower than a year ago.    Utilities output rose 0.7 pct in February after a 1.2 pctrise in January.    Output of defense and space equipment was up 0.4 pct, thesame as in January, and 6.2 pct higher than a year ago.    Output of construction supplies rose 0.2 pct in Februaryafter a 1.5 pct January rise.    Materials output increased by 0.2 pct last month, thefourth consecutive monthly increase after declining throughoutmuch of 1986. The recent strength in materials has beenconcentrated in textiles, paper and chemicals, the Fed said.    Output of home goods was up 0.3 pct in February and the Fedsaid production of items like appliances and furniturecontinued strong last month. Reuter
FED SEEN CONTENT WITH U.S. FEBRUARY ECONOMY U.S. February reports reflecting slimgains in industrial output and moderating inflation pressuresreinforced expectations that the Federal Reserve will continueto follow a stable course of monetary policy, economists said.    "If you're the Fed, there's no reason to do anything," saidSteve Slifer of Lehman Government Securities Inc.    "There are hints that GNP is picking up. On the inflationfront, all is well," he said. "Money supply is well undercontrol. It's an absolutely ideal situation."    February U.S. industrial production rose 0.5 pct, slightlyless than the 0.7 pct gain the financial markets had expected.This compared with a slim 0.1 pct rise in January's productionnumber, previously reported as a 0.4 pct increase.    The February U.S. producer price index gained only 0.1 pct,less than a 0.3-0.4 pct expected rise. This followed a 0.6 pctrise in the PPI in January.    "The Fed is going to look at this positively," said AllanLeslie of Discount Corporation. "Certainly inflation is not asbad as what Volcker (Fed Chairman) has said lately. Industrialproduction growth is along the lines of what the Fed wants."    The energy products component of PPI rose 4.0 pct inFebruary, after a 9.8 pct increase in January.    "This shows that the impact of energy prices on inflationis behind us in terms of the move from 15 dlrs to 18 dlrs perbarrel," said Maria Ramirez of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. "Thetrend is still 3.5 pct in the first half of the year."    In 1986, declining energy prices contributed to a 2.5 pctdecline in the PPI.    Economists said that a rise in energy prices was expected,but a sharp drop in auto prices was not. Passenger car pricesfell 3.4 pct and light truck prices dropped 1.3 pct.    Yesterday, Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker said thata possibility of renewed inflation remains a concern in boththe financial markets and the Federal Reserve.    "The Fed may be lowering its own inflation expectationstoday," said Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities International.    While low inflation permits the Fed to maintain an easiermonetary policy, Brusca said if import prices do not rise thiscould necessitate a weaker dollar.    "The outlook for the dollar is still up in the air," hesaid. "We need inflation for U.S. producers to compete withforeign producers."    Brusca said prices of electronic equipment dropped 0.8 pctin February's PPI. With many electronic goods producedoverseas, this may show that foreign producers are not raisingprices which bodes ill for U.S. competitiveness, he said.    If further dollar declines are needed, this could diminishoverseas investment in U.S. debt, Brusca added, which mightnecessitate higher interest rates and lower bond prices.    By contrast, Slifer said imported goods prices rose 11.8pct from first quarter 1985 to first quarter 1986 reflecting toa large degree a 22 pct drop in the trade-weighted real valueof the dollar from February 1985 to February 1987.    Slifer said import prices may rise further asmanufacturers' contracts put in place before the dollar droppedto current levels expire, and new contracts are made thatreflect a weaker dollar.    David Wyss of Data Resources Inc noted that importedmanufactured goods prices rose 8.5 pct at an annual rate in thesecond half of 1986, which has contributed to rising U.S.industrial output.    "It's the other side of the lower dollar," Wyss said."Producers are beginning to find themselves more competitiveand they are increasing output."    Wyss said that the latest data point to an averageindustrial production gain of 0.3-0.4 pct in the first quarter."It's an encouraging sign that the manufacturing sector isbeginning to revive."    But Stephen Roach of Morgan Stanley and Co Inc was not convinced that the February reports portend economic gains. Hesaid much of the strength came from factors that do not pointto a sustained rise in industrial output.    Roach pointed out that stikers returning to work in farmequipment industries helped account for a one pct rise inFebruary business equipment production.    Utilities output rose 0.7 pct in February after gaining 1.2pct in January, but Roach said it shows mostly that more energywas produced, not that manufacturing activity gained.    Finally, he pointed out that auto production accounted forhalf of the industrial production gain as production of autoassemblies rose to 8.3 million units at an annual rate from 7.5million units.    "In the first quarter, it looks like automakers areproducing at an 8.5 mln unit annual rate, but selling atroughly a seven mln unit rate," Roach said. "The disparitybetween output and sales is showing up in inventories."    Economists pointed to sharp rise in January U.S. businessinventories as a sign that production may be outstrippingdemand in the first quarter of 1987.    January business inventories rose 0.9 pct, the largest gainsince July 1979 when inventories rose 1.7 pct, the CommerceDepartment said. Business sales dropped 4.5 pct in January, thelargest monthly sales drop on record.    Nonetheless, economists do not expect the Fed to react tomonth-to-month changes. "The Fed has been standing pat for thelast seven months," Ramirez said. "They will continue to standpat for at least the next couple of months." Reuter
BRAZIL INDUSTRIAL GROWTH RATE SLOWED IN JANUARY The growth rate of Brazilianindustrial output slowed in January to 6.09 pct above the same1986 month after rising 6.71 pct in December, BrazilianGeography and Statistics Institute figures show.    The result is in line with the declining trend in thegrowth rate since October, the Institute said.    In the 12 months to end-January industrial production was10.48 pct above the 12 months to end-January last year while incalendar 1986 output was 10.89 pct above 1985.    The biggest output rises in the 12 months to end-Januarywere 23.68 pct in pharmaceuticals and 22.12 pct in machinery. Reuter
BRAZIL INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION SLOWED IN JANUARY Industrial output in January was6.09 pct above the same 1986 month after rising 6.71 pct inDecember, Brazilian Geography and Statistics Institute figuresshow.    The result is in line with the declining trend in thegrowth rate since October, the Institute said.    In the 12 months to end-January industrial production was10.48 pct above the 12 months to end-January last year, whilein calendar 1986 output was 10.89 pct above 1985.    The biggest output rises in the 12 months to end-Januarywere 23.68 pct in pharmaceuticals and 22.12 pct in machinery. Reuter
SOVIET FIGURES SHOW ECONOMY STILL SHORT OF TARGETS The Soviet economy recovered slightlylast month after a poor performance in January, but majorindustries, including oil and machinery, are still short ofproduction targets, official figures show.    Central Statistical Board data published in the weeklyEkonomicheskaya Gazeta yesterday showed that industrial outputwas only up 0.8 pct in the first two months of 1987 over thesame period of last year.    However, the figure for January alone showed a fall inoutput of 0.1 pct from a year earlier. Production is targettedto increase 4.4 pct for all of 1987.    The figures showed that only 77 pct of enterprises mettheir supply obligations in January and February.    Production of oil, the country's main export to Westernnations, hit 100 mln tonnes in January and February, up from97.3 mln a year earlier, and exceeded its target by 0.5 pct.    Economists said this reflected the huge investments pouredinto the oil sector in recent months in an effort to reversethe stagnation in production which began in November 1983.    Falling world oil prices last year helped cause a declinein Soviet trade with the West to 130 billion roubles from 141.6billion in 1985.    Ekonomicheskaya Gazeta said labour productivity targetswere also not fulfilled, but did not give figures.    Economists said the overall data reflected exceptionallybad weather at the start of the year and stricter qualitycontrols imposed on enterprises.    Production in the machine-building sector, a priority inMoscow's plans for economic renewal, recovered slightly inFebruary but was still 3.6 pct lower in the first two months ofthe year compared with the same period of 1986.    The figures showed that five republics produced less thanin the first two months of 1986. REUTER
JAPAN JANUARY INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION REVISED UP Japan's January seasonally adjustedindustrial production index (base 1980) was revised upwards to122.3 from a preliminary 122.0, the Ministry of InternationalTrade and Industry said.    The revised adjusted January index was down 0.5 pct fromDecember when it rose 3.6 pct from a month earlier.    The revised unadjusted January index rose 0.5 pct from ayear earlier, after a one pct year-on-year December rise.    The adjusted producers' shipment index (base 1980) forJanuary was revised upward to 117.7 from a preliminary 117.4.    The index was down 0.7 pct from December when it rose threepct from a month earlier. The revised unadjusted index was up1.0 pct from a year earlier after a 1.4 pct year-on-yearDecember rise.    The adjusted index of producers' inventories of finishedgoods (base 1980) for January was unchanged from a preliminary105.9. The index was down 0.3 pct from December when it rose1.1 pct. Unadjusted, the revised index was down 2.3 pct from ayear earlier after a 2.1 pct year-on-year drop in December. REUTER
SWEDISH INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION FALLS IN JANUARY Sweden's industrial production fell1.8 pct during January compared with a fall of 0.8 pct themonth before and remains unchanged compared with January 1986,according to figures from the Central Bureau of Statistics.    The bureau attributed the fall to a long Christmas breakand particularly cold weather, which lowered production in theforestry industry. REUTER
U.K. INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES IN JANUARY U.K. Industrial production rose aprovisional 0.4 pct in January after a 0.6 pct decline inDecember 1986, figures from the Central Statistical Officeshow.    The index for industrial production, base 1980, was set ata seasonally adjusted 109.8 in January after December's 109.4and compared with 108.2 a year earlier.    Output of manufacturing industries fell a provisional 2.3pct in January after a 0.2 pct rise last December.    The index for manufacturing, base 1980, fell to 103.9 from106.3, and compared with 102.3 a year earlier.    The CSO said industrial production in the three months toJanuary was provisionally estimated to have fallen by 0.7 pctfrom the level of the previous three months, whilemanufacturing output rose by 0.5 pct in the same period.    In the three months, industrial production was 1.5 pcthigher than in the same period a year earlier, whilemanufacturing output was two pct higher.    Within manufacturing, output of the metals industry rose bysix pct and that of engineering and allied industries by onepct between the two latest three month periods. Output ofchemicals and textiles fell by one pct and minerals by two pct.    The Office said output of the investment goods industriesrose 0.1 pct while consumer goods output increased 0.6 pct.    Output of intermediate goods fell 1.6 pct between the twolatest three-month periods.    The figures showed the energy production index, base 1980,rose 7.2 pct in January to 126.4 from December's 117.9 and from124.6 in January 1986.    In the latest three months, the energy index, whichcomprises oil, natural gas and coal production, was down 3.5pct on the previous quarter and 0.5 pct below the same period ayear earlier. REUTER
BANK OF FRANCE SEES CONTINUED INDUSTRIAL PICKUP The Bank of France expects a continuedrevival in short-term industrial activity, but the outlook forany improvement in France's record 10.9 pct unemployment rateremains bleak, the Bank of France said in its monthly review.    The upturn in activity in all industrial sectors except theagro-food sector in February more than compensated for the fallin January, while construction and civil engineeringexperienced a recovery which appears likely to extend over thenext few months.    Internal demand rose and the export situation improved, inparticular toward the European Community (EC), the Bank said.    Stocks decreases and order book levels, with the exceptionof the agro-food industry, improved substantially.    In addition, retail prices and salaries stabilised lastmonths.    Production rose in all sectors except agriculturalmachinery and aeronautics, where it stabilised, and shipconstruction, where it declined.    The car industry was the major beneficiary of the upturn inactivity in February, with both domestic and export ordersrising.    In the consumer goods sector, actitity rose sharply despitea fall in the household goods sector and stability inpharmaceuticals.    Among semi-finished products, output rose sharply, helpedby a strong growth in construction materials.    But activity in the retail sector declined slightly overthe past two months. REUTER
SOVIET ECONOMIST SAYS PRODUCTION FIGURES PADDED A leading Soviet economist said thepractice of padding figures was significantly inflating thecountry's industrial production data.    "According to the information of state monitoring organs,the padding of figures makes up one-and-a-half to three percent of the volume of production," Alexei Sergeyev told theofficial newspaper Sovetskaya Rossiya.    "In my opinion, it is significantly higher," Sergeyev, whoworks at the Economics Institute of the Soviet Union's Academyof Sciences, said.    Most Western economists have for years allowed for acertain padding of figures when analysing Soviet statistics forindustrial production.    Sergeyev said about 600 mln roubles was lost annually inraw material industries by paying wages and bonuses for workwhich was not in fact performed.    He said the elimination of figure-padding and othermalpractices would save billions of roubles and would pay forthe Soviet Union's social development program up to the year2000. REUTER
ITALIAN JANUARY INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT FALLS 3.4 PCT Italian industrial production fell 3.4 pctin January, compared with the same month last year, thenational statistics institute Istat said.    The rise follows a year-on-year increase in December 1986of 4.5 pct.    Istat's industrial production index, base 1980, notseasonally adjusted, registered 93.3, compared with 96.6 inJanuary 1986.    Istat said there were 20 working days in January, the sameas December, but one fewer than January last year.    Istat said the year-on-year fall reflected poorerperformances in the footwear, clothing, textiles, chemicals andmetals industries.    It said office machinery and data sectors, wood andfurniture, precision mechanics, oil and electricity showedimproved activity.    Calculations based on Istat figures showed industrialproduction rose 2.4 pct in January, on a month-on-month basis,after falling 12.0 pct in December over November. REUTER
DUTCH JANUARY INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION RISES 4.8 PCT Industrial production rose 4.8 pct ona seasonally-adjusted basis in January compared with Decemberwhile rising 2.8 pct from January last year, Central Bureau ofStatistics figures show.    In December, industrial production fell by 2.8 pct fromNovember while rising 2.9 pct compared with December 1985.    The industrial production index, base 1980, stood at 109 inJanuary compared with a downward revised 104 in December, whichwas initially put at 105. In January last year, the index stoodat 106 and in December 1985 at 101. REUTER
TAIWAN INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT FALLS, CURRENCY BLAMED Taiwan's industrial production index,fell, largely as the result of the rising Taiwan dollar, by8.18 pct to 140.06 (base 1981) in February from a revised152.53 in January, the Economy Ministry said.    It was the second consecutive monthly fall, after droppingnine pct in January, but it was still 26.49 pct up on February1986 following a very extended rise last year.    The January figure was revised from a preliminary 154.82.    A ministry official attributed the decline to fallingproduction of non-metal products, textiles and transportationequipment, and less mining and house construction.    The official said the decline was also caused by fallingexports in February due to the climb of the Taiwan dollar,which has made Taiwanese products more expensive.    He expected the decline to continue in the next few monthsbecause of further appreciation of the local dollar against theU.S. Currency.    The Taiwan dollar advanced more than 15 pct against theU.S. Dollar since September 1985. It closed at 34.40 to theU.S. Dollar today, and is expected to rise to about 32 to thedollar by the end of this year, foreign bankers and economistssaid. REUTER
FRENCH JANUARY INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION FELL 1.98 PCT -  Military authorities say an unnamedarmy captain has been arrested for involvement in last week'sbombing of the Philippine Military Academy.    They told reporters the arrest of the captain had beenordered after a search of his home revealed bombs andammunition.    Four people died and 40 were injured in the blast, whichPresident Aquino said was designed as an attempt on her life. Reuter
FRENCH INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION FALLS IN JANUARY French industrial production fell aseasonally adjusted 1.98 pct in January after revised unchangedoutput in December, the National Statistics Institute (INSEE)said.    The figure, which excludes construction and public works,put the January index, base 1980, at 99 after 101 in December.January output was 1.98 pct down on January 1986.    INSEE, which from January changed its base year to 1980from 1970, originally had December output down 2.2 pct onNovember, using the old base year.    INSEE said production in January was affected by railstrikes and severely cold weather.    It said output of gas and electricity was very high butactivity slowed on construction sites, in quarries and incertain base industries. REUTER
IRISH INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION INDEX UP 6.2 PCT Ireland's industrial production indexstood at 132.8 in December, a year-on-year rise of 6.2 pct, theCentral Statistics Bureau reported.    In November the index, base 1980, stood at 144.8, showing arise of 4.3 pct on a year-on-year basis. REUTER
CBI SURVEY POINTS TO SURGE IN U.K. OUTPUT British manufacturers expect output togrow rapidly in the four coming months, a Confederation ofBritish Industry (CBI) survey shows.    The CBI's monthly trends survey for March shows that 43 pctof the 1,685 polled U.K. Firms expect to raise output in thenext four months. Only nine pct expect output to fall while 47pct said production would likely remain unchanged.    The CBI said the positive balance between firms expectingproduction to rise and those forecasting a fall, at 34 pct, wasthe highest such figure recorded since 1977.    In the CBI's February survey, 37 pct of companies expecteda rise in output while 54 pct forecast production would remainat present levels and eight pct expected production to drop.    The survey also showed that 23 pct of the polled companiesconsider current order books to be above normal while 58 pctview them as normal and only 19 pct regard them as belownormal.    This was the highest positive balance since the questionwas first asked more than 10 years ago, the CBI said.    In February, the figures were 24 pct, 22 pct and 54 pctrespectively.    Companies also rated their export possibilities higher. Ofall polled companies, 23 pct rated their export order books tobe above normal and 53 pct described them as normal while only23 pct believed export orders were below normal levels.    In February, 25 pct thought their export books were belownormal and 50 pct believed them to be about normal. At 23 pct,the proportion of companies rating their export books abovenormal was unchanged between February and March.    On prices, the survey showed that 62 pct of companiesexpect average prices at which domestic orders are booked willremain unchanged in the coming four months, up from 57 pct inFebruary. Reuter
JAPAN ECONOMY MAY START BOTTOMING OUT SOON -AGENCY Japan's economy remains sluggish but isbeginning to show signs it may bottom out soon, the EconomicPlanning Agency said in a monthly report submitted to Cabinetministers.    But a bottoming out of the economy depends largely on theyen's exchange rate trend in the immediate future, Agencyofficials said.    The officials told reporters industrial production, down0.5 pct in January from December, is likely to turn positive inFebruary and to rise thereafter, raising hopes for a brightereconomic outlook.    The Agency predicted industrial production will grow 2.5pct in the current January/March quarter after falling 0.7 pctin the previous quarter.    A rise of this size would be the largest since the fourthquarter of 1984 when industrial output rose 2.7 pct, theofficials said.    They also said an expected upturn in exports would be amixed blessing as it would contribute to economic growth butwould increase the chance of trade friction.    Japanese exports contracted five pct in February fromJanuary but are likely to grow from March if the yen stabilizesaround current levels, the officials said.    They predicted exports will increase by 2.3 pct in theJanuary/March quarter from the October/December quarter.    "But the problem is imports are not expanding," said oneofficial. Imports fell by 9.4 pct in February from January. REUTER
REPORT SAYS SOVIET ECONOMIC PLANS TOO OPTIMISTIC The Soviet economy has grown at anincreased rate under Mikhail Gorbachev's leadership, but hisgoals may be too ambitious, according to a report from U.S.intelligence agencies.    The report was prepared jointly by the Central IntelligenceAgency and the Defense Intelligence Agency for theCongressional Joint Economic committee, which released it.    It said the Soviet economy grew by 4.2 pct in 1986,Gorbachev's first full year in power, twice the average rate ofgrowth over the previous 10 years.    Gorbachev's policies to improve worker attitudes, removeincompetent officials, reduce corruption and alcoholism andmodernize the country's industrial equipment accounted for someof the gains, the report said.    "Although many of the specific policies Gorbachev hasadopted are not new, the intensity Gorbachev has brought to hisefforts and his apparent commitment to finding long-termsolutions are attributes that his immediate predecessorslacked. Nonetheless, Gorbachev's program appears too ambitiouson a number of counts," the report said.    Earlier this week, two U.S. experts on the Soviet Unionsaid Gorbachev was likely to be ousted in three to four yearsif he continues his reform policies.    "I don't think he can last four years," Marshall Goldman ofHarvard University told a Congressional hearing. "He's moving sofast, he's stepping on so many toes."    A similar comment came from Peter Reddaway of theSmithsonian Institution's Kennan Institute for Advanced Russianstudies.    The economic report said meeting targets for commodityoutput would require unrealistic gains in productivity andindustrial output targets appear too high to allow time toinstall more advanced equipment.    None of Gorbachev's proposals would change the system ofeconomic incentives that has discouraged innovation andtechnological change, the report added.    "The first significant resistance to specific policies,although not overall goals, surfaced (in 1986) in both themassive government and party bureaucracy, particularly amongenterprise managers who complained that they were being askedto carry out conflicting goals -- such as to raise qualitystandards and output targets simultaneously," the report said.    The CIA-DIA report predicted two to three pct growth in theSoviet economy over the next several years. It said the SovietUnion trailed the U.S. by seven to 12 years in advancedmanufacturing technologies, such as computers andmicroprocessors. Reuter
Japan February industrial production rose 0.3 pct (0.5 pct January drop) -  First nine months ended Feb 28    Shr 47.4 cents vs 65.2    Net 603.0 mln dlrs vs 813.0 mln    Sales 6.52 billion vs 6.53 billion    Other income 454.9 mln vs 160.2 mln    Shrs 1.27 billion vs 1.03 billion.    Final div 20 cents vs same, making 37.5 vs same.    One-for-five bonus issue    Third qtr net 206.0 mln dlrs vs 238.6 mln    Third qtr sales 2.11 billion vs 2.10 billion.    NOTE - Div pay May 27. Div and bonus reg May 1. Nine monthsnet is after tax 499.1 mln dlrs vs 722.6 mln, depreciation509.5 mln vs 427.3 mln, interest 366.8 mln vs 215.8 mln andminorities 15.3 mln vs 15.7 mln but before net extraordinaryprofit 60.7 mln vs profit 43.2 mln.    Nine month divisional net earnings before minorities were.    Petroleum 184.9 mln dlrs vs 472.4 mln    Minerals 254.6 mln vs 241.0 mln    Steel 148.2 mln vs 191.1 mln    Corporate items and investments profit 30.6 mln vs loss75.8 mln. REUTER
JAPAN INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION RISES IN FEBRUARY Japan's industrial production index (base1980) rose 0.3 pct to a seasonally adjusted 122.7 in Februaryfrom the previous month, the Ministry of International Tradeand Industry said.    Output fell 0.5 pct in January from a month earlier.    The preliminary, unadjusted February index rose 0.6 pctfrom a year earlier after a 0.5 pct year-on-year rise inJanuary    The adjusted February producers' shipment index (base 1980)rose 0.7 pct to 118.5 from January when it fell 0.7 pct fromDecember.    The unadjusted shipment index rose 1.4 pct from a yearearlier after a 1.0 pct year-on-year January gain.    The adjusted February index of producers' finished goods(base 1980) fell 1.3 pct to 104.5 from January when it fell 0.3pct from December.    The unadjusted index fell 3.5 pct from a year earlier aftera 2.3 pct year-on-year drop in January.    A 2.7 pct rise by the electronics industry on higher outputof facsimile machines and video tape recorders was a majorcontributor to the rise in February industrial output, thoughcar production fell from January.    The official said industrial production is expected to rise3.2 pct in March on higher production by machinery, steel andchemical makers but will drop 3.4 pct in April on a downturn inthe output of those industries. He gave no further details. REUTER
BELGIAN DECEMBER INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT FALLS Industrial production, excludingconstruction and adjusted for the number of working days, fell1.5 pct in December from year earlier levels, the NationalStatistics Office said.    It was also a sharp 16.8 pct below the November level, itsaid.    The office said the production index, base 1980, stood at97.3 in December against an adjusted 116.9 in November and 98.8in December 1985. REUTER
HUNGARIAN ECONOMY CONTINUES UNFAVOURABLE TREND Hungary's economy and hard currencytrade have failed so far this year to reverse a two-yearunfavourable trend, the official Hungarian news agency MTIsaid.    Industrial production in January and February was only 1.3pct up on the same 1986 period, MTI said, while hard currencyexports fell six pct as imports rose 10 pct.    Hungary's hard currency trade fell into a deficit of 539.4mln dlrs last year from a surplus of 295.3 mln in 1985 and 1.2billion in 1984.    MTI quoted a government spokesman saying last December'swage freeze decree would expire on April 1 as envisaged.    Gross domestic product grew a sluggish one pct in 1986after stagnating in 1985 and growing 2.6 pct in 1984. REUTER
CANADA INDUSTRY PRICES FALL 0.2 PCT IN MONTH The Canadian industrial product priceindex, base 1981, fell 0.2 pct in February after rising 0.2 pctin January, Statistics Canada said.    "A significant part of this monthly decrease wasattributable to the impact of the increase of the Canadiandollar on prices for wood pulps, newspaper, aluminum, nickeland motor vehicles," the federal agency said.    On a year-over-year basis, the index was down 0.8 pct,little change from the 0.9 pct decline posted in January. Reuter
 German February industrial output rises 3.2 pct (January fall 3.4 pct) -  An international protocol to severelylimit the use of industrial chemicals which are believed todamage the earth's protective ozone layer could be signed thisyear, officials and scientists here said.    "By the end of this year, we should have an internationalprotocol in place we can all be proud of," U.S. Environmentalprotection agency officer Bill Long told reporters.    The chemicals are chiefly chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) whichare used in refrigeration and making foam plastics, solventsand aerosols. The earth's upper ozone layer absorbs most of theharmful ultraviolet rays from the sun.    The officials and scientists were meeting in Tokyo, aheadof an international conference on the problem later this monthin either Vienna, or Geneva, Long said.    Robert Watson, a program manager for atmospheric problemsat the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration saida protocol should demand an initial freeze on the use of CFCsby industry. This should be followed by a gradual reduction inCFC volume until no CFC gases are released into the air, hesaid. The U.S. Has already banned use of use CFCs in aerosolsand Japan has asked for voluntary restraint, but both still useCFCs in industrial processes. REUTER
GERMAN INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES 3.2 PCT IN FEBRUARY West German industrial production,seasonally adjusted, rose a provisional 3.2 pct in Februaryafter a downwards revised decline of 3.4 pct in January, theEconomics Ministry said.    The ministry had originally estimated that industrialproduction fell 3.0 pct in January.    The February figure is likely to be revised upwards by justunder one percentage point next month when the March figure isreleased, a ministry statement said.    The industrial production index, base 1980, stood at aprovisional 104.1 in February against 100.9 in January and104.5 in December. The ministry had previously put the Januaryand December indices at 101.6 and 104.7 respectively.    In February 1986 the output index had stood at 103.7,producing a year-on-year rise for February 1987 of 0.4 pct.    The February rise in production was aided by a sharp 19 pctincrease in construction output compared with January, whenproduction in many industrial sectors was depressed byunusually severe winter weather.    Manufacturing industry registered a 3-1/2 pct rise inproduction in February compared with January. But energy sectoroutput fell nine pct and mining production declined seven pct.    The ministry, which considers two-monthly comparisons to bea better guide to trends, said output in January and Februarytogether fell around two pct against November and December.    The ministry said construction output fell 13-1/2 pct inJanuary/February against November/December due to the coldJanuary weather. Output in the energy sector rose four pct andmining output 10 pct.    Manufacturing industry's production fell 1-1/2 pct inJanuary/February compared with November/December.    Within this sector, the output of both basic products andof food, tobacco and alcohol fell 1-1/2 pct. Production ofcapital goods fell 2-1/2 pct while output of consumer goods wasunchanged.    Compared with the same months of 1986, industrialproduction in January and February 1987 fell 1-1/2 pct, theministry said.    Manufacturing industry output fell one pct, with output ofbasic products down three pct, capital goods down one pct andfood, tobacco and alcohol production 1-1/2 pct lower. Makers ofconsumer goods posted a 1-1/2 pct year-on-year rise in thetwo-month period.    In other industrial sectors, mining production fell fourpct and construction output 4-1/2 pct. The energy sector saw aslight 1/2 pct rise, the ministry added. REUTER
GERMAN INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES 3.2 PCT IN FEBRUARY West German industrial production,seasonally adjusted, rose a provisional 3.2 pct in Februaryafter a downwards revised decline of 3.4 pct in January, theEconomics Ministry said.    The ministry had originally estimated that industrialproduction fell 3.0 pct in January.    The February figure is likely to be revised upwards by justunder one percentage point next month when the March figure isreleased, a ministry statement said.    The industrial production index, base 1980, stood at aprovisional 104.1 in February against 100.9 in January and104.5 in December. The ministry had previously put the Januaryand December indices at 101.6 and 104.7 respectively.    In February 1986 the output index had stood at 103.7,producing a year-on-year rise for February 1987 of 0.4 pct.    The February rise in production was aided by a sharp 19 pctincrease in construction output compared with January, whenproduction in many industrial sectors was depressed byunusually severe winter weather.    Manufacturing industry registered a 3-1/2 pct rise inproduction in February compared with January. But energy sectoroutput fell nine pct and mining production declined seven pct.    The ministry, which considers two-monthly comparisons to bea better guide to trends, said output in January and Februarytogether fell around two pct against November and December.    The ministry said construction output fell 13-1/2 pct inJanuary/February against November/December due to the coldJanuary weather. Output in the energy sector rose four pct andmining output 10 pct.    Manufacturing industry's production fell 1-1/2 pct inJanuary/February compared with November/December.    Within this sector, the output of both basic products andof food, tobacco and alcohol fell 1-1/2 pct. Production ofcapital goods fell 2-1/2 pct while output of consumer goods wasunchanged. Reuter
SWISS 1988 INFLATION SEEN AT TWO PCT - INSTITUTE Swiss inflation is likely to rise in 1987and 1988 because of inflationary tendencies in the domesticeconomy, the Centre for Economic Research of the FederalInstitute of Technology said in its spring review.    It forecast a rise in consumer prices of two pct in 1988compared with 1.3 pct in 1987. Low import prices in 1986 helpedto keep annual inflation down to 0.8 pct.    The centre said that in general the outlook for the Swisseconomy in 1987 and 1988 remained favourable, despite the moredifficult international economic climate facing exportindustry.    The centre repeated its previous forecast that growth inSwiss domestic product would slow to 2.2 pct in 1987 from 2.5pct in 1986. It revised its forecast for 1988 GDP growth to 1.7pct from 1.6 pct in its last autumn review.    Domestic demand will continue to replace exports as themotor of economic growth. Private consumption will grow bythree pct in 1987 and two pct in 1988 against 3.75 pct in 1986.    Growth in goods exports will slow to 1.75 pct in 1987 from2.1 pct in 1986 but pick up slightly to 2.5 pct in 1988. Allthree figures are well below the Swiss average for recentyears. In 1985, for example, exports increased by 9.1 pct.    The centre said the strength of the Swiss franc, which hasfirmed sharply in recent months, would continue to put pressureon Swiss exporters.    It forecast that imports of goods would grow by a moremodest 4.5 pct in 1987 and 3.25 pct in 1988 than in 1986, whenimport prices fell substantially and imports rose by 8.2 pct.    Industrial production will grow by 1.6 pct in 1987 and 1.2pct in 1988 compared with 4.2 pct in 1986. REUTER
INSTITUTE SEES W.GERMAN OUTPUT FALL IN 1987 Production in the manufactured goodsindustry has been falling since mid-1986 and will decline bybetween one and two pct this year after a 2.5 pct increase in1986, the Ifo economic institute said.    An Ifo report said recessionary influences were affectingthe engineering industry particularly. It saw a decline of twoto three pct in this sector after a 5.2 pct rise in 1986.    Orders, especially from abroad, were also falling sharplyfor capital goods in the electronics sector, it added.    Ifo also predicted stagnation in the automobile industry in1987 after a particularly successful 1986 when production rose5.1 pct.    Chemical industry production, which fell by 0.9 pct lastyear, was likely to stagnate or decline by one pct in 1987.This sector suffered from slack demand from abroad and from lowdomestic consumption. REUTER
CHINA INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES IN FIRST QUARTER China's industrial output rose 14.1 pctin the first quarter of 1987 against the same 1986 period, thePeople's Daily said.    Its overseas edition said the growth rate, which compareswith a target of seven pct for the whole of 1987, was "ratherhigh" but the base in the first quarter of 1986 was on the lowside. Industrial output grew 4.4 pct in the first quarter of1986.    It said China's industrial production this year has beennormal but product quality and efficiency need furtherimprovement. It gave no further details. REUTER
SWEDISH INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION RISES SHARPLY Swedish industrial production rose2.6 pct in February, after a 1.8 pct fall in January, showing a4.4 pct rise over February 1986 and reaching its highest levelever, the Central Bureau of Statistics said.    The rise reflected recovery in almost all sectors after anexceptionally cold spell in January, the Bureau said, addingthat the highest rises were seen in the forest, chemical andmetal industries. REUTER
FRENCH INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION RISES IN FEBRUARY French industrial production rose aseasonally adjusted three pct in February after an unrevised1.98 pct fall in January, the National Statistics Institute(INSEE) said.    The figure, which excludes construction and public works,put the February index, base 1980, at 102 after 99 in January.    INSEE changed its base year to 1980 from 1970 last month. Reuter
BANK OF FRANCE SEES PICKUP IN INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY The Bank of France said in its latestmonthly report on the French economy it expected a pickup inindustrial production registered in March to gather steam overthe next few months.    Without giving figures, the report said last month's rise,partly linked to efforts to catch up with production lostearlier this year through industrial action, was due mainly toa firming of domestic demand.    "New progress is expected in all main sectors except capitalgoods where production will remain at its present level," thereport added.    The upbeat report comes in the wake of grim March tradebalance figures which showed a deficit in industrial trade forthe first time since June 1982.    While the automobile industry remained unchanged frompreviously boosted levels, consumer goods production grew andwas expected to accelerate except in the area of domesticappliances. Semi-finished goods showed a clear increase in allsectors. Construction and civil engineering, boosted by a risein public works, also improved, while retail trade sales in allsectors continued to slow. REUTER
TAIWAN INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES SHARPLY IN MARCH Taiwan's industrial production index,base 1981, rose 14.21 pct to 162.19 in March from a revised142.01 in February, and 7.19 pct from March 1986, the EconomicMinistry said.    The February figure was revised from a preliminary 140.06.    A ministry official said the March index stood at itshighest level since the 169.94 set in December 1986.    He attributed the increase to rising production oftextiles, wooden and bamboo products, plastics, machinery,electronics, transportation equipment, mining and houseconstruction. REUTER
NORTH KOREA PLANS TO EXPAND TRADE, OUTPUT North Korea unveiled plans to boostindustrial and agricultural production sharply over the nextseven years and to greatly expand its foreign trade.    Prime Minister Li Gun-mo told the eighth Supreme People'sAssembly in Pyongyang that North Korea intends to increaseinternational trade by 220 pct in the period 1987/93, grossindustrial output by 90 pct and agricultural production by 40pct, according to the North Korean Central News Agency,monitored here. REUTER
NORTH KOREA PLANS TO EXPAND OUTPUT AND TRADE North Korea unveiled plans to boostindustrial and agricultural production over the next sevenyears and to greatly expand trade with other nations, theofficial North Korean Central News Agency, monitored in Tokyo,reported.    Prime Minister Li Gun-mo told the eighth Supreme People'sAssembly in Pyongyang agricultural production will rise 1.4times in the period of the new seven-year plan, the agencysaid.    "For a more satisfactory solution of the problem of food,clothing and housing for the people, a 15 mln tonne target ofgrain will be hit...And 1.5 billion metres of textiles will beproduced annually," he said.    Annual output of non-ferrous metals will be lifted to morethan 1.7 mln tonnes in the seven year plan, the agency quotedLi as saying.    During the previous seven-year plan North Korea achievedannual output of 10 mln tonnes of grain. Chemical fertilizerproduction hit an annual target of five mln tonnes. He did notprovide any other figures. REUTER
TAIWAN INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES SHARPLY IN MARCH Taiwan's industrial production index,base 1981, rose 14.21 pct to 162.19 in March from a revised142.01 in February, and 7.19 pct from March 1986, the EconomicMinistry said.    The February figure was revised from a preliminary 140.06.    A ministry official said the March index stood at itshighest level since the 169.94 set in December 1986.    He attributed the increase to rising production oftextiles, wooden and bamboo products, plastics, machinery,electronics, transportation equipment, mining and houseconstruction. REUTER
ZIMBABWE BANKING CORP URGES POLICY REFORM A range of substantial policyinitiatives need to be implemented to shift resources fromconsumption to production in the Zimbabwe economy, says theZimbabwe Banking Corporation (ZBC) in its quarterly economicreview.    The state owned banking group says although Zimbabwe'sbalance of payments improved significantly last year theunderlying position deteriorated. Last year's improved tradesurplus was partly the result of sales of stockpiled gold andcontinued import restraint.    It says debt service charges are projected to exceed 35 pctof exports in 1987 and warns against squeezing imports further.    ZBC says mining industry import quotas for the first sixmonths of 1987 have been halved and those for manufacturingindustry cut by a third.    It contrasts the performance of manufacturing industry in1967 to 1974, with that since independence in 1980. Industrialproduction almost doubled between 1967 and 1974, when foreigncurrency allocations almost trebled in real terms.    Since 1980, import allocations have been cut 45 pct and theZimbabwe dollar has depreciated by more than 60 pct. As aresult the bank says the external purchasing power of foreigncurrency allocations is currently only 20 pct of its 1980levels. REUTER
U.S. PRODUCTIVITY REPORT RESCHEDULED TO MAY 4 The Labor Department said itrescheduled the release of the first-quarter nonfarmproductivity report to May 4 at 1000 EDT (1400 GMT) from April27.    The delay was necessary because the Commerce Departmentmoved back release of national income and product data used bythe Labor Department to compute productivity. Reuter
SOVIETS SAY 1987 ECONOMIC RESULTS UNSATISFACTORY The Soviet government said economicresults achieved in the first three months of the year wereunsatisfactory, the official news agency Tass said.    Soviet industrial production from January to March grew by2.5 per cent compared with the same period last year, but fellshort of its target by 0.8 percent, official statistics showed.    "The Council of Ministers (government) emphasised that theresults did not meet the Communist Party's exacting demands forthe radical reconstruction of the economy," Tass said. "The firstquarter economic results were deemed unsatisfactory."    The government said poor economic results last January,when industrial production was 0.1 lower than in January 1986,had been overcome to a considerable extent in March, but thenegative effects had not been completely eliminated.     It singled out failings in the engineering, chemical andtimber industries, as well as light industry.    Growth in the machine-building sector, a priority inKremlin plans for economic renewal, also fell short of targetby 4.2 per cent, with below-level output in nearly all branchesat a cost of 723 million roubles (1.08 billion dollars) inundelivered products.    The sales volume of consumer goods fell 2.7 per cent shortof planned growth, with a resulting decline in income to thestate, the figures showed.    Foreign trade turnover totalled 27.5 billion roubles (41.25billion dollars), or 4.8 billion roubles (7.2 billion dollars)less than in the same period last year.    The power industry, however, performed well. Output of oil,electricity, gas and coal were all above plan. Reuter
SOVIET GOVT SAYS ECONOMIC RESULTS UNSATISFACTORY The Soviet government said economicresults achieved in the first three months of the year wereunsatisfactory, the official news agency Tass said.    Soviet industrial production from January to March grew by2.5 pct compared with the same period last year, but fell shortof its target by 0.8 pct, official statistics showed.    "The Council of Ministers (government) emphasised that theresults did not meet the Communist Party's exacting demands forthe radical reconstruction of the economy," Tass said. "The firstquarter economic results were deemed unsatisfactory."     It singled out failings in the engineering, chemical andtimber industriess, as well as light industry. Reuter
JAPAN INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION RISES IN MARCH Japan's preliminary industrial productionindex (base 1980) rose 0.7 pct to a seasonally adjusted 122.8in March from the previous month, the Ministry of InternationalTrade and Industry said.    Production had fallen 0.2 in Feburary from a month earlier.    The preliminary, unadjusted March index fell 0.2 pct from ayear earlier after remaining flat in Feburary.    The adjusted March producers' shipment index (same base)fell 0.6 to 117.3 from February. The unadjusted index rose 0.3pct from a year earlier.    The adjusted March index of producers' inventories offinished goods (same base) rose 0.7 pct to 105.4 from Feburary.The unadjusted index fell 1.1 pct from a year earlier. REUTER
JAPAN INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION RISES IN MARCH Japan's preliminary industrial productionindex (base 1980) rose 0.7 pct to a seasonally adjusted 122.8in March from the previous month, the Ministry of InternationalTrade and Industry said.    Production had fallen 0.2 in Feburary from a month earlier.    The preliminary, unadjusted March index fell 0.2 pct from ayear earlier after remaining flat in Feburary.    The adjusted March producers' shipment index (same base)fell 0.6 to 117.3 from February. The unadjusted index rose 0.3pct from a year earlier.    The adjusted March index of producers' inventories offinished goods (same base) rose 0.7 pct to 105.4 from Feburary.The unadjusted index fell 1.1 pct from a year earlier. REUTER
CHINA'S WAGE BILL GREW TOO FAST IN FIRST QUARTER China's total wage bill for stateemployees grew too fast in the first quarter, because ofexcessive bonuses, allowances and overtime pay, the officialEconomic Information newspaper said.    It said the total wage bill in the period was 38.7 billionyuan, an increase of 16.7 pct over the first quarter of 1986,when the bill grew a year-on-year 16.3 pct. The increaseaccounted for 39.6 pct of planned wage rises in all of 1987.    It said bonus payments rose a 42.6 pct, far in excess ofgrowth in productivity. Industrial output grew a 14.1 pct inthe period.    The newspaper said state allowances rose in the period by20 pct over the corresponding 1986 quarter, with some areas andwork units increasing coal and electricity allowances on theirown without proper authorisation.    It said overtime pay rose a year-on-year 32 pct, with someenterprises ignoring official regulations in their payments. REUTER
BELGIAN FEBRUARY INDUSTRY OUTPUT DOWN ON YEAR AGO Belgian industrial production, excludingconstruction and adjusted for seasonal and calendar influences,was provisionally 0.6 pct lower in February than a yearearlier, the National Statistics Office said.    Output in February was, however, 5.9 pct higher than inJanuary.    A spokeswoman for the office said the production index,base 1980, rose to a provisional 108.8 in February from aprovisional 102.7 in January, slightly revised from the 102.8originally estimated. In February last year the index stood at109.5. REUTER
SWEDISH INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION RISES IN APRIL Swedish industrial production rose 1.5pct in April after a 2.2 pct fall in March and a rise of 3.8pct in April 1986, according to preliminary figures from theCentral Bureau of Statistics.    The bureau said the April rise occurred in most of thesector, with the greatest advances in the paper products andchemicals industries. REUTER
DUTCH INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION FALLS 6.4 PCT IN APRIL Dutch seasonally adjusted industrialproduction fell by 6.4 pct in April compared with the previousmonth, and was 5.5 pct down on the same period last year,figures from the official Statistics Bureau CBS show.    The April index, base 1980, stood at 103. In March,industrial production rose by 2.8 pct from February.    The unadjusted April index figure fell 14 pct from March to104, compared with a 10 pct rise in March over February. REUTER
 French industrial production fell 0.95 pct in July/August from June -- IN Shr profit five cts vs profit seven cts    Net profit 59,000 vs profit 39,000    Nine mths    Shr profit 12 cts vs loss four cts    Net profit 92,000 vs loss 20,000    Avg shrs 775,000 vs 548,000 Reuter
SOVIETS OUTLINE 1988 ECONOMIC TARGETS The Soviet Union outlined its economictargets for 1988 on Monday, stressing the need to improvestandards in the country's sluggish engineering industry.    Planning chief Nikolai Talyzin told the Supreme Sovietindustrial output should rise by 4.5 pct in 1988, up from aplanned 4.4 pct in 1987. It rose 3.6 pct in Jan-Sept 1987.    Talyzin said national income, the nearest Soviet equivalentto gross national product, should rise by 4.3 pct against aplanned 4.1 pct this year. Gross national product measures theoutput of a country's goods and services.    He said the Kremlin planned to produce 235 mln tonnes ofgrain in 1988 versus a planned 232 mln this year. Moscowproduced 210 mln tonnes in 1986.    Kremlin leader Mikhail Gorbachev has describedmachine-builing as a sector whose rapid modernization isessential if the Soviet Union is to compete effectively onworld markets.    "Certain difficulties have arisen this year in themachine-building industry. The economy is not receiving aconsiderable amount of the equipment that it requires," saidTalyzin, who heads the state planning committee GOSPLAN.    Soviet data show the machine-building industry, which makesmachine tools, instruments and other engineering goods,increased output by 3.3 pct in the first nine months of 1987compared with the same period last year.    However, this was far below the 7.3 pct increase plannedfor the industry for the whole of 1988.    Talyzin said the ruling Politburo had concluded at a recentmeeting that an improvement in economic performance depended toa large extent on conserving resources better. "Large-scalemeasures are planned to save resources," he said.    Finance Minister Boris Gostev told the Supreme Soviet thatdefense spending in 1988 would total 32 billion dlrs, the samefigure as was announced last year.    Western governments view official Soviet estimates fordefense spending as highly understated, but say the real figureis hard to calculate because Soviet military industries areintertwined with the civilian economy.    Talyzin said the Kremlin also decided to increase spendingnext year on medical services, education, pensions and socialinsurance schemes. Reuter
SOVIET UNION SETS 4.5 PCT INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT GROWTH Soviet Planning chief Nikolai Talyzin toldthe Supreme Soviet (parliament) industrial output is planned torise by 4.5 pct in 1988, up from a planned 4.4 pct in 1987.    In the first nine months of this year, industrial outputrose by 3.6 pct.    Talyzin said national income, the nearest Soviet equivalentto gross national product, is planned to rise by 4.3 pctagainst a planned 4.1 pct this year.    He said grain production is planned at 235 mln tonnes in1988, compared with a planned 232 mln this year.    The Soviet Union produced 210 mln tonnes of grain in 1986and the Soviet press has said heavy rain has affected theharvest this year.    Talyzin said the 1988 Soviet plan stressed the engineeringindustry, which Kremlin leader Mikhail Gorbachev has describedas a sector where rapid modernisation is essential if theSoviet Union is to compete effectively on world markets.    "Certain difficulties have arisen this year in themachine-building industry. The economy is not receiving aconsiderable amount of the equipment that it requires," saidTalyzin, who heads the state planning committee Gosplan.    Soviet data show the machine-building industry, which makesmachine tools, instruments and other engineering goods,increased output by 3.3 pct in the first nine months of thisyear against the same period of 1986. This is well below the7.3 pct rise planned for the industry for all of 1988.    Talyzin said the ruling Politburo concluded at a recentmeeting that an improvement in economic performance depended toa large extent on conserving resources better. "Large-scalemeasures are planned to save resources," he said.    Finance Minister Boris Gustev told the Supreme Sovietdefence spending in 1988 would total 20.2 billion roubles, thesame as announced last year.    Talyzin said the Kremlin also had decided to increasespending next year on medical services, education, pensions andsocial insurance schemes    He said state expenditures in these fields would reach 171billion roubles in 1988, or 3.5 billion roubles more than hadoriginally been envisaged in the 1986-1990 Five-Year Plan. REUTER
SOVIET INDUSTRIAL GROWTH/TRADE SLOWER IN 1987 The Soviet Union's industrial output isgrowing at a slower pace in 1987 than in 1986 and foreign tradehas fallen, Central Statistical Office figures show.    Figures in the Communist Party newspaper Pravda showindustrial production rose 3.6 pct in the first nine months of1987 against 5.2 pct in the same 1986 period.    Foreign trade in the same period fell 3.6 pct from the 1986period as exports fell by 0.5 pct and imports dropped by 4.2pct.    Foreign trade in the nine months totalled 94.2 billionroubles. Separate import and export figures were not given.    One factor affecting industrial growth was the introductionof a new quality control plan, Western economists said. Lastyear's calculations of industrial output included all goods,irrespective of quality.    Under the new plan, introduced in line with Soviet leaderMikhail Gorbachev's drive to modernise the economy, specialinspectors have the right to reject goods they consider belowstandard.    Pravda said 42 mln roubles worth of defective goods wererejected in the nine-month period.    The figures also showed that on October 1, there were morethan 8,000 cooperative enterprises employing over 80,000people. More than 200,000 were employed in the private sector,Pravda said, without giving comparative figures.    The promotion of the cooperative and private sectors of theeconomy has been an important part of the modernisationcampaign, with measures introduced recently to allow thesetting up of small shops on a private basis.    Labour productivity rose 3.7 pct in the first nine monthsagainst 4.8 pct growth in January to September 1986.    But western economists said they treat Soviet productivityfigures with caution, as they are more broadly based than inthe West, which measures worker output over a given period.    Pravda said there were 283.8 mln people in the Soviet Unionas of October 1. In the January to September 1987 period 118.5mln people were employed, a rise of 4.4 pct on the same periodlast year. Average earnings were 200 roubles a month against194 roubles a year ago. REUTER
