EC COMMISSION GIVEN PLAN TO SAVE STEEL INDUSTRY European Community steelmakerspresented the Executive Commission with a controversial planfor the future of the industry which diplomats say it may beforced reluctantly to accept.    Under the plan steel output would remain subject torestrictive quotas and imports would be firmly controlled foryears to come while steel firms undertook a massiveslimming-down operation to adjust capacity to lower demand.    Industry Commissioner Karl-Heinz Narjes has proposed theending of the quota system by December 1988.    He has proposed a return to the free market, which under EClaw is supposed to exist except in times of "manifest crisis."    But diplomats said some ministers who meet to discuss thisidea on March 19 will argue that steel firms are in crisis intheir countries, with orders falling as customers switch toalternative products and accounts firmly in the red.    Ministers from the EC's major steel producing countries arelikely to shy away from Narjes' proposals and could back theindustry's own plan instead, in the hope of minimising thepolitical impact of plant closures, they said.    Industry sources said the plan presented to Narjes by theEC steelmakers' lobby group Eurofer would retain the quotaproduction system at least until the end of 1990.    Eurofer said in a statement consultants working for itidentified scope for closing plants on a "voluntary" basis toreduce capacity by 15.26 mln tonnes a year.    Cuts were still insufficient in one production area, thatof hot rolled coils, and further talks were needed.    Eurofer added the industry would need the support of theCommission and governments in carrying out a closure program,particularly with social costs such as redundancy payments.    The EC steel industry has already shed 240,000 jobs thisdecade while reducing annual capacity by 31 mln tonnes. Reuter
NIGERIA, GUINEA SET UP IRON ORE FIRM WITH LIBERIA Nigeria and Guinea agreed to set up a newcompany with Liberia to carry out the 14-year-oldMifergui-Nimba iron ore project, an official communique said.    The communique was issued after two days of talks herebetween Guinean natural resources minister Ousmane Sylla andNigerian minister of mines and power Bunu Sheriff Musa.    Originally, Guinea held 50 pct in the project and Nigeria16.2 pct with firms from several other countries also involved,but the project ran into problems over funding and the slump inworld iron ore markets.    Musa said Liberia was invited to join and its share will bedecided after a project feasibility study. This would becompleted in May after which finance will be sought. Officialssaid the study will be undertaken with the help of the WorldBank, which is also expected to give financial support.    Production, originally estimated at 15 mln tonnes a year,will be 12 mln initially and is expected to begin in early1990.    On an agreement between the two countries to prospect foruranium in Guinea, the communique said Musa and Sylla agreedthat because of poor market conditions, it would be extended tocover exploration for gold, diamonds, cobalt, nickel andsilver. Reuter
INDIA AND JAPAN TO DISCUSS IRON ORE PRICES The state-owned Minerals and MetalsTrading Corp will send a team to Japan next week to negotiatean iron ore export contract for 1987/88 beginning April 1,trade sources said.    Japan, the biggest buyer of Indian iron ore with imports ofaround 23 mln tonnes a year, has asked India to reduce pricesfrom the current average of 18 dlrs a tonne, the sources said.    "Japan has said it may be forced to reduce ore imports fromIndia next year if New Delhi fails to reduce the price," onesource said, but declined to give further details. REUTER
USSR TO CUT COAL PRICE FOR JAPANESE STEELMILLS The Soviet Union has agreed to cut itscoking coal export prices to Japanese steel mills by about fivedlrs a tonne in 1987/88 starting April 1 in exchange for anincrease in export volume, industry sources said.    The prices were set at 44 dlrs a tonne for Neryungrinskycoal and at 43.80 dlrs for Kuznetsky coal, fob.    Japan will import a total of 4.9 mln tonnes from bothareas, up from 4.2 mln a year earlier, they said.    The steelmakers had asked Moscow to agree to a cutback to3.7 mln tonnes in 1987/88, but the Soviet Union urged Japan toincrease the amount to 6.5 mln, they said. REUTER
NIPPON STEEL, INLAND DISCUSSING U.S. JOINT VENTURE Nippon Steel Corp <NSTC.T> and <InlandSteel Co> of the U.S. Are negotiating to set up a joint steelventure in Indiana, a Nippon Steel spokesman said, declining togive more details.    Several local newspapers reported the joint venture wouldbe capitalised at 150 mln dlrs, owned 60 pct by Inland and 40pct by Nippon Steel, and have annual production capacity of onemln tonnes of steel to supply car makers. REUTER
USX <X> PROVED OIL, GAS RESERVES FALL IN 1986 USX Corp said proved reserves of oiland natural gas liquids fell 28 pct to 802.8 mln barrels at theend of 1986 from 1.12 billion barrels at year-end 1985.    The figures, in USX's just-released 1986 annual report,indicate much of the drop resulted from the exclusion of 293.7mln barrels of Libyan reserves, after the U.S. government lastJune directed U.S. oil companies to end Libyan operations.    USX, which owns Marathon Oil Co and Texas Oil and Gas Corp,had 60 pct of its 1986 sales of 14.94 billion dlrs from its oiland gas operations.    About 24 pct of total sales came from USX's USS steel unitand 16 pct from diversified businesses, which include oilfieldservices, raw materials, minerals, chemicals and real estate.    According to the report, domestic liquids reserves fellslightly to 628.5 mln barrels from 628.9 mln and foreignreserves fell to 174.3 mln from 486.4 mln barrels. The largedrop in foreign reserves was in the Middle East and Africa,where they fell to about 9.3 mln barrels from 316.7 mln,reflecting the exclusion of Libya.    Total natural gas reserves fell to 4.82 trillion cubic feetat year-end 1986 from 5.18 trillion at the end of 1985.    Again, most of the drop came from the Middle East andAfrica, where reserves fell to zero from 71.9 billion cubicfeet, excluding Libyan reserves.    U.S. natural gas reserves fell to 3.44 trillion cubic feetfrom 3.65 trillion and foreign reserves fell to 1.38 trillionfrom 1.53 trillion.    In other areas, USX said total capital spending fell to 962mln dlrs in 1986 from 1.78 billion dlrs in 1985. The 1986audited figure is eight mln dlrs higher than the unauditedfigure the company reported on Jan 27.    USX also said it expects to record a gain of 150 mln dlrsin 1988, representing 50 pct of previously existing investmenttax credits allowable under the new tax law. The loss of theother half of the credits was reflected in the fourth quarter.    In a discussion of steel results, USX said plants that wereshut down last month and some previously idled plants may bepermanently closed. USX took a fourth quarter charge of 1.03billion dlrs to restructure its steel operations. The chargeincluded the "indefinite idling" last month of four plants inUtah, Pennsylvania and Texas.    Other plants or parts of plants in Pennsylvania, Indiana,Alabama, Ohio and Chicago had been previously idled.    "These operations are not permanently shut down. Improvedmarket conditions for the products from these plants may makeit feasible to reopen some of them," USX said in the report.    "On the other hand, a lack of any future market improvementmay necessitate their permanent closing," it added. Reuter
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - MITSUBISHI HEAVY FIGHTS BACK International efforts to redirect Japan'sexport-driven economy toward domestic consumption face heavygoing if the country's largest defence contractor and world'sbiggest shipbuilder is anything to go by.    Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd <MITH.T> (MHI), which beganmaking ships and iron goods for Japan's military rulers 130years ago, is responding to the strong yen by redoubling itsefforts to maintain its share of export markets.    "If we sell the best quality and the cheapest products,everyone will buy them," MHI president Yotaro Iida said.    Although two of MHI's main businesses, shipbuilding andpower plant construction, have been hit hard by the yen's 40pct rise against the dollar, the company has no plans toabandon them, Iida told Reuters in an interview.    Its other big activity, aircraft component manufacture, hasperformed so well that MHI now accounts for half of the moneyTokyo spends on defence procurement each year.    "We have made the utmost efforts among the world'smanufacturers to improve productivity," he said. "You may besurprised if you come to see our plants. The outside is old butthe inside is ultra-modern, with robots and computers."    Securities analysts at major securities houses agreed thatMHI has pared costs more quickly than its competitors. Thecompany has slashed its workforce to 47,000 from 86,000 in1976.    Despite its cost-cutting, MHI expects profits to drop 40pct to 30 billion yen in the current fiscal year ending March31, from 1985/86's record 50.14 billion.    And that includes gains from the sale of MHI's stake inMitsubishi Motors Corp <MIMT.T> for 49 billion yen.    Iida is optimistic about the future, however. He said aresurgence of demand from the Middle East following the recentrecovery in oil prices coupled with persistent demand for powerplants in developing countries will help MHI restore itsexports-to-sales ratio to the past decade's average of 30 pct.    MHI's exports-to-sales ratio fell to 25.9 pct in thehalf-year ended last September, from 35 to 36 pct five yearsago.    China is the most promising market, although MHI alsoconsiders other non-oil-producing developing countries as majorcustomers.    "Our customers are all seen as being in trouble due to alack of foreign currency," Iida said. But he added that he feltMHI could sell to those markets with Japanese governmentfinancial support.    It can also finance the plants itself and recover itsinvestment through product sales, a strategy Iida said couldprove popular in the future.    In shipping, MHI is fighting back against low-priced SouthKorean competition by building more technologically advancedcarriers to carry liquefied natural gas and other productsdifficult to transport.    Shipbuilders Association officials told Reuters MHI is theworld's largest shipbuilder in terms of orders and capacity.    Domestically, MHI is involved in 12 national projects,including development of nuclear fusion reactors and launchvehicles for man-made satellites.    It has been the biggest contractor for the Japan DefenceAgency's F-15 and F-14 jet fighters and missiles, although allof these have been built under licence from U.S. Firms.    MHI is now heading up five Japanese companies seeking todevelop the country's own fighter plane to replace thecurrently used F-1 support fighters in the late 1990s.    Military experts said Washington is putting strong pressureon Tokyo to buy a U.S. Plane, either the McDonnell Douglas CorpF-18 or General Dynamics Corp F-16, to reduce Japan's hugetrade surplus with the U.S.    "It might be a good idea to jointly produce planes with U.S.Makers as Japan is supported by the U.S. Defence umbrella," Iidasaid.    MHI also plans to cooperate with the U.S. In its StrategicDefence Initiative space defence program by participating inthe project when it moves from the research stage, he said.    The U.S. Has been seeking Japan's technological support.    In fiscal 1985/86, aircraft accounted for 17.1 pct of MHI'ssales, shipbuilding 17 pct and power plants 27.9 pct. Iida saidthe ideal ratio is power plants 30 pct, aircraft and specialvehicles 25 pct and shipbuilding 15 pct.    As for the remaining 30 pct, Iida said he wanted to shiftthe domestic focus away from heavy machinery sold tomanufacturers and towards household goods, but he declined tospecify which products.    "By the end of this year, you may find our brand name onyour daily products, although this does not mean we will runaway from our mainstream business," he said. REUTER
EC COMMISSION HAS OPEN ATTITUDE ON STEEL QUOTAS The EC Commission said it wasadopting an "open attitude" about whether a system of productionquotas should remain for the indefinite future on heavy steelproducts which account for about 45 pct of all EC steel goods.    In a statement, the Commission reiterated its view that theindustry needs to lose between 25 and 30 mln tonnes of capacityby 1990. It had previously said the quota system, started in1980, should be wound up completely by the end of next year.    The industry has argued for the maintenance of existingquotas, which cover almost 70 pct of all output, saying almostall steelmakers are losing money due to the depressed market. Reuter
YUGOSLAV 1990 STEEL OUTPUT TO HIT 6.3 MLN TONNES Yugoslavian steel output will rise byone mln tonnes to 6.3 mln tonnes a year between 1986 and 1990under a development program adopted by the Yugoslav Iron andSteel Metallurgy Association, the official Tanjug news agencysaid.    The association groups together the main Yugoslav iron andsteel enterprises.    Extraction of iron ore should show an annual growth rate ofnine pct and reach seven mln tonnes by 1990 under the program.Iron output is planned to grow at eight pct a year, reaching4.5 mln tonnes at the end of the decade.    Tanjug said the programme would create conditions forraising exports of finished steel products.    The main Yugoslav steel producers plan to market 5.35 mlntonnes of steel goods this year, or 150,000 tonnes more thanlast year, with 1.5 mln tonnes going to export. REUTER
INDIA TO GET U.K. COAL, STEEL INDUSTRY GRANTS India will get 104.65 mln stg asgrants from Britain to develop its coal, zinc and leadindustries, the British Information Services said in astatement.    It said a 31 mln stg grant would be disbursed over three tofour years under an agreement signed here yesterday between theIndian Finance Ministry and the British Overseas DevelopmentAdministration.    The British grants for developing the Indian coal industryusing British mechanised longwall technology totalled 52 mlnstg in the past 10 years, it said.    Under a separate agreement, the British government agreedto provide 73.65 mln stg as a grant to develop a zinc and leadmine at Rampura-Agucha and an associated smelting complex atChaneriya, both in India's northern state of Rajasthan, thestatement said.    The grant will finance the basic engineering for thesmelter complex to be undertaken by Britain's <Davy McKee> ofStockton. It will also help develop the mine complex, it added. REUTER
PAKISTAN-SWEDISH GOODS EXCHANGE AGREED Pakistan and Sweden have signed acommodity exchange agreement for 88 mln dlrs each way, thePakistan government announced.    Pakistan's exports under the agreement will include rawcotton, cotton products, cotton textiles, steel products,molasses, naphtha and fresh and dried fruits.    Swedish exports to Pakistan will include medical andlaboratory equipment, electrical telecommunication equipment,diesel engine spares, mining and security equipment,road-building and construction machinery, fertilisers and palmoil. Reuter
TAIWAN STEEL FIRM SEES LOWER EXPORTS, MORE OUTPUT State-owned <China Steel Corp> said itssteel exports will drop to some 600,000 tonnes in the yearending June 30, 1987 from more than 810,000 in 1985/86.    Production by the company, Taiwan's largest steel maker, isexpected to rise to 3.33 mln tonnes from 3.27 mln, a spokesmantold Reuters.    He attributed the export decline to the rise in the Taiwandollar, which has eroded the competitiveness of the company'sproducts against those from South Korea.    The spokesman said the company is undergoing an expansionproject which calls for a boost in production to 5.65 mlntonnes a year from the current level. The project, costing 52.3billion Taiwan dlrs, will be completed by April 1988, twomonths ahead of the targetted date, he said.    The spokesman said the company exports its products toJapan, Southeast Asia, Hong Kong, the U.S., The Middle East andAfrica. REUTER
EC MINISTERS AGREE NEED FOR BIG STEEL CLOSURES European Community (EC) industryministers today declared there is a need for a massive round ofclosures of steel plants to bring capacity in the 12-countrybloc into reasonable balance with demand.    The ministers were meeting to discuss a plan for voluntaryplant closures drawn up by the industry lobby group Euroferwhich it calculates would cost around 22,000 jobs.    Diplomats said that in their initial reactions to thescheme, most ministers declared it was a useful basis fordiscussion, but did not go nearly far enough.    Eurofer says it has identified scope for the closure ofplants which have an annual capacity of 15.26 mln tonnes,provided the companies concerned can be fully repaid by the ECor national governments for redundancy and other social costs.    But EC Executive Commission sources said IndustryCommissioner Karl-Heinz Narjes told ministers today that 30 mlntonnes of annual capacity was excess to requirements and shouldbe closed by the end of 1990.    He said the Eurofer plan in particular fails to pinpointthe scope for closure in heavy hot-rolled wide-strip products,typically produced in plants employing thousands of people.    The sources said no minister challenged Narjes' analysisthat four or five hot-rolled wide-strip lines would have toclose.    They said ministers agreed that the Eurofer plan should beexpanded and developed through meetings among the industrybody, the Commission and representatives of member states.    However, diplomats said it was clear from today'sdiscussions that such meetings will be difficult.    They said member states are split on whether to reduce thescope of a quota production system, which at present protectsEC steelmakers from the full force of competition for 65 pct oftheir products, while talks on the closure plan proceed.    It was also clear that there will be tough talks on whichEC member states should bear the brunt of the closures and onhow much funding for help to those thrown out of work shouldcome from Community coffers.    German minister Martin Bangemann said his country's steelindustry, the largest in the EC, should not sufferproportionately more than others, German sources said.    But British diplomats said their minister, Giles Shaw,insists that the profitability of companies should be takeninto account.    The state owned British Steel Corporation, benefitting frommassive recent write-offs of its accumulated debts, iscurrently one of the few EC steel companies in the black.    Ministers were this afternoon trying to agree a jointstatement on the Eurofer plan and the situation in theindustry. Reuter
EC MINISTERS ANNOUNCE PLAN FOR STEEL CLOSURES European Community (EC) industryministers agreed on a plan for voluntary steel plant closures,drawn up by industry lobby group Eurofer, and calculated tolead to the loss of about 22,000 jobs.    The ministers resolved that the proposed closures, whichshould bring production capacity more in line with weak demand,"remain considerably below the surplus in capacity."    They asked the EC Executive Commission to consult withEurofer, major steel companies and with governments, topinpoint scope for further capacity reductions beyond theannual 15.26 mln tonnes identified by Eurofer.    The Commission will draw up a new system  of steelproduction quotas to protect vulnerable EC firms from the fullrigors of open competition.    Commission sources said any new system would cover onlyheavy products representing about 45 pct of the market, insteadof 65 pct under the present system.    Ministers hope to approve a closure program when they meetagain in Brussels on June 1, the sources said.    Industry Commissioner Karl-Heinz Narjes told ministerscapacity was 30 mln tonnes in excess of requirements and thatthis excess ought to be eliminated by the end of 1990. Reuter
INDIA, AUSTRALIA AGREE TO IMPROVE TWO-WAY TRADE Indian and Australian businessmensigned a memorandum of understanding to boost two-way trade andjoint industrial ventures in both countries, spokesmen of theIndo-Australia Business Council told reporters.    The Indian Council said it hoped India's exports toAustralia would improve in the next few months and reduce thetrade balance which is heavily in Australia's favour.    In 1986 Australia sold 428 mln Australian dlrs' worth ofgoods, including steel and coking coal, to India and bought170.5 mln worth of items, including cotton textiles, from India. Reuter
GERMAN STEEL SUBSIDIES CANNOT CONTINUE - MINISTER Economics Minister Martin Bangemann saidthe state could not continue to pour money into West Germany'sailing steel and coal industries because the subsidiesendangered other parts of the economy.    "The situation is completely absurd from an economic pointof view," Bangemann told the newspaper Die Welt in an interviewreleased ahead of publication tomorrow.    "We are subsidising the production of mineral coal and steelto an enormous extent and at the same time putting a hugeburden on all other branches of industry and making themuncompetitive," he said.    Bangemann said the steel and coal industries were no longercapable of being competitive. Continued state subsidies wouldnot save them but would only prolong their lives artificallyfor a few years, he said.    "That is why I have refused to continue subsidising them inthe way that we have done in the past," he said.    Several steel firms have announced plans to reduce theirworkforces, citing weak prices and lower exports due to thestrength of the mark and tough foreign competition.    Bangemann said everything possible would be done to findnew jobs for the workers affected by the cuts. REUTER
BANGEMANN DENIES NEWSPAPER INTERVIEW ON SUBSIDIES The West German Economics Minister todaydenied giving a newspaper interview which quoted him as sayingthe state could not continue to pour money into the country'sailing steel and coal industries.    Economics Ministry spokesman Dieter Vogel said in astatement Bangemann had contacted him from New Zealand, wherehe is attending a General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs (GATT)ministerial meeting, to deny giving the interview to theconservative daily Die Welt. The paper quoted Bangemann assaying that continued subsidies would endanger other parts ofthe German economy by making them uncompetitive.    Vogel said Bangemann had pledged that everything possiblewould be done to minimize the effects of reduced coal and steelproduction on the workforces and regions concerned.    Die Welt said the interview with Bangemann had taken placeat a meeting of his Free Democratic Party (FDP) in Darmstadtlast Friday, adding that it had a tape recording of hiscomments which it would publish tomorrow. Reuter
USX <X> USS UNIT RAISES PRICES USX Corp's USS subsidiary saidthat effective with shipments beginning July 1 prices for allleaded grades and 1200-series grades of hot rolled bar andsemi-finished products from its Lorain, Ohio, facility will beincreased by 15 dlrs a ton over the prices in effect June 1.    It said the increase is being made to reflect currentmarket conditions. Reuter
TWO JAPANESE STEELMAKERS TO CUT CAPITAL SPENDING Nippon Steel Corp <NSTC.TOK> said it willcut its capital spending by 36.4 pct to 105 billion yen in theyear starting April 1 from a year earlier due to thepostponement of furnace improvements.    <Nisshin Steel Co Ltd> said it will spend 10.7 billion yenin 1987/88 for rationalisation and facility improvements, downfrom 32.1 billion a year earlier, after completion of largeconstruction projects in 1986/87.    But capital spending by Nippon Kokan K.K. <NKKT.TOK> toimprove and increase its production facilities will rise to94.90 billion yen from 64 billion, the company said. REUTER
KRUPP TO BUILD SOUTH KOREAN STEEL PLANT Fried. Krupp GmbH said itsKrupp Industrietechnik GmbH subsidiary has won a 130 mln marksjoint order with Samsung Shipbuilding and Heavy Industries Co.Ltd of Seoul for a steel works in Pohang, South Korea.    It said the order, awarded by the Pohang Iron and Steel Co.Ltd, involves a works due to go on stream in 1989 producing250,000 tonnes of non-corrosive quality steels annually.    The consortium partners will supply the plant, superviseits construction and advise on product processing, with Kruppproviding a 100-tonne capacity arc furnace and a converter forsteel refining.    The West German company will supply ladles, vehicles,electrical and exhaust cooling apparatus and dust filters. Itwill also fit out the plant's laboratory.    Among other things Krupp said it will provide know-how forall production phases and train the Korean workforce.    It said Samsung will take care of the Korean part of theengineering and electrical work, the water treatment and othermechanical equipment, according to Krupp basic engineering.    Extruded ingots from the plant will be converted to sheetin an existing hot rolling mill. The sheet will be processed infacilities which are to be erected, Krupp said. REUTER
CANADA MAY MONITOR STEEL SHIPMENTS Canada may begin monitoring steelflowing in and out of the country to determine if any steel isbeing illegally "trans-shipped" to the U.S., senior governmenttrade officials said.    The officials, asking not to be identified, said thegovernment will investigate an industry contention that steel imported from countries such as South Korea and Taiwan is beingdiverted to the U.S. and ultimately exasperating concerns aboutthe level of Canadian exports south of the border.    But the senior officials, asking not to be indentified,said that despite intense pressure from the ReaganAdministration, Ottawa was not considering any kind of formallimits on Canadian shipments to the U.S.    "In a sense what I hope we are doing is buying some time,"said one official who claimed Canadian companies were "fairtraders" in the big American market.    If approved by the Canadian cabinet, the officials said a monitoring system will be established in the next three or fourmonths.    "I guess if we find trans-shipment is a problem, we wouldhave to do something about it," said a trade official.    Canadian steel shipments to the U.S. have risen to 5.7 pctof the U.S. market in recent months, almost double the leveljust two years ago.    The increase in Canadian shipments comes at a time ofgrowing anger in the U.S. over rising steel imports fromseveral countries in the face of a decline among domestic steelproducers.    Some U.S. lawmakers have proposed Canada's share of theAmerican market be limited to 2.4 per cent.    The Ontario Government has urged Ottawa to require foreigncompanies to obtain permits to import steel into the country.Currently, import licences are required only for carbon or rawsteel, which makes up less than half the steel market.    Canada exported two billion Canadian dlrs worth of steel in1986, while importing 944-mln dlrs worth of the product in thesame year. Reuter
BRAZIL WANTS TO INCREASE STEEL EXPORTS TO U.S. Brazil wants to increase itssteel exports to the United States, now limited because oftough import restraints set in 1984 by the Reaganadministration, a spokeswoman for the Brazilian Steel Institute(IBS) said.    Brazilian and U.S. Trade officials held the first of athree-day meeting today in Brasilia to discuss the issue.    In 1984, after three months of painstaking negotiations,the U.S. Government reached accords with seven steel-exportingnations - Australia, Brazil, Japan, Mexico, Spain, South Africaand South Korea - to reduce their shipments to the UnitedStates by about 30 pct in 1985.    The 1984 restraints established that for 1987 Brazil'ssteel exports to the U.S. Could not exceed 632,000 tonnes,increasing to 640,000 tonnes in 1988 and 670,000 tonnes in1989, the last of the five-year deadline set by the agreements.    Brazilian officials are trying to increase Brazil's exportshare of non-flat products to the U.S. Market.    The spokeswoman said there were reports of domestic supplyproblems in the United States. Reuter
REPORT EXPECTS SHARP DROP IN WORLD IRON IMPORTS World seaborne iron ore imports willfall sharply by the year 2000 with declining imports to the ECand Japan only partially offset by increased demand from SouthEast Asia, a report by Ocean Shipping Consultants said.    The report predicts annual world seaborne iron ore importsof 267.7 mln tonnes by 2000 versus 312.4 mln tonnes in 1985.    It estimates that total bulk shipping demand from the ironore sector will fall by almost 10 pct, or 200 billion tonnemiles, with shipping demand associated with the coking tradedown about 17 pct or 130 billion tonne miles.    The report sees EC imports falling to 91.7 mln tonnes in2000 from 123.6 mln in 1985 with Japanese imports falling to 89mln from 124.6 mln tonnes. Imports to South East Asia are seenrising to 58.6 mln from 32.6 mln tonnes in 1985.    It predicts that EC steel production will fall to 109 mlntonnes in 2000 from 135.7 mln in 1985 with Japanese productionfalling to 92 mln from 105.3 mln.    South Korea and Taiwan are expected to double their outputto 40 mln tonnes with Chinese production increasing by 25 mlntonnes to 80 mln, it added. Reuter
INDIA STEPS UP COUNTERTRADE DEALS TO CUT TRADE GAP India is searching for non-communistcountertrade partners to help it cut its trade deficit andconserve foreign exchange.    Wheat, tobacco, tea, coffee, jute, engineering andelectronic goods, as well as minerals including iron ore, areall on offer in return for crude oil, petroleum products,chemicals, steel and machinery, trade sources told Reuters.    Most of the impetus behind countertrade, which began in1984, comes from two state trading firms -- the State TradingCorp (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corp (MMTC).    "The two state trading corporations are free to use theirbuying power in respect to bulk commodities to promote Indianexports," a commerce ministry spokeswoman said, adding thatprivate firms are excluded from countertrading.    One trade source said India has targetted countries thatdepend on an Indian domestic market recently opened to foreignimports.    However, countertrade deals still make up only a small partof India's total trading and are likely to account for lessthan eight pct of the estimated 18.53 billion dlrs in tradeduring the nine months ended December, the sources said.    Countertrade accounted for just five pct of India's 25.65billion dlrs in trade during fiscal 1985/86 ended March,against almost nothing in 1984/85, official figures show.    However, the figures exclude exchanges with the EasternBloc paid in non-convertible Indian rupees, the sources said.    Total trade with the Soviet Union, involving swaps ofagricultural produce and textiles for Soviet arms and crudeoil, is estimated at 3.04 billion dlrs in fiscal 1986/87,against three billion in 1985/86.    Indian countertrade, which is being promoted mainly to helpnarrow the country's large trade deficit, is stillinsignificant compared with agreements reached by Indonesia,Venezuela and Brazil, the trade sources said.    The trade deficit, which hit an estimated record 6.96billion dlrs in 1985/86, is expected to decline to 5.6 billionin the current fiscal year.    But the push to include non-communist countries incountertrade is also due to other factors, including the slowgrowth of foreign reserves, a tight debt repayment schedule,shrinking aid and trade protectionism, businessmen said.    One source said India is showing more dynamism in promotingcountertrade deals than in the past, when the deals were madediscreetly because they break GATT rules. As a member of theGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), India cannotofficially support bartering.    The MMTC's recent countertrade deals include iron oreexports to Yugoslavia for steel structures and rails.    "MMTC's recent global tenders now include a clause thatpreference will be given to parties who accept payment in kindfor goods and services sold to India," a trade official said,adding that the policy remains flexible.    "We also take into account other factors such as prices atwhich the goods and services are offered to India," the tradeofficial said.    Early this year the commerce ministry quietly told foreigncompanies interested in selling aircraft, ships, drilling rigsand railway equipment to India that they stood a better chanceif they bought Indian goods or services in return, the tradesources said.    Illustrating the point, the official said a South Koreanfirm recently agreed to sell a drilling platform worth 40 mlndlrs to the state-run Oil and Natural Gas Commission.    In return, the South Koreans gave a verbal assurance to buyIndian goods worth 10 pct of the contract, against the 25 pctsought by New Delhi, the trade official said.    "We selected the Korean firm because its bid was the lowest,"he added.    Countertrade is helping African countries short of foreigncurrency to import goods. India has signed a trade protocol tobuy up to 15,000 tonnes of asbestos fibre from Zimbabwe inexchange for Indian goods, including jute bags and cars.    But despite India's new drive, countertrade has someinherent problems, they added.    "It is not always easy to meet the basic requirement thatthe trade should always be balanced," one trade source said. "Theother problem is it is often difficult to supply or buycommodities which the other party wants."    Another added, "Barter is also restrictive. We look upon itas a temporary measure to get over the current balance ofpayments difficulty.    "This is why countertrade has not been made a law in India.It does not even figure in the country's foreign trade policy." REUTER
JAPAN SEAMLESS PIPE MAKERS TO FORM EXPORT CARTEL Four major Japanese steelmakers plan toform a seamless pipe export cartel for markets other than theU.S. And the European Community for a year from April to keepprices above output costs, company officials involved said.    The companies are Nippon steel Corp <NSTC.T>, SumitomoMetal Industries Ltd <SMIT.T>, Nippon Kokan KK <NKKT.T> andKawasaki Steel Corp <KAWS.T>, which together account for some95 pct of Japan's total seamless pipe exports.    The firms will apply to form the cartel to the Ministry ofInternational Trade and Industry today and approval is expectedlater this month, the officials said.    Under the plan, the four companies will set floor pricesfor exports as prices have fallen sharply due to the yen'sappreciation against the dollar, reduced world demand caused bylower oil prices and excess domestic capacity which resulted inprice-cutting competition, the officials said.    In calendar 1986, seamless pipe exports fell to 2.34 mlntonnes from 2.99 mln in 1985 and 3.12 mln in 1981.    The officials declined to give any idea of floor prices,saying it depends partly on volume, but industry sourcesestimate average export prices would rise by around 20 pct tosome 800 dlrs a tonne. REUTER
TWO JAPANESE STEELMAKERS' CAPITAL SPENDING FALLS Kawasaki Steel Corp <KAWS.T> said itsparent company's capital spending in the year from April 1 willfall to 75 billion yen from 110 billion in the current year,and Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd <SMIT.T> said its capitalspending will drop to 70 billion yen from 85 billion.    Both companies said they do not plan to start new largeconstruction projects linked to production increases in thecoming year, because of the yen's appreciation and slow worldsteel demand. REUTER
INDIA STEPS UP COUNTERTRADE DEALS India is searching for non-communistcountertrade partners to help it cut its trade deficit andconserve foreign exchange.    Wheat, tobacco, tea, coffee, jute, engineering andelectronic goods, as well as minerals including iron ore, areall on offer in return for crude oil, petroleum products,chemicals, steel and machinery, trade sources told Reuters.    Most of the impetus behind countertrade, which began in1984, comes from two state trading firms -- the State TradingCorp (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corp (MMTC).    "The two state trading corporations are free to use theirbuying power in respect to bulk commodities to promote Indianexports," a commerce ministry spokeswoman said, adding thatprivate firms are excluded from countertrading.    One trade source said India has targetted countries thatdepend on an Indian domestic market recently opened to foreignimports. But countertrade deals still make up only a small partof India's total trading and are likely to account for lessthan eight pct of the estimated 18.53 billion dlrs in tradeduring the nine months ended December, the sources said.    Countertrade accounted for just five pct of India's 25.65billion dlrs in trade during fiscal 1985/86 ended March,against almost nothing in 1984/85, official figures show.    However, the figures exclude exchanges with the EasternBloc paid in non-convertible Indian rupees, the sources said.    Total trade with the Soviet Union, involving swaps ofagricultural produce and textiles for Soviet arms and crudeoil, is estimated at 3.04 billion dlrs in fiscal 1986/87. Reuter
U.S. STEEL PRODUCTION ROSE 1.3 PCT IN WEEK Steel production rose1.3 pct to 1,696,000 short tons in theweek ended March 28 from 1,675,000 shorttons, the American Iron and Steel Institutereported   Production so far this year was 18,810,000 tons adjusted off14.6 pct from 22,016,000 tonsproduced by the nations mills a year ago.    Utilization for the week of March 28 was   78.7 pct and forthe week of March 21 was      was 77.8 pct.       Reuter
CSC INDUSTRIES UNIT TO INCREASE PRICES Copperweld Steel Co <CPSL>, asubsidiary of CSC Industries Inc., said it will increase frommarket price levels its bar, semi-finished and leaded productseffective July One.    Hot rolled and cold finished bar wil be increase 25 dlrsper net ton, while semi-finished products will be increased 15dlrs per net ton, the company said.    Anticipated higher energy and raw material costs, combinedwith current market trends, were cited by the company asreasons for the increases. Reuter
STEEL TECHNOLOGIES <STTX>, MITSUI SET VENTURE Steel Technologies Inc said itagreed to form a 50-50 joint venture with <Mitsui and Co Ltd>to make steel products.    The venture, called Mi-Tech Steel Inc, will be set up toserve Japanese and domestic automobile and appliance partsmakers in the U.S.    A plant will be located near Murfreesboro, Tenn., andproduction is expected to begin in the fall 1987, the companysaid. Reuter
STEEL TECHNOLOGIES <STTX> IN JOINT VENTURE Steel Technologies Inc said itsigned an agreement with Mitsui and Co Ltd <MITSY> and itssubsidiaries to establish a joint venture corporation to becalled Mi-Tech Steel Inc.    Mitsui, through its subsidiaries, Mitsui and Co USA Inc andMitsui Steel Development Co Inc, and Steel Technologies eachwill own 50 pct of the new company, the company said.    Mi-tech Steel will construct, own and operate steel servicecenters. The facilities will be established to serve Japaneseand domestic automobile and appliance parts manufactures in theU.S., the company said.    The initial processing center will be located nearMurfreesboro, Tenn., and is expected to begin operations in thefall of 1987, Steel Technologies said.    Daryl Elser, president of Steel Technologies, will bepresident of the new company, it said. Reuter
USX <X> UNIT RAISES SOME STEEL PRICES USX Corp said its USS steelmakingdivision increased prices on plate and H-pile products.    Effective with May three shipments, it said the price baseon carbon and high-strength low-alloy, or HSLA, H-piles willincrease by 1-1/2 cts per pound.    Effective with shipments beginning June 28, the price oncarbon, HSLA, and alloy plates will increase by 1-1/4 cts perpound. Strip mill plate prices will rise by 3/4 cts per pound.    It said the price increases on plate and H-pile productswill apply to all shipments from USS plants. Reuter
VENEZUELA PLANS METALS INVESTMENT FOR 1987-89 The Venezuela Guayana Corporation, CVG,which oversees the state steel, iron, aluminum and otherindustries, will invest 75 billion bolivars in new projectsduring 1987-89, CVG president Leopoldo Sucre Figarellaannounced.    The investments will go to plant expansion, infrastructureand the extension of hydroelectric facilities in themineral-rich Guayana region, south of the Orinoco river.    Sucre Figarella told a news conference the CVG's 12companies showed an overall increase of 120 pct in profits,which rose from 1.732 billion bolivars in 1985 to 3.926 billionbolivars last year.    Among the best performers was steel company Sidor whichearned 1.019 billion bolivars, the first time since 1978 Sidorturned a profit.    The gain was made possible in part by the refinancing of1.619 mln dollars of foreign debt.    CVG's three aluminum companies also showed substantialgains. Interalumina, which makes the intermediate materialalumina, had an increase in profits from 116 to 217 mlnbolivars, Alcasa earned 487 mln bolivars, as compared to 1985's412 mln and Venalum's profits rose by around half, from 1.042to 1.504 bln bolivars.    Meanwhile, the state iron company Ferrominera saw itsprofits rise from 156 mln bolivars in 1985 to 204 mln bolivarslast year. Reuter
JAPAN TO PAY FIVE PCT LESS FOR INDIAN IRON ORE Japan will pay five pct less for theIndian iron ore it imports in fiscal 1987/88 starting April 1than the average 18 dlrs a tonne it paid in 1986/87, agovernment trade official told Reuters.    He said India had agreed to export to Japan about 23 mlntonnes of iron ore in 1987/88, about the same as in the currentyear.    The official described the agreement as satisfactoryoverall. He said it was signed by an official Indian tradedelegation and Japanese businessmen in Tokyo last week.    The official said it was encouraging that Japan had agreednot to reduce ore imports from India although Japan's totaliron ore imports would be lower in the coming year because ofthe recession in the Japanese steel industry.    He said Japanese ore imports in calendar 1987 would total96 mln tonnes, compared with 103.5 mln in 1986.    Government officials said India's total ore exports arelikely to rise to between 33 and 34 mln tonnes in 1987/88,against a provisionally estimated 31 mln in 1986/87. REUTER
U.S. STEELMAKERS, UNION SEEK RENEWED IMPORT CURB The U.S. specialty steel industryand its union said they will seek a three-year extension ofPresident Reagan's import restraint program to give theindustry more time to restore competitiveness.    They said they will tell the U.S. International TradeCommission (ITC) Thursday that "termination will have disastrousconsequences for American companies and workers."    The current four-year voluntary program reached withforeign exporters ends this summer and the ITC must advisePresident Reagan on the economic effect of its termination.    The Specialty Steel Industry of the United States and theUnited Steelworkers Union said in statement that imported steelwas still flooding the domestic market and continued curbs wereneeded to restore the industry's health.    Reagan is to decide by July 19 whether to renew therestraint program. Reuter
TAIWAN SEES SHARP DECLINE IN SHIPBREAKING Taiwan's shipbreaking industry isexpected to decline sharply this year despite the boom in 1986because of keener competition from South Korea and China, therising Taiwan dollar and U.S. Import curbs on steel products,industry sources said.    Last year, Taiwanese breakers demolished a record 344vessels totalling 3.69 million light displacement tons (ldt),up on 165 of 2.97 million ldt in 1985, Lin Chung-jung, a TaiwanShipbreaking Industry Association (TSIA) spokesman, toldReuters.    China scrapped vessels of some 1.1 mln ldt last year whileSouth Korea demolished ships of 910,000 ldt, he said.    Yao Liu, president of Chi Shun Hwa Steel Co, a leadingshipbreaker and steel producer in Kaohsiung, told Reuters, "Weexpect to scrap fewer ships this year because of an expecteddecline in our steel product exports."    Lin said many breakers predicted a 20 pct decline inscrapping operations this year due to falling demand from theU.S., Japan and Southeast Asia for Taiwanese steel.    Taiwan agreed last year to voluntarily limit its steelproduct exports to the U.S. To 120,000 tonnes in the first halfof 1987 from about 260,000 tonnes in the first half of 1986, aTaiwan Steel and Iron Association official said.    Yao said the rising Taiwan dollar means Taiwan's steelexports are more expensive than South Korea's and China's.    The Taiwan dollar has strengthened by some 16 pct againstthe U.S. Unit since September 1985 and some bankers andeconomists said it could appreciate to 32 to the U.S. Dollar bythe end of the year from 34.23 today, Yao said.    In comparison, the won rose by about five pct and yuanremained stable during the same period, he added.    "We have lost some orders to South Korea and mainland Chinabecause foreign importers have switched their purchases," hesaid.    Taiwan's steel exports to the U.S., Japan and SoutheastAsia slipped to 148,000 tonnes in the first two months of 1987from about 220,000 tonnes a year earlier, the Taiwan Steel andIron Association official said.    He said he expected further declines in later months butdid not give figures. REUTER
THYSSEN SEES UP TO 20 PCT LOWER SALES IN 1986/87 Thyssen AG <THYH.F> expects a fall ofbetween 15 and 20 pct in consolidated turnover in 1986/87,chief executive Dieter Spethmann said.    He told journalists the exact decline would depend ondollar developments. The Thyssen group did over 50 pct of itsbusiness outside West Germany.    Spethmann made no comment on 1986/87 group earnings. Worldgroup net profit fell to 370.1 mln marks in the year endedSeptember 1986 from 472.4 mln a year earlier on group saleswhich fell to 40.00 billion marks from a previous 44.32billion.    Last week Spethmann told the annual meeting Thyssenexpected to post a good profit in 1986/87 despite expectedlosses in the mass steel-making operations this year.    Spethmann said engineering turnover would not be lower thisyear, but lower steel prices would result in a drop in steelturnover and sales volume. This would also affect Thyssen'strading operations, he said.    Spethmann also categorically denied a magazine articlepublished this week which spoke of a dispute between him andHeinz Kriwet, management board chairman of Thyssen Stahl AG,over planned job cuts in steel plants in the Ruhr area. Reuter
BETHLEHEM STEEL <BS> SETS PLATE PRICE INCREASES Bethlehem Steel Corp said itsbase price for carbon plates and high-strength and low-alloyplates will be increased by 25 dlrs to 405 dlrs a short ton,effective July one.    The company said its composite prices for alloy plates willalso be increased 25 dlrs per ton on the same date, adding itdoes not publish its prices for this product.    Bethlehem Steel said its composite prices for strip millplates will be increased 15 dlrs a ton. Reuter
MADRID METRO HALTED AS SPANISH STRIKES SPREAD An estimated 1.2 mln metro users inMadrid were stranded today as striking railway workers haltedthe underground transport system, industry sources said. Thestrikers joined coal miners, steel and oil refinery workers inSpain's latest wave of stoppages over wage demands.    Some 10,000 pitmen in the northern province of Leon enteredthe second day of an indefinite stoppage to demand wage risesand a five-day working week, the sources said.    Oil refinery workers picketed the state-owned EmpresaNacional de Petroleo SA (EMP) to prevent fuel lorries leavingthe company's largest plant in Puertollano, central Spain.    Paramilitary police were guarding steel mills at Reinosa,in northern Spain, from the daily protests against planned jobcuts. A local government official said the police force wouldremain in place until tempers had cooled down.    More than 60 people were injured in pitched battles betweenpolice and steel foundry workers in Reinosa last month. REUTER
BETHLEHEM STEEL <BS> RAISES H-PILE PRICES Bethlehem Steel Corp saideffective with shipments of May 3 transaction prices for allH-piles will be increased by 30 dlrs per short ton.    The company said a new base price, coupled with revisedsize extras, will result in a published price of 446 dlrs perton HP14 and 420 dlrs for all other H-pile sizes. Reuter
JAPAN MAKES SEAMLESS-PIPE DEALS WITH CHINA, USSR Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd <SMIT.T>said it and four other firms jointly concluded negotiations toexport a total of over 400,000 tonnes of seamless pipes in thesix months to end-September to China and the Soviet Union.    Export prices for that period for both countries were set100 to 150 yen per tonne higher than previous contracted pricesdue to the yen's gains against the dollar, it said.    Contracted export volume for China is likely to be over200,000 tonnes against 350,000 for Oct 1986-March 1987, and420,000 for April-Sept 1986, and for the Soviet Union over200,000 tonnes. No direct Soviet comparison was available. REUTER
CANADA PLANS TO MONITOR STEEL IMPORTS, EXPORTS, TRADE MINIS General Electric Corp said itsfirst quarter results were significantly higher due to thestrong results of RCA, which was acquired last year.    General Electric also attibuted continued strongperformances in plastics, major appliances and the EmployersReinsurance Corp for its strong quarter.    GE recorded net earnings for the first quarter 1987 of 624mln dlrs, or 1.37 dls per shr, up 16 pct from 537 mln dlrs, or1.18 dlrs per share for the same quarter a year ago.    General Electric chairman John Welch Jr reiterated thecompany's outlook for 1987 in which it expects double-digit GEearnings growth for the year. He said the first quarter resultsare in line with those expectations.    General Electric cited the strong results in TV network andstation operations of the National Broadcasting Co, which wasnot part of GE in the first quarter of 1986, as one reason forits strong earnings.    It also noted that aircraft engine operating profit wasmuch higher than a year ago, caused by a increase in shipmentsthan the 1986 quarter, which was impacted by a strike.    Aerospace revenues were sharply higher in this year's firstquarter from a year ago, mainly because of the inclusion ofRCA's aerospace and defense business, the company said.    In addition, consumer products revenues were up from lastyear, mainly because of including sales of RCA video products.    General Electric said restructuring provisions of 308 mlndlrs before taxes to implement various strategic moves werecharged against operations in the first quarter of 1987. Itadded that there was a one-time gain of 281 mlns dlrs aftertaxes from an inventory accounting change.    And technical products revenues and operating profit wereahead of last year, led by a strong increases in medicalsystems volume and the inclusion this year of RCA'scommunications and related services. Reuter
CANADA TO MONITOR STEEL IMPORTS, EXPORTS Canada plans to monitor steel shipmentsflowing in and out of the country in an attempt to appeaseconcerns in the U.S. over the high level of Canadian steelexports, Trade Minister Pat Carney said.    "To help maintain our open access to the U.S. steel market,the government is taking further action to ensure we have moreaccurate data on exports and imports and that Canada is notused as a backdoor to the U.S. market by offshore suppliers,"Carney said.    Carney also said Canadian companies were being asked toexercise prudence in the U.S. market and both countries wereconsidering establishing a joint commission to study thegrowing steel problem.    Carney told the House of Commons she will soon announce anamendment to the Exports and Imports Permits Act to set up themonitoring program.    Canadian steel shipments to the U.S. have risen to 5.7 pctcent of the U.S. market in recent months, almost double thelevel just two years ago, Canadian trade officials said.    The increase in Canadian shipments comes at a time ofgrowing anger in the U.S. over rising steel imports fromseveral countries in the face of a decline in the domesticsteel industry.    Some U.S. lawmakers have proposed Canada's share of theAmerican market be limited to 2.4 pct. Reuter
CANAM MANAC WINS 8.5 MLN DLR CONTRACT (The Canam Manac Group Inc) said itsCanam Steel Works unit received a contract valued at 8.5 mlndlrs to supply steel trusses to (Canron Inc) for a new carplant in Ingersoll, Ontario.    Canam Manac said it will produce the trusses at its Quebecand Ontario plants and delivery will be completed by August. Reuter
TALKING POINT/STEEL COMPANIES Steel stocks, which have had a healthyrunup recently, still present some short term investmentopportunities, according to some steel analysts.    But others say the upturn, based on strong orders and firmprices this spring, has been strictly seasonal and will endsoon. They recommend taking profits.    "It's that time of year. This is strictly seasonal," saidCharles Bradford of Merrill Lynch and Co. "Orders will bestrong for about two months, and there are signs that some(order rates) are starting to dive already."    But Dean Witter Reynolds Inc analyst Clarence Morrison seessome short-term potential in the group, which includes USX Corp<X>, Bethlehem Steel Corp <BS>, Armco Inc <AS> and Inland SteelIndustries Inc <IAD>.    "There is still some attractiveness to steels over theshort- to intermediate-term based on improved order rates andrising prices," Morrison said. He only recommends one stock,however, Inland, which is modernizing steelmaking operations tomake them more efficient.    Despite his bearishness, Merrill's Bradford continues torecommend Armco, which he sees as a major turnaround.    Armco's steelmaking operations are profitable, the balancesheet has been improved, and its oilfield equipment businesshas been slimmed and put in a joint venture with USX, Bradfordnoted. "It's not a high-quality investment situation yet butthey've come a long way," he said.    "We think the stock will do moderately better than themarket," he said. Armco shares, trading off 1/4 at 10 today,could go to 12, and possibly as high as 15, he said.    Bradford sees Armco earning 50 to 75 cts a share in 1987,before special gains from recouped investment tax credits,against losses last year.    Armco's 1988 earnings could be significantly higher, hesaid.    Bradford is recommending sale of USX shares. "We had a buyon it below 20 but when it gets to 28, let somebody else haveit," he said.    The steel and energy concern will earn about one dlr ashare in 1987, about half of that coming from asset sales, andfrom two dlrs to 2.50 dlrs in 1988, Bradford said. "But a lotdepends on oil prices," he added. About 60 pct of USX's salescome from oil and natural gas.    Other analysts, including Michelle Galanter Applebaum ofSalomon Brothers Inc, recommend USX. "The company's done a lot(of restructuring), more than the market's given them creditfor," she said.    She sees the stock going to the mid 30s or higher. USX wastrading up 1/8 at 28-1/2. She predicts USX will earn 18 cts ashare this year and 2.73 dlrs next year against large losses in1986.    Applebaum, who is also positive on Armco and Inland, hasbeen recommending the stocks since last November.    Peter Marcus of Painewebber Inc is neutral on the groupalthough he said the earnings outlook is improved through thethird quarter.    But he sees potential trouble beyond then. "I think (steel)prices on a bookings basis will start to drop by the summer,"he said.    Applebaum of Salomon Brothers also sees some seasonaldropoff later in the year. "But there are more positives thannegatives," she said, citing reduced capacity in the domesticindustry, better prices, and a weaker dollar, which shouldcause steel imports to drop off slightly from last year. Reuter
CHINA SULPHUR-IRON MINE STARTS PRODUCTION China's largest sulphur-iron mine hasstarted trial production at Yunfu in the southern province ofGuangdong, the China Daily said.    It said the mine has an annual output capacity of three mlntonnes of sulphur-iron ore, which can be used withoutprocessing because of its high quality. REUTER
SLATER <SSI.A.TO> PLANS U.S. MODERNIZATION Slater Industries Inc said it planned a15 mln dlr modernization of its Slater Steels Corp Fort Waynespecialty bar division in Indiana.    It said the modernization would involve replacement of theexisting bar mill with a high-speed, quick-change continuousmill. The new facility will lower labor and mill costs andenhance product quality and range, Slater said.    Completion date of the new mill was undisclosed. Reuter
BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP <BS> INCREASES PRICES Bethlehem Steel Corp said it wasraising the prices by 30 dlrs per ton on section extras oncertain wide planned structural shapes.    The increase will affect seven wide planned section groupsand will increase the price to 500 dlrs per ton from 470 dlrsper ton, effective May 3, the company said. Reuter
SPAIN APPROVES AID FUNDS FOR STEEL INDUSTRY The Spanish cabinet agreed a 223.33billion peseta aid package for the steel industry to restorethe sector to profitability by 1989, Industry Minister LuisCarlos Croissier said.    He told reporters at a news conference the money would beshared among four state and privately-owned mills, which nowoperate at a loss.    The funds will be used to help modernise the industry,increase productivity and cut production to 17.5 mln tonnes ayear from a current capacity of 18.2 mln tonnes. Reuter
VENEZUELA FINANCE MINISTER TO SEEK JAPANESE CREDIT Finance minister Manuel Azpurua said hewill visit Japan in mid-May to seek new credits for plannedexpansion in Venezuela's state-owned aluminum, steel andpetrochemical industries.    Azpurua told reporters he will be accompanied by centralbank president Hernan Anzola and director of public financeJorge Marcano.    "The idea is to hold meetings with Japanese economic andfinancial authorities, with the banks which have business andcredits in Venezuela and with some of the Japanese companiesalready active here," Azpurua said.    Azpurua said he was optimistic about the trip, in light ofJapan's recent announcement it will disburse 30 billion dlrs innew credit to Latin American countries.    "I think this trip is being taken at an opportune time andwill allow us to reveal the potencial which this country holdsfor the Japanese economic community," Azpurua said.    He would not say how much Venezuela will seek in creditsfrom Japan. REUTER
VENEZUELA FINANCE MINISTER TO JAPAN IN MID-MAY Finance Minister Manuel Azpurua saidtoday he will travel to Japan in mid-May to seek new creditsfor planned expansions in Venezuela's state aluminum, steel andpetrochemical industries.    Azpurua told reporters he will be accompanied by CentralBank President Hernan Anzola and Director of Public FinanceJorge Marcano.    'The idea is to hold meetings with Japanese economic andfinancial authorities, with the banks which have business andcredits in Venezuela and with some of the Japanese companiesalready active here,' Azpurua said. Reuter
JAPAN STEELMAKERS, CANADA MINE DISCUSS COAL PRICE <Quintette Coals Ltd> of Canada andJapanese steelmakers failed to agree on the Canadian coal baseprice over four years from April 1, but agreed to have anotherround of talks in late May, officials involved said.    Japanese firms have asked for the base price to be set at44 U.S. Dlrs per tonne (FOB), sharply lower than the 75 to 76dlrs of the past four years, they told Reuters. The base priceis reviewed every four years under the long-term accord.    The Canadian mine insisted on maintaining the presentprice, they said.    Japanese firms bought 4.75 mln tonnes of Quintette coal in1986/87, and plan to buy the same volume in 1987/88 dependingon the result of the talks, the officials said. They addedJapan has no plans to withdraw its price cutback request due torecent falls in coking coal prices on the world market.    Meanwhile <Gregg River Co> of Canada has agreed on aJapanese proposal to set a temporary price of 75.80 Canadiandlrs on and after May shipment following the failure of the1987/88 price talks, they said. Japanese firms plan to buy150,000 tonnes of Gregg River coal for May shipment and holdanother round of talks with Gregg in late May, they added. REUTER
SEOUL UNVEILS SHOPPING LIST OF U.S. GOODS South Korea unveiled a shopping list of2.6 billion dlrs of U.S. Goods in line with its new policy ofseeking to limiting its trade surplus to ease trade frictionwith Washington.    The government said this would help freeze this year'strade surplus with the United States at the 1986 level.    "The surplus, which rose to 7.4 billion dollars last yearfrom 4.3 billion in 1985, was projected to top 10 billion thisyear but the government has taken steps to constrain it to theseven billion dollar level," one Trade Ministry official toldReuters.    A government statement said the 2.6 billion dlrs was inaddition to about two billion dlrs of purchases made last monthby a South Korean trade mission to the United States.    The announcement follows a visit here this week by U.S.Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige, who said that if SouthKorea wanted to avoid protectionist retaliation it should notfalter in its policies to open its market and cut its surplus.    The statement said the government, state agencies and otherpublic institutions would buy 480 mln dlrs worth of U.S. Cars,computers, helicopters, ambulances, motorcycles, medical andlaboratory equipment and other products. "This amounts includes89 mln dlrs worth of purchases which were not originallyreflected in their budgets," it added.    The list includes 1.13 billion dlrs of capital goods, 700mln of farm products, 50 mln of aluminium, zinc, polyethyleneand other raw materials, and 250 mln of steel, electronics andshipbuilding parts which would be shifted from other nations.    Agriculture Ministry officials said South Korea had alreadybought 310 mln dlrs worth of U.S. Wheat, raw cotton, corn andsoybeans.    This meant the country would buy from the United Statesnearly all of the 1.27 billion dlrs of its planned imports ofsuch commodities this year, they said.    The government will also take steps to reduce tariffs,accelerate the opening of its markets, voluntarily restrainexports and cut export financing, the statement said.    South Korea will also reorganise the country's 3,600 tradeagents to deliver better after-sales services for importedproducts and hold a trade show in November for U.S. Products. Reuter
STELCO <STEA.TO>, USWA REACH CONTRACT SETTLEMENT Stelco Inc said contract negotiationswith United Steelworkers of America concluded in a memorandumof settlement for a new three-year collective agreementcovering about 12,000 workers at 15 of Stelco's plants.    Further terms of the new agreement were not immediatelydisclosed.    The company said early negotiations began March 2, 1987 inorder to reach a new contract well before the July 31, 1987expiry of the existing contract.    It said the new contract was endorsed by negotiatingcommittees of all union locals representing Stelco workers. Reuter
GREEK BULK ORE CARRIER AGROUND IN ORINOCO RIVER A Greek bulk carrier loaded with ironore has run aground in Venezuela's Orinoco river, Lloyd'sshipping services reports.    The 74,596-dwt Andromachi is reported to have run agroundnear mile 149 on Monday and attempts to refloat the vesselusing tugs has so far been unsuccessful, Lloyd's said.    The Andromachi is managed by Theodore and AngelosEfstathiou of Piraeus. Reuter
EC MINISTERS CONSIDER CUTBACKS IN STEEL SUPPORT A new steel quota system that wouldstrictly limit European Community (EC) support to the industrycould be forced on producers if they fail to find their ownsolution quickly, officials said.    EC industry ministers meeting here considered two keyproposals aimed at cutting back surplus capacity by 30 mlntonnes by 1990.    The first would limit the current quota system, which hasprotected EC output for seven years, only to flat products andheavy sections, thereby forcing other types of steel productsinto free market competition.    The second proposal would link continuation of a quotasystem with progress toward plant closures, although less thana month ago the EC steelmakers' lobby group Eurofer said theyhad abandoned efforts to close plants voluntarily.    The ministers stopped short of imposing their own solutionimmediately, instead urging steel producers to try again toreach agreement on voluntary cutbacks.    The EC Commission has said it will come up with detailedproposals in July on the future of the EC steel industry and ECindustry ministers meet again in September to reach a finaldecision. Reuter
LTV <QLTV> TO NEGOTIATE WITH STEELWORKERS LTV Corp's LTV Steel Corp said itagreed to resume negotiations with the United Steelworkers ofAmerica at the local plant levels, to discuss those provisionsof its proposal that require local implementation.    The local steelworker union narrowly rejected a tentativeagreement with the company on May 14, it said.    LTV also said it agreed to reopen its offer contained inthe tentative agreement reached with the union's negotiatingcommittee as part of a plan to resolve problems through localdiscussions.                Reuter
USX <X> UNIT RAISES PRICES ON CERTAIN GRADES USX Corp's USS division said it wasraising prices for all hot rolled bar and semi-finishedproducts 1100 series grades by 10 dlrs per ton effective JulyOne, 1987.    The company said the increase reflects current marketconditions.    The company could not say what percentage the increasereflects from current prices, nor could it say how much per tonthe products sell for currently. Reuter
USX <X>/WORTHINGTON PLANT REACHES DESIGN LEVELS USX Corp said it and WorthingtonIndustries <WTHG.O> Inc's Worthingon Specialty Products steelprocessing plant in Jackson, Mich., has recently reachedproduction at the levels for which it was designed.    The company said the 600,000 short ton per year plant isdesigned to provide automotive, appliance and other customerswith first-stage processed steel for just-in-time delivery.    It opened in August 1986, just as USX was beginning asix-month labor dispute. USX is sourcing the plant with coilsfrom its Gary, Ind., works and Mon Valley Works nearPittsburgh, and Worthington is operating the plant. Reuter
GERMAN STEEL INDUSTRY TO SEEK LAY-OFF FUNDS The West German Government will be askedJune 16 to provide nearly 850 million marks (470 milliondollars) to lay off or retrain 20,000 steel workers whose jobsare threatened by the recent slump in the country's steelindustry.    Government spokesman Friedhelm Ost said Chancellor HelmutKohl will review a joint proposal by steel employers and tradeunions at a meeting on the ailing industry tomorrow.    Both steel employers and union leaders are expected to tellKohl tomorrow that the Government has failed to do enough toprotect German steel firms from subsidies and unfaircompetition from other European Community members.    Government sources said Bonn was prepared to take part in acommon effort to find a solution for the steelworkers. Butsince the Government is struggling to finance tax cuts byslashing state subsidies, it is not prepared to pick up thewhole bill for the layoffs, the sources said.    A spokesman for IG Metall, the metalworkers' trade union,said the proposal seeks redundancy payments to 10,000 workersin Ruhr and Rhineland plants. Some 6,000 workers would beredeployed in non-steel making sectors of steel companies,while a further 4,000 would be eligible for job-retrainingschemes.    The union estimates that the redundancy payments wouldtotal 600 million marks (340 million dollars), while jobretraining schemes would cost a further 240 million marks (130million dollars).    Up to 30,000 West German steel jobs are at risk in the nextfew years following steep losses incurred by the industry sincemid-1986.    Extensive restructuring of the industry in recent years wasunable to compensate for the effects of the weak dollar whichdepressed foreign demand for steel, industry sources said. Reuter
GERMAN STEEL INDUSTRY SEEKS LAY-OFF FUNDS The West German government today considereddemands for nearly 850 mln marks to lay off or retrain 20,000steel workers.    Government spokesman Friedhelm Ost said Chancellor HelmutKohl reviewed a joint proposal by steel employers and tradeunions at a special meeting with steel industryrepresentatives.    Companies like Fried Krupp <KRPG.D> and Hoesch Werke AG<HWKG.F>, which saw profits plunge last year, have taken theunusual step of aligning with the metalworkers' trade union, IGMetall, to press for government finance to slim staff levelsstill further.    Government officials said Bonn was prepared to take part ina common effort to find a solution for the steelworkers. Butsince the government was struggling to finance tax cuts byreducing state subsidies, it could not pay for all the layoffs.    A spokesman for IG Metall said the joint proposal foresawredundancy payments to 10,000 workers in Ruhr and Rhinelandplants. Some 6,000 workers would be redeployed in non-steelmaking sectors of steel companies, while a further 4,000 wouldbe eligible for job-retraining schemes. Redundancies areestimated at 600 mln marks, while job retraining would cost afurther 240 mln. REUTER
STEEL FIRMS STUDY USX <X> UNIT PRICE HIKE Two major steel companies said theywere studying a price increase announced yesterday by USXCorp's USS steelmaking division.    Spokesman for Armco Inc <AS> and Bethlehem Steel Corp <BS>said the proposed price hike was under study.    Yesterday, USS said it plans to raise base prices on plateproducts by 20 dlrs a ton, or about five pct, effective withshipments October 4.    A spokesman for LTV Steel Co, a unit of LTV Corp <QLTV>,declined comment, adding that the company does not make heavyplate and makes few other plate products.    A spokesman for <National Steel Corp>, a joint venture ofNational Intergroup Inc <NII> and Nippon Kokan K.K., said thecompany is not in the product lines affected.    Reached later, an Inland Steel Industries Inc <IAD>spokesman said the company was studying the pricing move.    USX said the increase will be on all plate products,including carbon, high-strength low-alloy, strip mill and alloyplates. It also said it planned 20-dlr-a-ton increases on somespecial plate widths and thicknesses.    Analysts have said firm prices for steel should contributeto better results at the nation's major steelmakers. Reuter
U.S. STEEL FIRMS STUDY USX UNIT PRICE HIKE Two major steel companies said theywere studying a price increase announced yesterday by USXCorp's USS steelmaking division.    Spokesman for Armco Inc and Bethlehem Steel Corp said theproposed price hike was under study.    Yesterday, USS said it plans to raise base prices on plateproducts by 20 dlrs a short ton, or about five pct, effectivewith shipments October 4.    A spokesman for LTV Steel Co, a unit of LTV Corp, declinedcomment, adding that the company does not make heavy plate andmakes few other plate products. Reuter
USX <X> UNIT OFFERS STEEL PRICES DIRECTORY USX Corp said its USS division hasavailable a comprehensive sheet steel selection and pricingsystem detailing the company's full line of products.    The company said it was the first complete update in 25years.    The new prices in the book are effective after Oct One,1987, the company said. Reuter
BETHLEHEM STEEL <BS> SETS STEEL PRICE INCREASES Bethlehem Steel Corp said pricesfor steel sheet products will be increased up to 30 dlrs a toneffective January 3.    The increases will affect certain non-contract or spottransactions and will be achieved through reductions incompetitive discounts.    The company said transaction prices for contract accounts,which have a duration of six months or more, will also beincreased to commensurate levels.    Percentage increases were not immediately available.    Prices for flat-rolled steel sheet, used in automobiles,appliances and other products, vary widely between about 350and 800 dlrs a ton.    The company said it was taking the actions to restore sheettransaction prices to more equitable levels. In many cases,prices are still lower than those attained in 1984, it said.    Bethlehem also said that in response to changing marketconditions and potential inflationary pressures, efforts willbe made to mininize the number and the duration of firm pricecontracts. Reuter
