ECUADOR ADOPTS AUSTERITY MEASURES AFTER QUAKE OPEC member Ecuador adopted austeritymeasures to conserve fuel after oil production was paralyzed bya strong earthquake.    Energy and Mines Minister Javier Espinosa announced ontelevision the country would cut domestic fuel sales by 30 pct.A ministry statement had earlier announced indefinitesuspension of crude oil exports, declaring force majeure.    Deputy Energy Minister Fernando Santos Alvite told atelevision interviewer that it could possibly take more than amonth to repair Ecuador's main pipeline linking Amazon basinoil fields to the Pacific Ocean coast.    The quake on Thursday, which registered six on the 12-pointMercalli scale, killed at least six people and was centred nearthe Reventador volcano about 90 km (50 miles) east of Quito.    Ecuador had recently been pumping 260,000 barrels per day.    The government's austerity measures ban the sale ofaviation fuel to foreign airliners on international routes andno fuel will be available for ships owned by foreign lines.    Ecuador also banned the sale of petrol on weekends andholidays and limited sales on weekdays, an Energy and MinesMinistry communique said. REUTER
TEXACO INC <TX> 84.1 MLN DLR DEFENSE CONTRACT Texaco Refining and Marketing Inc isbeing awarded a 84.1 mln dlr Defense Logistics Agency contractfor jet fuel, the Defense Department said.    It said work on the contract, which was awarded as part ofa multi-contract procurement program, is expected to becompleted by March 31, 1988. Reuter
CALTEX RAISES SINGAPORE OIL PRODUCT PRICES Caltex Petroleum Corp, a joint venturebetween Chevron Corp <CHV> and Texaco Inc <TX>, said it raisedposted prices for several petroleum products in Singapore,effective today.     The company said its naphtha posting is up three cts agallon to 43 cts. It said it is raising jet and kerosenepostings 2.5 cts, bringing jet to 52.5 cts and kerosene to 51.5cts.    Diesel grades are up two cts, Caltex said, bringing bothdiesel gas oil (one pct sulfur) and 52-57 D.I. (55 cetane) to52 cts a gallon, and diesel gas oil (0.5 pct) to 52 cts.    The company said it is increasing medium and heavy fuel oilpostings by one dlr a barrel. Medium is now 15.50 dlrs abarrel, and heavy fuel is 14.75 dlrs. Reuter
SHELL OIL GETS 104.3 MLN DLR CONTRACT Shell Oil Co of Houston has beenawarded a 104.3 mln dlr contract for jet fuel, the DefenseLogistics Agency said. REUTER
PHILLIPS <P> EXTENDS AVIATION FUEL, LUBE MARKETS Phillips Petroleum Co saidits Phillips 66 Co subsidiary is expanding its aviation fueland lubricants marketing activities into Southern California.    The company said it bagan selling aviation products on theWest Coast today at Combs Gates Palm Springs, which serves mostof Southern California. Reuter
VENEZUELA RE-ESTABLISHES POSTED PRODUCT PRICES Petroleos de Venezuela, PDVSA, thestate owned oil company, has re-established posted prices forsome light products and heavy fuel oil, industry sources in NewYork said.    The return to posted prices is a sign that the market isreturning to a more stable and orderly condition after a yearof volatile price movements in which Venezuela ceased postingprices and moved to negotiating prices with companies.    "We are in more stable market now and PDVSA has probablydecided to return to postings for some products," one industrytrade source said.       But there was no talk of Venezuela posting prices for crudeoil which were also dropped in 1986.    Posted prices were dropped in the first quarter of 1986  when prices for crude oil and products tumbled in response toOPEC's market share strategy and netback arrangements.    PDVSA has set out posted prices for several groups of lightproducts including gasoline, naphtha, jet kerosene anddistillates effective April 15 as follows.    Unleaded gasoline was posted at 19.74 dlrs a barrel (47 ctsa gallon) with leaded gasoline at 20.16 dlrs a barrel (48 cts agallon).       Light naphtha was posted at 17.85 dlrs a barrel (42.5 cts agallon), full range naphtha at 19.11 dlrs a barrel (45.50 cts agallon), and heavy naphtha at 19.53 cts a gallon (46.5 cts agallon).    Jet kerosene was posted at 18.90 dlrs a barrel, alsoeffective April 15, or (45 cts a gallon) with dual purposekerosene at 18.06 dlrs a barrel (43 cts a gallon).    Distillates of 0.2 pct sulphur and 0.3 pct sulphur gradeswere posted at 18.48 dlrs a barrel (44 cts a gallon), each with0.5 pct sulphur 18.08 dlrs a barrel (43.05 cts a gallon).    LPG postings, also effective from April 15, were made as follows, propane 175 dlrs a tonne (33.33 cts a gallon), butane210 dlrs a tonne (46.26 cts a gallon) and isobutane at 240 dlrsa tonne.    Heavy fuel products were given a posted price effectiveApril 10 and ranged from 0.3 pct sulphur at 19.35 dlrs a barrelto 17.21 dlrs a barrel for 2.8 pct sulphur.    Heavy fuel postings are also referred to as minimum exportprices. Reuter
EGYPT FUEL PRICE INCREASES PART OF REFORM PACKAGE Egypt has embarked on reforms sought bythe International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank byraising the price of diesel oil and other types of transportfuels.    The energy price increases were the first visible measurestaken in return for IMF standby credits and World Bank loans.    Effective today, fuel oil prices were trebled and prices ofgas oil, diesel and kerosene went up by over 50 pct, anEgyptian General Petroleum Corp (EGPC) official said. He saidfuel oil will sell for 28 Egyptian pounds a ton, instead of 7.5pounds.    Kerosene and gas oil were raised by 66 pct to sell for fivepiasters a litre, while diesel rose 50 pct to 4.5 piasters.    The government is expected also to act soon, possibly asearly as next weekend, to simplify the country's complexexchange rate system, bankers said.    Moving towards a more realistic exchange rate for the poundwas part of a package of reforms sought by the IMF and creditorgovernments. In return, Egypt stands to receive up to onebillion dlrs in IMF standby credits phased over three years tohelp it repay its 38.6 billion dlr foreign debt and guaranteerescheduling by western governments, the main creditors.    Energy price increases were also a condition of progress onWorld Bank project loans of up to 800 mln dlrs in energy,communications and other sectors which have been undernegotiation for several months, western diplomats said.    The U.S. And Western Europe have pledged political backingfor President Hosni Mubarak's government, committed to amulti-party political system and peace with Israel andstrategically poised in control of the Suez Canal.    Fuel price rises, postponed at least once and likely tolead to higher retail prices of basic goods, were a test of thegovernment's resolve to pursue economic reform, diplomats said.    But the new prices are still below world market levels.    There was no announcement of increases in more politicallysensitive products such as gasoline or natural gas, used forcooking, and the mass-circulation Al-Akhbar newspaper said theywould stay the same.    Official comment was not available on speculation amongbankers and diplomats that the Central Bank would soon tinkerwith the pound's exchange rates to try to channel more dollarsinto the banking system away from the illegal but toleratedfree market.    The Central Bank was expected to set up a committee inwhich 10 commercial banks, including the four state-ownedbanks, would decide the pound's value every day.    The official "incentive rate," currently set by the CentralBank daily, is around 1.36 pounds to the dollar, against 2.15on the free market.    Bankers predicted that the banks' committee might set ratesaround 1.80 or 1.90. But some doubted this would serve the aimof curbing the free market. REUTER
BANGLADESH TENDERS FOR TWO MLN BARRELS PETROLEUM Bangladesh Petroleum Corp said it floatedan international tender for imports of two mln barrels of JetKero, Superior Kero and High Speed Diesel for shipment duringJanuary-June 1988.    It said the offer for the petroleum products would be openuntil 0600 gmt on November 19. REUTER
