JAPAN UNEMPLOYMNENT RISES TO RECORD IN JANUARY Japan's seasonally adjusted unemploymentrate rose to a record 3.0 pct in January, the worst since theGovernment started compiling unemployment statistics under itscurrent system in 1953, up from the previous record 2.9 pct inDecember, the government's Management and Coordination Agencysaid.    Unemployment was up from 2.8 pct a year earlier.    Unadjusted January unemployment totalled 1.82 mln people,up from 1.61 mln in December and 1.65 mln a year earlier.    Male unemployment in January remained at 2.9 pct, equal tothe second-worst level set last December. Record maleunemployement of 3.1 pct was set in July 1986.    Female unemployment in January remained at 3.0 pct, equalto the record level marked in April, August, September andDecember last year.    January's record 3.0 pct unemployment rate mainly stemmedfrom loss of jobs in manufacturing industries, particularly inexport-related firms, due to the yen's continuing appreciationagainst the dollar, officials said.    Employment in manufacturing industries fell 380,000 from ayear earlier to 14.30 mln including 1.83 mln employed in thetextile industry, down 190,000 from a year earlier, and 1.06mln in transport industries such as carmakers and shipbuilders,down 170,000. REUTER
JAPAN'S UNEMPLOYMENT RATE SEEN RISING TO 3.5 PCT Japan's unemployment rate is expected tocontinue to climb to about 3.5 pct within the next year fromJanuary's three pct record, senior economists, including SusumuTaketomi of Industrial Bank of Japan, said.    December's 2.9 pct was the previous worst level since thegovernment's Management and Coordination Agency began compilingstatistics under its current system in 1953.    "There is a general fear that we will become a country withhigh unemployment," said Takashi Kiuchi, senior economist forthe Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan Ltd.    The government, which published the January unemploymentfigures today, did not make any predictions.    "At present we do not have a forecast for the unemploymentrate this year, but it is difficult to foresee the situationimproving," a Labour Ministry official said.    Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the government hadexpected the increase and had set aside money to help 300,000people find jobs in fiscal 1987 beginning in April.    Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone told a press conferencethe record rate underlines the need to pass the 1987 budgetwhich has been held up by opposition to proposed tax reforms.    The yen's surge has caused layoffs in the mainstay steeland shipbuilding industries. Other export-dependent industries,such as cars and textiles, have laid off part-time employeesand ceased hiring, economists said.    Although the growing service industry sector has absorbed agreat number of workers the trend is starting to slow down,said Koichi Tsukihara, Deputy General Manager of Sumitomo BankLtd's economics department.    However, other economists disagreed, saying the servicesector would be able to hire workers no longer needed by themanufacturing sector over the next five years.    The economists said the service sector should grow as thegovernment stimulates domestic demand under its program totransform the economy away from exports.    Although Japanese unemployment rates appear lower thanthose of other industrialised nations, methods for calculatingstatistics make them difficult to compare, economists warned.    "The three pct figure  could translate into a relativelyhigh figure if European methods were used," one economist said.More than half of January's 170,000 increase in jobless from ayear earlier were those aged between 15 and 24, Sumitomo'sTsukihara said. REUTER
FINNISH UNEMPLOYMENT AT 6.7 PCT IN DECEMBER Finnish unemployment was 6.7 pct inDecember last year compared with 6.8 pct in November and 6.1pct in December 1985, the Central Statistical Office said.    It said 173,000 people were unemployed in December 1986,174,000 in November and 157,000 in December 1985. REUTER
JAPAN'S UNEMPLOYMENT RATE SEEN RISING TO 3.5 PCT Japan's unemployment rate is expected tocontinue to climb to about 3.5 pct within the next year fromJanuary's three pct record, senior economists, including SusumuTaketomi of Industrial Bank of Japan, said.    December's 2.9 pct was the previous worst level since thegovernment's Management and Coordination Agency began compilingstatistics under its current system in 1953.    "There is a general fear that we will become a country withhigh unemployment," said Takashi Kiuchi, senior economist forthe Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan Ltd.    The government, which published the January unemploymentfigures today, did not make any predictions.    "At present we do not have a forecast for the unemploymentrate this year, but it is difficult to foresee the situationimproving," a Labour Ministry official said.    Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the government hadexpected the increase and had set aside money to help 300,000people find jobs in fiscal 1987 beginning in April.    Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone told a press conferencethe record rate underlines the need to pass the 1987 budgetwhich has been held up by opposition to proposed tax reforms.    The yen's surge has caused layoffs in the mainstay steeland shipbuilding industries. Other export-dependent industries,such as cars and textiles, have laid off part-time employeesand ceased hiring, economists said.    Although the growing service industry sector has absorbed agreat number of workers the trend is starting to slow down,said Koichi Tsukihara, Deputy General Manager of Sumitomo BankLtd's economics department.    However, other economists disagreed, saying the servicesector would be able to hire workers no longer needed by themanufacturing sector over the next five years. Reuter
BELGIAN UNEMPLOYMENT FALLS IN FEBRUARY Belgian unemployment, based on thenumber of jobless drawing unemployment benefit, fell to 12.1pct of the working population at the end of February from 12.6pct at the end of January, the National Statistics Office said.    The rate compares with 12.4 pct at the end of February1986.    The total number of jobless stood at 508,392, compared with530,587 at the end of January and 521,219 at the end ofFebruary 1986, the Statistics Office said. REUTER
U.S. FIRST TIME JOBLESS CLAIMS FALL IN WEEK New applications for unemploymentinsurance benefits fell to a seasonally adjusted 332,900 in theweek ended Feb 21 from 368,400 in the prior week, the LaborDepartment said.    The number of people actually receiving benefits underregular state programs totaled 3,014,400 in the week ended Feb14, the latest period for which that figure was available.    That was up from 2,997,800 the previous week.      Reuter
DUTCH GROWTH LIKELY TO SLOW, JOBLESS RISE IN 1987 Leaks of a major Dutch officialeconomic forecast due to be published on Monday indicatereduced economic growth and a renewed rise in unemployment thisyear, political and market sources say.    Concern over an anticipated fall in Dutch competitivenessthis year against a background of an average 2-1/2 pct wageincrease, zero inflation and a firm guilder has triggered somecalls for a change in monetary policy to help boost growth.    But whatever the government's response, the central bankwill stick to its policy of keeping the guilder firm, they say.    The official forecasting agency Centraal Planbureau (CPB)publishes its 1987 outlook at the start of a week which willalso see a key parliamentary debate on government finances andthe economy.    Merchant bank Pierson, Heldring en Pierson - in an estimatereflecting general sentiment - said last month that Dutcheconomic growth was now seen around one pct.    Domestic consumer spending is not expected to offset thedecline in export growth caused by slowing growth in WestGermany, the main Dutch trading partner, and the lower dollar,Pierson said in its February economic outlook.    The latest growth forecasts are well below a 1.5 to two pctgrowth figure seen by the CPB early last month and forecasts of2.5 pct economic growth in 1987 made last September.    The fall in unemployment is bottoming out and thegovernment has already admitted it will not meet its goal ofreducing unemployment by an annual 50,000 from 1986 to 1990.    Some analysts and industry leaders have questioned centralbank policy of pegging the guilder firmly to the mark and ifnecessary keeping interest rates up to support the guilder.    Employers federation NCW chairman Fred Lempers criticisedthe guilder's revaluation in line with the West German mark inlast January's European Monetary System (EMS) realignment andexpressed concern over its effect on competitiveness.    But the employers federation VNO noted the Dutch economyhad become more competitive since 1980 and the fall of thedollar was affecting this gain more than the EMS realignment.    Some analysts also question the central bank's decision notto copy the latest Bundesbank discount rate cut and insteadlower money market rates and abolish a credit quota surcharge.    Central bank president Wim Duisenberg has defended the movesaying the bank had adjusted the rates with the most impact onthe money market, noting "the (4.5 pct) discount rate is at themoment not the most important Dutch rate because it is alreadyfar below the market rates."    Central bank officials say the heavy dependence on trade ofthe Dutch economy requires a stable exchange rate, and interestrate policies serve that goal.    Analysts noted a large capital outflow from the Netherlandsrecently as foreign investments in Dutch stock are being soldto take profits.    Loosening the tie between the guilder and the mark wouldreduce international confidence in the guilder and make it moredificult to attract foreign capital, they said, noting Dutchinterest rates rose sharply when the guilder was not revaluedcompletely in line with the mark in a 1983 EMS realignment.    Many Dutch banks have reacted favourably to the decisionnot to copy the last German discount rate cut, but Piersonwarned it could actually add to uncertainty over the guilder.    Some analysts noted friction between the Finance Ministryand the central bank, with Finance Minister Onno Ruding havingsaid before the Bundesbank discount rate cut he favoured lowerDutch rates but that the Germans should move first.    One analyst said Ruding wanted to bring interest rates downto reduce the government debt burden.    A Finance Ministry spokesman said lower interest rates wereneeded but denied any suggestion of conflicting views betweenthe ministry and the central bank. "The cabinet's policy issteady, the guilder has to stay with the mark," he said. REUTER
FEBRUARY U.S. JOBS GAINS SHOW STRONGER ECONOMY Momentum in th U.S. economy may bepicking up given solid across-the board increases in theFebruary U.S. employment report, economists said.    U.S. non-farm payroll employment rose 337,000 in February,twice what the financial markets expected. This follows a319,000 gain in January, revised down from a previouslyreported 448,000 increase.    "Even if you look at January and February together, this isstill a much stronger report than the consensus expectation inthe market," said Allan Leslie of Discount Corporation.    Economists stressed that gains in hours worked signal muchlarger gains in February U.S. production and income thanpreviously forecast.    The average work week rose 0.2 hours to 35.0 hours from34.8 hours in January. The average manufacturing work week rose0.3 hours to 41.2 hours, the longest factory work week sinceNovember 1966, the Commerce Department said.    "The gains in manufacturing employment point to a verylarge increase in industrial production of between 0.5 and 0.7pct," said Joe Carson of Chemical Bank. This compares to a 0.4pct  gain in January U.S. industrial production.    Peter Greenbaum of Smith Barney Harris Upham and Co Incnoted that the average wage rate increased to 8.87 dlrs an hourin February from 8.83 dlrs in January.    "Combined with the increase in hours worked, this meanswe'll get a pretty healthy gain in personal income vis-a-visthe wage and salary disbursement," he said.    Greenbaum said that February U.S. personal income shouldrise at least 0.5 pct after being flat in January.    He said the February employment gains are consistent withhis firm's first quarter U.S. real gross national productgrowth forecast of 3.7 pct.    Economists agreed that the employment data were negativefor the credit markets in that they signal a healthier economyand no easing in the Federal Reserve's monetary policy. Butmost said that the market need not fear tighter policy either.    "This report is another reason for the Fed to not considereasing," said Ray Stone of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Inc.    "It gives them more room to address the dollar situation," hesaid. "If they had to nudge policy tighter, they could do so,but it's most likely they'll sit and wait."    "The data have not been uniform," Stone added. "Durablegoods were weak in January and now employment is strong."    In January, U.S. durable goods orders dropped 7.5 pct,followed by a 4.0 pct drop in U.S. factory goods orders. U.S.retail sales fell 5.8 pct, and the U.S. merchandise trade gapwidened to 14.8 billion dlrs.    "Things just aren't adding up," said Steve Slifer of LehmanGoverment Securities Inc. "Consumer spending, capital spending,goverment spending, and net exports data show very weak firstquarter GNP growth of one pct," he said.    "The employment and production data point to a biginventory build-up, but that's what we thought in the fourthquarter and we only got 1.3 pct GNP growth."    Manufacturing employment gained 50,000 after falling 15,000in January. Economists estimated that 30,000 of the gain wasaccounted for by striking workers in the steel and machineryindustries returning to work.    Even so, some economists said that the manufacturing gainshave resulted from an improving trade outlook.    Jason Benderly of Goldman, Sachs and Co noted that the U.S.trade picture improved in the fourth quarter as net exportsgrew at a 20 pct annual rate while the rate of increase inimports fell to only six pct, and that it continues to improvein the first quarter.    "Not only the official statistics for the fourth quarter,but evidence of a pick up in orders from overseas for paperproducts, chemicals, high-tech goods, and capital goods showthat trade is improving," Benderley said.    "The economy is moving between extremes," he said. "Somereports are going to look bad and some good, but first quarterGNP is going to grow in the middle at about three pct."    A 287,000 gain in services employment comprised the greaterpart of February's employment gain. Retail services employmentrose 129,000 in February, compared to a gain of 117,000 inJanuary, previously reported at 166,000.    Construction employment rose a slim 2,000 in February. Butthis follows a robust 113,000 gain in January, revised downfrom a previously reported 142,000 gain.    The U.S. civilian unemployment rate was unchanged inFebruary at 6.7 pct. This means the jobless rate has stayed at6.7 pct for three consecutive months, the lowest reading sinceMarch 1980, the Commerce Department noted.    "The Federal Reserve has to be pleased with this report,"Carson said. "This takes away the Fed's flexibility to ease,but there's no reason to tighten. It's way too early for that."       Reuter
FRENCH GOVERNMENT TO STEP UP AID TO JOBLESS The government plans to go ahead with athree billion franc package to help the long-term unemployed,with the aim of guaranteeing social security payments toeveryone becoming redundant, government officials said.    At present only about one-third of the country's 2.6 mlnjobless, corresponding to 10.9 pct of the workforce, receiveunemployment benefit.    Prime Minister Jacques Chirac told a televisioninterviewer, "As soon as the law is approved, and it will be ina matter of weeks, all workers made redundant will have theright to social benefits."    The money, which will be used to alleviate unemploymentthrough retraining or project finance, will come from a 7.5billion franc government fund set up last month to financespending on special areas of concern.    Apart from unemployment, these include relief to farmershit by European Community cost-cutting measures.    French unemployment has risen by more than 40 pct from 1.8mln when socialist President Francois Mitterrand took office in1981. REUTER
DUTCH PLANNING AGENCY FORECASTS LOWER GROWTH Dutch economic growth is slowing as afirming guilder cuts competitiveness abroad and industriesreduce the pace of investment, the Dutch official planningagency CPB said.    The Centraal Planbureau, publishing its 1987 economicoutlook, said Dutch Net National Income (NNI) was expected togrow by one pct this year, down from two pct growth recorded in1986 and 2.5 pct in 1985 and 1984.    Dutch Gross National Product is expected to rise to 432.20billion guilders in 1987 in constant prices, a two pct increasefrom last year's 423.95 billion.    The CPB, forecasting an 8.5 pct increase in the value ofthe guilder on a trade-weighted basis compared with 10.0 pctlast year, said the dollar was expected to trade at an averageof 2.0 guilders in 1987 compared with 2.45 guilders in 1986.    "The higher guilder is causing a substantial fall in unitlabour costs abroad, when measured in guilder terms, whilethese are rising slightly in the Netherlands," the CPB said.    More of economic growth now depended on domesticconsumption, the CPB said, but noting that higher margins setby domestic producers and importers mitigated the effect onpurchasing power of lower import costs and deflation.    Consumer prices were set to fall by 1.5 pct this year, theCPB said. Inflation was zero last year.    Gross investment in industry was expected to grow by fivepct this year, a slowdown compared with 11.5 pct growth lastyear, the CPB said.    Exchange rate and oil price fluctuations will continue tocondition the Dutch economy in the future as it has in recentyears, the CPB said, noting a continued depressing impact ofthese factors on Dutch competitiveness.    In addition, it noted a slight rise in taxation and socialsecurity costs to employers.    The CPB, forecasting a rise in the budget deficit to 7.2pct of Net National Income in 1987 from 6.3 pct last year,urged the government to cut expenditure further to bring downthe deficit and reduce tax and social security payments infuture.    Dutch government revenue is being depressed further byfalling income from natural gas sales in 1987, the CPB said.    It said unemployment was expected to fall to 675,000 thisyear from 710,000 last year.    While the two pct GDP growth forecast set by the CPB iswithin its latest forecast, issued last month, of 1.5 to twopct growth, the figure is well above recent market estimates.    Dutch merchant bank Pierson, Heldring en Pierson said inits February economic outlook that GDP growth at constantprices was expected to be 1.1 pct this year and market analystshad expected the CPB's final forecast to be below its ownlatest estimate.    "It is too early to comment because I haven't seen the wholedocument yet, but it would seem we are more pessimistic in someof our estimates," a Pierson economist said.    The CPB forecast 2.5 pct export growth in volume terms in1987, after four pct growth last year. Excluding energyexports, the 1987 figure would be two pct, it said.    Imports were set to rise by 4.5 pct this year compared withfour pct in 1986 in volume terms, the CPB said.    The balance of payments would see a sharp decline in thesurplus, to six billion guilders in 1987 compared with 12.1billion last year, the CPB forecast. REUTER
JAPAN'S JOBLESS SEEN RISING TO 3.3 PCT IN 1987/88 The yen's rise against the dollar isexpected to boost Japan's unemployment rate to an average 3.3pct in the 1987/88 fiscal year beginning April 1 from January'srecord three pct, the private Nomura Research Institute said.    The official 1987/88 estimate is 2.9 pct.    The research arm of Nomura Securities Co forecastunemployment would exceed two mln by mid-fiscal 1987, againstan estimated 1.75 mln for the current year.    Nomura urged the government to take pump-priming measuresto help redress trade imbalances and boost employment.    Employment in manufacturing during fiscal 1987/88 waspredicted to fall 550,000 from the current year due to higherjob losses in the steel, shipbuilding and heavy electricalmachinery sectors, Nomura said.    Employment in the non-manufacturing sector will continue toincrease, the institute said, without giving figures. REUTER
JAPAN'S JOBLESS SEEN RISING TO 3.3 PCT IN 1987/88 The yen's rise against the dollar isexpected to boost Japan's unemployment rate to an average 3.3pct in the 1987/88 fiscal year beginning April 1 from January'srecord three pct, the private Nomura Research Institute said.    The official 1987/88 estimate is 2.9 pct.    The research arm of Nomura Securities Co forecastunemployment would exceed two mln by mid-fiscal 1987, againstan estimated 1.75 mln for the current year.    Nomura urged the government to take pump-priming measuresto help redress trade imbalances and boost employment.    Employment in manufacturing during fiscal 1987/88 waspredicted to fall 550,000 from the current year due to higherjob losses in the steel, shipbuilding and heavy electricalmachinery sectors, Nomura said.    Employment in the non-manufacturing sector will continue toincrease, the institute said, without giving figures. REUTER
DUTCH ADJUSTED UNEMPLOYMENT UNCHANGED IN FEBRUARY Dutch seasonally-adjustedunemployment totalled 690,600 people in February, unchangedfrom January but down from 732,700 in February 1986, a SocialAffairs Ministry spokesman said.    The unadjusted figure stood at 708,700 at the end of lastmonth, a decline of 3,800 from the January total of 712,500 andcomparing with 750,000 at the end of February last year. REUTER
AUSTRALIAN UNEMPLOYMENT EASES IN FEBRUARY Australia's seasonally-adjustedunemployment rate eased to 8.2 pct of the estimated workforcein February from 8.3 pct in January, compared with 7.9 pct ayear earlier, the Statistics Bureau said.    The number of unemployed declined to 632,100 from 638,300in January, against 594,500 in February 1986, it said.    But unadjusted, the number of jobless rose to 699,800 or9.1 pct of the workforce from 671,400 or 8.9 pct in January and658,500 or 8.7 pct a year earlier. REUTER
DANISH UNEMPLOYMENT RISES TO 7.9 PCT IN JANUARY Denmark's seasonally adjustedunemployment rate rose to 7.9 pct of the workforce in Januaryfrom 7.8 pct in December, unchanged from January 1986, theNational Statistics Office said.    The total of unemployed in January was 216,200 against212,200 in December and 216,600 in January 1986. REUTER
SPANISH UNEMPLOYMENT RISES IN FEBRUARY The number of Spanish registeredunemployed rose by 15,608 to 2.98 mln or 21.5 pct of theworkforce in January in the sixth consecutive monthly increase,the Labour Ministry said.    Registered unemployed totalled 2.81 mln or 21.1 pct of theworkforce in February 1986. REUTER
CANADA FEBRUARY UNEMPLOYMENT FALLS TO 9.6 PCT FROM JANUARY 9.7 PCT, STATISTICS CAN The Singapore government shouldreduce its stake in major state-owned or run companies likeSingapore Airlines Ltd <AIRH.SI> to around 30 pct over the nextdecade and privatise statutory boards, a government reportsaid.    The report of the Public Sector Divestment Committee alsorecommended flotation of as many government-linked companies(glcs) as possible, and secondary distribution of state-ownedshares to add breadth and depth to the Singapore stock market.    The Singapore government owns or backs 608 companies underthree holding companies with total assets in access of 10billion dlrs, the report said.    The report said a study of 99 glcs showed that 41 of themshould be privatised, 52 should not be privatised, and sixshould be studied further because they have foreign governmentparticipation, serve a "social mission," or are defence-related.    Of the 41, 15 should seek listing on The Stock Exchange ofSingapore Dealing and Automated Quotation System (SESDAQ),including shipyards, printing firms and airport service firms.    The government should privatise a further 17, includingIntraco Ltd (a government trading firm), Chemical Industries(FE) Ltd, and Acma Electrical Industries Ltd, and reduce itsstake in nine, it added.    These included Singapore Airlines, SIA, now 63 pct-owned bythe government's Temasek Holdings, The Development Bank ofSingapore <DBSM.SI>, Keppel Corp Ltd <KPLM.SI>, SembawangShipyard Ltd <BAWH.SI> and Neptune Orient Lines Ltd.    The ceiling on foreign ownership of SIA should be allowedto rise to 49 pct from the current 20 pct, it said.    "The committee recommends that Temasek Holdings reduces itsstake (in SIA) in tranches to around 30 pct. The size andtiming of each tranche would depend on the absorptive capacityof the Singapore stock market," it added.    Trading in shares of SIA, which has a paid-up capital of619 mln dlrs, closed here today at 10.60 dlrs.    The report said the government's 48 pct stake in DBS, oneof Singapore's four major local banks, should be cut to 30 pctthrough public offerings or dilution by issuing new shares.    Among firms which should not be privatised, nine are to bewound up, it said, including storage and food trading firms.    The report said seven statutory boards should be consideredfor privatisation so as to reduce competition with the privatesector, with a 20 pct ceiling on foreign ownership.    The seven include the Telecommunications Authority ofSingapore, the Public Utilities Board, the Port of SingaporeAuthority, the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore and theSingapore Broadcasting Corp.    The latter is least able to be privatised because of thesensitivity of its activities, it said.    "The others can be privatised only after various issues havebeen thoroughly debated and adequate safeguards formulated forpost-privatisation control and regulation," it added.    "The committee recommends that as many government-linkedcompanies as possible should be privatised," the report said.    But it added that there should be "a policy of robustprivatisation where initiative is decentralised and order ismaintained through adequate monitoring, control and direction."    The committee's findings will be subject to final approvalfrom the Ministry of Finance. REUTER
CANADA FEBRUARY UNEMPLOYMENT 9.6 PCT Canada's February unemployment rate,seasonally adjusted, fell to 9.6 pct from 9.7 pct in January,Statistics Canada said. The rate was 9.8 pct in February lastyear.    Seasonally adjusted employment in February was 11,777,000,compared with 11,747,000 in January, while unemployment slippedto 1,252,000 from 1,255,000. Reuter
SWISS UNEMPLOYMENT FALLS TO 0.9 PCT IN FEBRUARY Swiss unemployment edged down to 0.9 pctof the working population from one pct in January and inFebruary 1986, the Federal Office of Industry, Trade and Laboursaid.    Seasonally adjusted, however, there was a slight rise inunemployment.    The number out of work fell to 28,439, down 1,142 comparedwith the previous month. The number of vacant positionsregistered with employment offices stood at 11,968 against10,694 in January. REUTER
SWEDISH UNEMPLOYMENT DOWN AS DATA IS REVISED A new method of calculating Sweden'sunemployment figures reduced the number of jobless by a sixth,a spokesman for the Central Bureau of Statistics (SCB) said,reporting a substantial drop in the past year.    According to the revised data there were 94,000 jobless inFebruary representing 2.2 pct of the workforce against 120,000or 2.8 pct of the workforce in February 1986.    SCB official Olle Wessberg said the new figures were basedon a more extensive survey of the unemployed which broughtSweden into line with the practises recommended by theGeneva-based International Labour Organisation.    Wessberg said the new method cut the number of unemployedby about 16 pct. "The way we are now collecting data is far moreaccurate and we are asking many more questions to find outwhether the jobless want work, whether they are able to workand whether they have actually looked for work," he toldReuters.    The new method was first used for the January figures,which showed unemployment dropping to 2.1 pct of the workforcefrom 2.7 pct (old style) in December, but Wessberg said thechange had apparently not been noticed by the press.    Recalculated according to the new method, unemployment inFebruary 1986 would have stood at 2.2 pct, the SCB said. REUTER
BANK OF FRANCE SEES CONTINUED INDUSTRIAL PICKUP The Bank of France expects a continuedrevival in short-term industrial activity, but the outlook forany improvement in France's record 10.9 pct unemployment rateremains bleak, the Bank of France said in its monthly review.    The upturn in activity in all industrial sectors except theagro-food sector in February more than compensated for the fallin January, while construction and civil engineeringexperienced a recovery which appears likely to extend over thenext few months.    Internal demand rose and the export situation improved, inparticular toward the European Community (EC), the Bank said.    Stocks decreases and order book levels, with the exceptionof the agro-food industry, improved substantially.    In addition, retail prices and salaries stabilised lastmonths.    Production rose in all sectors except agriculturalmachinery and aeronautics, where it stabilised, and shipconstruction, where it declined.    The car industry was the major beneficiary of the upturn inactivity in February, with both domestic and export ordersrising.    In the consumer goods sector, actitity rose sharply despitea fall in the household goods sector and stability inpharmaceuticals.    Among semi-finished products, output rose sharply, helpedby a strong growth in construction materials.    But activity in the retail sector declined slightly overthe past two months. REUTER
FRANCE ANNOUNCES PLAN TO BOOST EMPLOYMENT The government announced a three billionfranc program to combat long-term unemployment amid speculationamong political and economic analysts that it is positioningitself for a period of economic reflation.    The package presented to the cabinet of Prime MinisterJacques Chirac by Social Affairs and Labour Minister PhilippeSeguin today is to be financed out of a 7.5 billion franccontingency fund announced on February 25.    Finance Minister Edouard Balladur previously ruled out areflationary program.    Long-term unemployment, defined as being out of work formore than one year, affects about 830,000 people or one thirdof French unemployed, government figures show.    The main measures of the employment program give employersfinancial incentives to offer short-term work contracts of atleast two years and stress retraining to help the long-termunemployed return to the labour market.    Training subsidies and exemptions from social securitycontributions are the main incentives for employers.    "Companies tell us that we have to give them a strongincentive to take on people who have fallen out of the labourmarket and that's why the proposals...Are costly," an aide toSeguin said.    The analysts said speculation the government is consideringa reflationary program was sparked by Chirac spokesman DenisBaudouin, who said yesterday that ministers were generallyagreed on the desirability of relaunching the economy.    He appeared to contradict statements by Balladur ruling outeconomic stimulation despite the government's revision of its1987 growth forecast to about 2.0 pct from 2.8.    Finance ministry officials later clarified Baudouin'sremarks, saying there was no question of any move to stimulatethe economy through a boost to consumer spending althoughgovernment policy allowed for increased industrial investmentfrom the proceeds of France's five-year privatisation plan.    The 1987 budget allowed for 30 billion francs in revenuefrom privatisation, to be split between repaying national debtand providing state enterprises with fresh capital.    Some political analysts said Baudouin's comments possiblyreflect widening differences within the RPR-UDF coalition onsocial issues ahead of next year's presidential elections.     Divisions began to show last December, when a wave ofstrikes led by transport workers paralysed the country anddrove the government into a new mood of conciliation withlabour.     Officials said that after the success of the privatisationof Cie de Saint Gobain <SGEP.PA> and Cie Financiere de Paribas<PARI.PA> the government had decided to speed up its five-yearprivatisation program with the aim of completing a third of itthis year, ahead of the presidential elections expected in1988.    The accelerated program could provide additional unbudgetedrevenue to boost industrial and research investment andspending on infrastructure such as the national motorwaynetwork.   The government also today revived a proposal, blocked lastyear by Socialist president Francois Mitterrand, to encouragemore flexible working hours, which it says will boost jobs byimproving the competitiveness of French industry.    The proposals allowing night-shift work by women andvariations in the standard 39-hour working week are to be putto parliament as a self-contained draft bill after being vetoedfor procedural reasons by Mitterrand and later the Council ofState. REUTER
NEW ZEALAND UNEMPLOYMENT FALLS IN FEBRUARY New Zealand's unemployment rate fellto 6.0 pct of the workforce at the end of February from 6.1 pctin January but was above the 4.3 pct level of February 1986,the labour department said.    It said the number of unemployed fell to 78,711 from 81,558in January, and compared with 57,103 in February 1986. REUTER
UK UNIT WAGE/LABOUR COSTS ROSE 3.3 PCT IN THREE MONTHS ENDING JAN -  Shr 14.58p vs 7.86p    Div 6.5p making 9.75p, an increase of 19.4 pct    Pretax profit 83.2 mln stg vs 31.5 mln    Net after tax 68.6 mln stg vs 37.7 mln    Pretax profit 83.2 mln stg vs 31.5mln, consists of -    Long term business 45.9 mln stg vs 43.8 mln    U.S. Long term business 6.2 mln vs 8.9 mln    Fund management 4.7 mln vs 6.5 mln    Short term business 4.7 mln vs loss 29.0 mln    Associate companies 0.9 mln vs 0.8 mln    Shareholders other income and outgoings 0.4 mln debit vs0.5 mln credit    Exceptional long-term business profit 21.4 mln vs nil REUTER
U.K. UNEMPLOYMENT FALLS IN FEBRUARY Unemployment in the U.K. Fell aprovisional seasonally-adjusted 44,100 in February, to total3.07 mln or 11.1 pct of the workforce, the EmploymentDepartment said.    In January, seasonally adjusted unemployment fell by arevised 1,100 to 11.3 pct, it said. Initially the Januaryposition was reported as flat.    The unadjusted jobless total, including school leavers,fell to 3.23 mln, or 11.7 pct, from 3.30 mln, 11.9 pct, inJanuary.    February was the seventh successive month that seasonallyadjusted unemployment registered a fall.    It was at a peak of 11.7 pct last summer.    Lord Young, the Employment Minister, said there appearedlittle doubt the monthly fall, which has been running at about20,000, will continue.    A Department spokesman said the sharp fall in Februaryreflected some compensation for the flat figure in January andcontinued the downward trend seen in the past six months.    He said the February fall was spread throughout the countryand among men and women. REUTER
U.S. FIRST TIME JOBLESS CLAIMS FELL IN WEEK New applications for unemploymentinsurance benefits fell to a seasonally adjusted 340,000 in theweek ended March 7 from 373,000 in the prior week, the LaborDepartment said.    The number of people actually receiving benefits underregular state programs totaled 2,507,000 in the week ended Feb28, the latest period for which that figure was available.    That was up from 2,477,000 the previous week.      Reuter
FRENCH GDP SHOULD RISE 2.3 PCT IN 1988 - MINISTRY French gross domestic product should growby 2.3 pct in 1988 after two pct growth this year and 2.1 pctin 1986, the Finance Ministry said.    The latest forecast, prepared by the National Accounts andBudget Commission, assumed an exchange rate of 6.20 francs tothe dollar this year and next and an average oil import pricerising to 18.9 dlrs a barrel next year from 17.4 dlrs this yearand 14.7 in 1986.    The Commission, headed by Finance minister EdouardBalladur, forecast a fall in consumer price inflation to twopct year-on-year at end-1988 from 2.4 pct at end 1987 and 2.1pct last year.    In annual average terms inflation would fall to two pct in1988 from 2.5 pct this year and 2.7 pct last year, it said.    Trade should show a one billion franc annual surplus thisyear and next after last year's 0.5 billion surplus, it added.    Employment should rise by 0.1 pct a year over the next twoyears while the state budget deficit should be cut to 2.2 pctof GDP in 1988 from 2.6 pct this year and 2.9 pct in 1986.    Other forecasts prepared by the Commission indicated a 1.8pct 1988 rise in household purchasing power, up from 1.1 pctthis year but less than last year's 2.9 pct, and a 1.6 pct risein household consumption, compared with this year's 1.5 pct andlast year's 2.9 pct.    Business investment is forecast to rise four pct a yearthis year and next after 3.7 pct last year, with private sectorproductive investment rising 4.9 pct in 1988 after a six pctrise this year and 5.5 pct in 1986.    The Ministry said updated forecasts would be preparedbefore the autumn to serve as the basis for the 1988 budget,which the government is now preparing for presentation inSeptember. REUTER
FRENCH EMPLOYERS CHIEF SEES HOPE FOR GROWTH The 1992 deadline for abolishing economicbarriers within the European Community should help Frencheconomic growth and create jobs, president of the Frenchemployers' federation CNPF Francois Perigot said.    "Having a market at our disposal which is as homogeneous andaccessible as that of Europe is an incredible piece of luck," hetold Le Figaro in an interview.    He said that the majority of French business leaders wereenthusiastic about the abolition of barriers and saw it as anopportunity rather than a danger for their companies.    "It can permit us to return to a growth rate which is muchbetter than we could achieve in isolation. We know that we haveto reestablish growth at three pct a year to solve the enormousproblems confronting us -- and I am referring mainly tounemployment," Perigot added.    Finance Minister Edouard Balladur said yesterday thatFrench growth would be just two pct this year, the same as lastyear and compared with the government's original 2.8 pcttarget. REUTER
U.S. ECONOMY SHOWS PROMISING SIGNS OF GROWTH The U.S. economy is showing somepromising signs of accelerated expansion despite thesluggishness of the fourth quarter last year, privateeconomists say.    Some of the slowness experienced in the October-Decemberperiod had been expected to spill over into the first quarterthis year, as the tax law changes that went into effect inJanuary slowed business and consumer spending.    But some of the latest economic data show signs ofsurprising strength in the U.S. economy, although someeconomists remain cautious about the outlook.    The Commerce Department reported today that new orders fordurable goods in February jumped by 5.7 billion dlrs, a six pctrise, to 101.2 billion dlrs. Even excluding volatile defensegoods, durable goods orders rose a healthy 3.8 pct, the agencysaid.    The February numbers surpassed the expectations of manyfinancial analysts, whose predictions ranged from flat toincreases of up to five pct.    The January/February employment statistics suggest theGross National Product will show a healthy rate of growth forthe first three months of this year, said Lyle Gramley, aneconomist with the Mortgage Bankers Association.    The U.S. jobless rate in February and January was 6.7 pct,the lowest rate since March 1980. The number of new non-farmjobs rose by 337,000 in February after a 319,000 gain inJanuary and a 225,000 December increase, the government said.    The employment data suggests a GNP annual growth rate ofabout three to 3.25 pct in the first quarter, said Gramley.    Much of that will be attributed to businesses rebuildingtheir inventories and is not likely to be sustained in thesecond quarter, Gramley said. He expects a slowdown in thesecond quarter with smaller increases in personal consumptionand government spending. He also sees residential constructiondeclining mostly for multi-family housing units.    Fidelity Bank senior economist Mickey Levy said some of thefourth quarter slowness will continue.    Levy predicts GNP will grow at a scant 1.5 pct rate in thefirst quarter of 1987, accelerate during the second quarter andshow a brisk 4.5 pct annual rate in the third quarter.    The key to both forecasts is a marked improvement in theU.S. trade balance which is expected because of the decline inthe dollar's value over the last year and half.    "The improvement will be gradual and long lasting," Levypredicted. Most of it will be through import reduction, but atleast one-third will be due to a rise in product exports as theprices of U.S. goods become more attractive overseas.    The Reagan administration has predicted the trade deficit,which soared to record levels last year, will improve this yearand the U.S. economy will grow by a respectable 3.2 pct for theyear compared with a 2.5 pct rate last year.    As part of the effort to reduce the trade deficit, the U.S.has been pressing West Germany and Japan to stimulate theirdomestic demand for goods from the U.S. and others.    U.S. officials believe that would help take some of thepressure off the United States whose five years of economicgrowth has been the mainstay of developing countries.    The U.S. economy provided them with a giant market fortheir goods giving them a way to earn income badly needed toservice their foreign debt.    The government last week said the U.S. economy grew at amodest 1.1 pct annual rate during the fourth quarter.    There were indications of improvement in the huge imbalancebetween the volume of goods imported to the United States andthose shipped abroad. The report showed a rising volume ofexports corresponding to a decline in imports despite the factthat in current dollar terms, the U.S. trade deficit worsenedduring the closing three months of 1986.    While fourth quarter economic growth was weak, corporateprofits jumped a healthy 6.1 pct during the period, thegovernment said. It also reported that inflation, as measuredby the GNP price deflator, remained in check, growing amoderate 0.7 pct in the period, the lowest rise in 19 years.    The government also reported that consumer spending, a keyelement of the five year economic recovery, jumped 1.7 pct inFebruary, after falling two pct in January.    The Federal Reserve Board also reported that themanufacturing sector, which had been one of the weaker elementsof the U.S. economy, was showing signs of recovery.    In its latest report on current economic conditions, theFed said that economic activity in the various regions of thecountry ranged from uneven or steady to improving.Manufacturing activity showed signs of improvement in mostregions except Dallas where orders remained sluggish.    Chase Econometrics Chairman Lawrence Chimerine said thepick up in the U.S. manufacturing sector is largely due to thedrop in the dollar's value. He said he does not foresee a majorpick up in economic activity, but does not believe the economywill slip into recession either.    He said higher prices on imported products and wage cutsthat have helped the manufacturing sector will squeezeconsumers purchasing power.    "That pattern is starting and will continue for a number ofyears," Chimerine said. He sees economic growth hovering arounda modest two pct level for the next few years. Reuter
KEATING REVISES DOWN AUSTRALIAN GROWTH FORECAST Treasurer Paul Keating forecasteconomic growth at slightly under two pct in the financial yearending June this year, down from the 2.25 pct forecastcontained in the 1986/87 budget delivered last August.    Australia's terms of trade also fell, by 18 pct, over thepast two years, he told Parliament. Terms of trade are thedifference between import and export price indexes.    Despite the figures, the budget forecast of about 1.75 pctannual growth in employment would be met, Keating said.    Unemployment is currently at 8.2 pct of the workforce.    "This government is dragging Australia through a tradingholocaust the kind of which we have not seen since the SecondWorld War," Keating said.    "We are not pushing this place into a recession. We are notonly holding our gains on unemployment, we are bringingunemployment down," he said, adding that the government had helpthe country avoid recession. REUTER
FRENCH UNEMPLOYMENT RISES TO SEASONALLY ADJUSTED 2.65 MLN IN FEBRUARY -  Lead underwriter <Goldman, Sachs andCo> said an initial public offering of 58,750,000 shares of<Consolidated Rail Corp> common stock has been priced at 28.00dlrs per share.    The sale is the largest initial public offering ever.  Allof the shares are being sold by the U.S. government.  Theyrepresent an 85 pct interest in Conrail, the large northeasternfreight-carrying railroad.  Employees of Conrail retain theother 15 pct.    The shares will be traded on the New York Stock Exchangeunder the ticker symbol <CRR> starting this morning.    Initially, underwriters had said in proxy materials thatthe shares were expected to be priced at 22 to 26 dlrs pershare.  But last week they raised the expected range to 26 to29 dlrs per share.    Conrail was formed during the 1970's from Penn CentralRailroad and other financially-distressed northeastern railcarriers.    The offering will raise about 1.65 billion dlrs beforeunderwriting fees.  Previously, the largest initial publicoffering in dollar terms had been Henley Group Inc's <HENG> 1.3billion dlr spinoff from Allied Corp <ALD> last year.    Other lead underwriters are First Boston Inc <FBC>, MerrillLynch and Co Inc <MER>, Salomon Inc <SB> and American ExpressCo's <AXP> Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc.    Fifty-two mln shares are being sold in the U.S. through asyndicate of 148 underwriters and 6,750,000 overseas through a27-member syndicate. Reuter
FRENCH FEBRUARY UNEMPLOYMENT HITS RECORD 2.65 MLN French unemployment rose to a recordseasonally adjusted 2.65 mln in February from 2.61 mln inJanuary and 2.57 mln at the end of last year, the LabourMinistry said.    The rise took the percentage of the workforce out of a jobto 11.0 pct last month from 10.9 pct in January and 10.7 pct atthe end of 1986.    In unadjusted terms unemployment fell by around 30,000 lastmonth to 2.70 mln. REUTER
U.S. FIRST TIME JOBLESS CLAIMS ROSE IN WEEK New applications for unemploymentinsurance benefits rose to a seasonally adjusted 341,000 in theweek ended March 14 from 340,000 in the prior week, the LaborDepartment said.    The number of people actually receiving benefits underregular state programs totaled 2,454,000 in the week endedMarch 7, the latest period for which that figure was available.    That was up from 2,507,000 the previous week.      Reuter
KEATING REVISES DOWN AUSTRALIAN GROWTH FORECAST Treasurer Paul Keating forecasteconomic growth at slightly under two pct in the financial yearending June this year, down from the 2.25 pct forecastcontained in the 1986/87 budget delivered last August.    Australia's terms of trade also fell, by 18 pct, over thepast two years, he told Parliament. Terms of trade are thedifference between import and export price indexes.    Despite the figures, the budget forecast of about 1.75 pctannual growth in employment would be met, Keating said.    Unemployment is currently at 8.2 pct of the workforce.    "This government is dragging Australia through a tradingholocaust the kind of which we have not seen since the SecondWorld War," Keating said.    "We are not pushing this place into a recession. We are notonly holding our gains on unemployment, we are bringingunemployment down," he said, adding that the government had helpthe country avoid recession. REUTER
ITALIAN 1986 GDP UP 2.7 PCT, UNEMPLOYMENT RISES Extracts from a report by Italy's BudgetMinistry on the country's economic development in 1986 showedgross domestic product (GDP) 2.7 pct higher in real terms thanin 1985 but a rise in unemployment.    GDP calculated at 1980 prices rose to 434,682 billion lirelast year from 423,064 billion in 1985. On a current pricesbasis, GDP was up 11 pct, totalling 894,362 billion lire in1986 against 805,754 billion in 1985.     But growth was insufficient to prevent a rise inunemployment to 11.1 pct last year from 10.3 pct in 1985, theministry said.    The report said falling oil prices and the depreciation ofthe dollar during 1986 had favoured oil-importing countriessuch as Italy.    These factors helped Italy cut inflation to an average 6.3pct in 1986, down from 9.3 pct in 1985.    They also helped a major improvement in the trade balance.    On the basis of data recently recalculated by the nationalstatistics institute Istat, Italy had a trade deficit in 1986of 3,722 billion lire, the report said. This slightly revises aprevious deficit figure of 3,717 billion issued by Istat andcompares with a negative balance of 23,085 billion for 1985. Reuter
NORWEGIAN UNEMPLOYMENT FALLS IN MARCH Unemployment fell in March to 36,510, or1.7 pct of the workforce, compared with 39,700 (1.9 pct) inFebruary and 38,839 (2.2 pct) in March 1986, the LabourDirectorate said. REUTER
U.S. FIRST TIME JOBLESS CLAIMS ROSE IN WEEK New applications for unemploymentinsurance benefits rose to a seasonally adjusted 355,000 in theweek ended March 21 from 341,000 in the prior week, the LaborDepartment said.    The number of people actually receiving benefits underregular state programs totaled 2,480,000 in the week endedMarch 14, the latest period for which that figure wasavailable.    That was up from 2,454,000 the previous week.      Reuter
BELGIAN UNEMPLOYMENT FALLS IN MARCH Belgian unemployment, based on thenumber of jobless drawing unemployment benefit, fell to 11.8pct of the working population at the end of March from 12.1 pctat end of February, the National Statistics Office said.    The rate compares with 12.0 pct at the end of March, 1986.    The total number of jobless stood at 495,208, compared with508,392 in February and 504,652 in March last year. REUTER
EC TO BOOST SPENDING ON JOB CREATION THIS YEAR The European Community (EC) is to boostspending to help the jobless this year.    The EC's executive commission said in a statement spendingon its so-called social fund would rise to 3.1 billion EuropeanCurrency Units from 2.5 billion ECUs in 1986. The fund isdesigned to help boost job creation and improve workermobility, and supplement national schemes in the EC's 12 memberstates.    Another 60 mln ECUs could be added if EC ministers switchunused project credits to other programs, the Commission said.    Italy is the largest net beneficiary in 1987, getting 635mln ECUs, with Britain in second place with 580 mln. REUTER
GERMAN MARCH UNADJUSTED JOBLESS FALLS West German unemployment, unadjustedfor seasonal factors, fell to 2.41 mln in March from 2.49 mlnin February, the Federal Labour Office said.    The total represents 9.6 pct of the workforce compared with10.0 pct in February.    The seasonally adjusted jobless total rose, however, inMarch to 2.23 mln from 2.18 mln in February, it added.    In March last year the unadjusted unemployment total stoodat 2.45 mln and represented 9.8 pct of the workforce.Seasonally adjusted unemployment was 2.29 mln.    The Federal Labour Office said the number of workers onshort time rose by 80,629 to 462,802 and the number ofvacancies increased by 15,263 to 180,047.    Labour Office President Heinrich Franke, announcing thefigures, said the hesitant decline in the unadjusted joblesstotal reflected continuing bad weather, slack activity in thecapital goods sector and structural changes in the coal andsteel industry.    In a separate statement, the Federal Statistics Office saidthe rise in the overall number of people in employment hadslowed in February.    The Office said that, according to estimates for February,25.7 mln people were in work, a rise of around 240,000 or 0.9pct compared with the same month in 1986.    It noted that in January the year-on-year rise was 250,000or 1.0 pct and the number in work stood at 25.78 mln. Thedecline in February compared with January reflected seasonalfactors, it added. REUTER
DANISH UNEMPLOYMENT FALLS TO 7.8 PCT IN FEBRUARY Denmark's seasonally adjustedunemployment rate fell to 7.8 pct of the workforce in Februaryfrom 7.9 pct in January, against 7.9 pct in February 1986, theNational Statistics Office said.    The total number of unemployed in February was 213,200against 215,700 in January and 216,600 in February, 1986. REUTER
FINNISH JOBLESS RATE UNCHANGED UNDER NEW SYSTEM Finnish unemployment was 6.9 pct inJanuary after 6.9 pct in December and 6.8 pct in January lastyear according to the revised formula of the Central StatisticsOffice.    It said in a statement 173,000 were unemployed in Januaryand December against 158,000 in January 1986.    The new formula shows unemployed persons willing to work ifjobs were available but excludes any coming under the country'sunemployment pension scheme. REUTER
EC UNEMPLOYMENT FALLS SLIGHTLY IN FEBRUARY European Community unemployment fellslightly in February to just under 17 mln from 17.1 mln inJanuary, the EC statistic's agency Eurostat said.    It said the fall came despite a bad winter in most of theEC when seasonal factors could be expected to have had a moreadverse effect.    However, the agency added, the long-term trend wasvirtually unchanged stating that compared to February 1986 thenumber of registered unemployed increased by 222,000. REUTER
N.Z. UNEMPLOYMENT RATE 3.9 PCT IN DECEMBER QUARTER New Zealand's unemployment rate was3.9 pct of the workforce in the quarter ended December 31,unchanged from a revised 3.9 pct (preliminary 3.8 pct) in theprevious quarter but slightly above 3.8 pct in the year-earlierquarter, the Statistics Department said.    The Department, citing the Household Labour Force Survey,said in a statement the number of unemployed in October-December 1986 was 61,500 against 60,500 in the Septemberquarter and 60,500 a year earlier. REUTER
GERMAN INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT SEEN STAGNATING The number of workers employed inthe West German industrial sector stagnated in the last quarterof 1986 as a 50,000 increase in overall employment benefitedonly the services branch, the DIW economic institute said.    A DIW report added the general downturn in the economysince last Autumn had had a negative effect on the willingnessof firms to take on workers. It referred to a marked downturnin the number of workers taken on in the capital goods sector.    New orders for manufacturing industry goods have mostlyfallen or stagnated in recent months, but data for Februaryfinally showed a reversal of the trend, with a 1.9 pct rise. REUTER
SWEDISH UNEMPLOYMENT STEADY IN MARCH Swedish unemployment was steady at 2.2pct of the workforce in March compared with the previous month,the Central Bureau of Statistics said.    In March 1986, the figure stood at 2.4 pct. REUTER
AUSTRALIAN UNEMPLOYMENT RISES IN MARCH Australia's seasonally adjustedunemployment rate rose to 8.4 pct of the estimated workforce inMarch from 8.2 pct in February and 7.9 pct a year earlier, theStatistics Bureau said.    The number of jobless rose to 650,700 from 631,900 inFebruary and 593,200 a year earlier, the Bureau said.    Unadjusted, the number of unemployed rose to 702,600 from699,600 in February but the rate eased to 9.0 pct from 9.1,reflecting a slight increase in the estimated workforce. InMarch 1986, 640,400 persons, or 8.5 pct of the workforce, wereout of work. REUTER
U.S. FIRST TIME JOBLESS CLAIMS FELL IN WEEK New applications for unemploymentinsurance benefits fell to a seasonally adjusted 338,000 in theweek ended March 28 from 355,000 in the prior week, the LaborDepartment said.    The number of people actually receiving benefits underregular state programs totaled 2,436,000 in the week endedMarch 21, the latest period for which that figure wasavailable.    That was down from 2,480,000 the previous week.      Reuter
SPANISH UNEMPLOYMENT FALLS SLIGHTLY IN MARCH Spain's registered unemployment fell by10,465 people to 2.97 mln or 21.4 pct of the workforce inMarch, Labour Ministry figures show.    Registered unemployment in February was 2.98 mln people, or21.5 pct of the workforce.    The figures were nonetheless higher than those for March1986 -- 2.8 mln people and 21 pct of the workforce. REUTER
INSTITUTES DIVIDED ON OUTLOOK FOR GERMAN ECONOMY The five leading West German economicresearch institutes have failed to agree about how strongly thedomestic economy will expand this year but revised downforecasts contained in a report published six months ago.    The three research groups of Kiel, Hamburg and Essenpredicted in the institutes' joint spring report that grossnational product (GNP) would rise by two pct in 1987, comparedwith 2.4 pct in 1986. The five institutes had jointly forecastthree pct 1987 growth in October last year.    Taking a dissenting view, the DIW institute of West Berlinand Munich's Ifo institute predicted only one pct 1987 growth.    The joint report said that the estimates of economicdevelopment made by the DIW and Ifo were "markedly lessfavourable" than those of the other three.    The DIW and Ifo forecast the economy would pick up after aslow start to the year. "In the second half of 1987 there will,however, only be a weak upward movement," they said.    The two institutes said external economic factors whichwere currently damaging exports and pushing up imports woulddominate the economic environment throughout the year. They sawexports falling by a real 2-1/2 pct in 1987 and predicted nomarked improvement in the course of the year.    The other three institutes, however, wrote: "The decline indemand and production (seen) in the winter months does notindicate the beginning of a cyclical downswing."    They said the sharp rise of the mark had led to corporateuncertainty and companies had not carried out investment plans.But they expected that many investments had not been cancelledbut only put off. "It can be presumed that the braking actions(on the economy) will diminish markedly this year."    They added: "The domestic prerequisites for a continuationof the economic uptrend are still favourable."    These three institutes said diminishing external burdenscombined with favourable domestic conditions meant an upturn indemand and production could be expected by the spring.    However, this projection was clouded by risks including thefurther development of the mark against the dollar.    Contrary to the DIW and Ifo, the three institutes said thatwhile exports would continue to be the weak point of theeconomy in 1987, "there is good reason to believe that exportswill soon bottom out and that a slight rise will emerge duringthe course of the year." They predicted an overall 0.5 pct fallin exports in 1987, the same as in 1986.    The three more positive institutes saw private consumptionrising by four pct in 1987, compared with 4.2 pct in 1986,while DIW and Ifo predicted a three pct increase.    They saw the climate for equipment investment improving butpredicted only a rise of four pct in 1987 against 4.6 pct in1986. Ifo and DIW saw these investments rising by only two pct.    All the institutes predicted only a slight decline inunemployment. The Kiel, Hamburg and Essen institutes said thejobless total would average 2.17 mln in 1987 compared with 2.23mln in 1986 and predicted a rise in the number of people inwork of about 200,000.    These three institutes said new jobs would be createdmainly in the private services sector and also by the state inthe context of job creation measures. The construction industrywas likely to engage new workers for the first time since 1980but they predicted either no rise in employment in themanufactured goods industry or only a slight expansion.    The DIW and Ifo said rises in employment would occur onlyin the tertiary sector, while "the number employed in themanufacturing industry will decline."    The DIW and Ifo said unemployment would only decline to2.20 mln in 1987 from 2.23 mln in 1986.    They saw the current account surplus falling in 1987 to 58billion marks from 78 billion in 1986. The other three saw acurrent account surplus in 1987 of at least 60 billion marksand predicted that the trade surplus would fall to only around100 billion marks from 112 billion in 1986.    The institutes agreed that consumer prices would start torise in 1987, after they declined in 1986, and all fivepredicted an average increase over the year of 0.5 pct. REUTER
SWISS GROWTH SEEN SLOWING THIS YEAR AND NEXT The growth of the Swisseconomy will likely slow to 2.2 pct this year and 1.9 pct in1988 after reaching 2.8 pct last year, according to a study bya group at Basle University's Institute of Applied Economics.    It blamed the expected slowdown partly on a disappointingoutlook for exports caused by the weaker dollar. Exports wouldlikely grow by 2.8 pct this year and by 3.0 pct in 1988, after3.0 pct in 1986, the group predicted.    Final domestic demand will also fall back, to a likely 3.0pct this year and 2.3 pct next, after 4.1 pct in 1986. However,the domestic picture will likely be mixed.    The study said investment in plant and equipment wouldcontinue to be the main motor for the growth in domesticdemand, although it was unlikely to grow as fast as last year's7.4 pct, rising this year by 4.5 pct and by 2.8 pct in 1988.    While the growth in private consumption is expected to fallback to 2.5 pct this year and 2.1 pct in 1988 from last year's3.1 pct, public consumption spending will likely grow by 1.9pct in 1987 and 2.0 pct next year, after 1.5 pct in 1986.    Consumer prices were seen rising by 1.7 pct this year and2.4 pct in 1988, after just 0.8 pct in 1986. Unemploymentshould fall back to 0.7 pct from last year's 0.8 pct. REUTER
SEAGA PRESENTS GROWTH BUDGET FOR 1987 prime minister edward seagalast night presented a budget of 6.9 billion jamaica dlrs, thelargest in the country's history, which projects increases incapital spending and continued divestment of state companies.    In a nationally televised speech to the parliament, theprime minister, who is also minister of finance, said jamaica'sgdp grew by four pct, the highest level in 15 years, whileunemployment stood at 23.6 pct, down from last year's 26 pct.Inflation, meanwhile, was 9.4 pct, as compared to 19.7 pct twoyears ago.    Government revenues were up by 419 mln jamaica dlrs, to 4.3billion, enough to finance the entire recurrent expenditure of3.7 billion dlrs, with a 666 mln dlr surplus.    Seaga said that with financial accounts in order, thegovernment will proceed to reduce the country's debt serviceratio from the current level of 49 pct of gdp to 25 pct overthe next five years.    During this period, he said, growth would be targetted atthree to four pct.    The 6.9 billion dlr budget, which represents an increase of18 pct over last year's 5.8 billion, will be financed byborrowing of 8.868 billion dlrs and estmated revenue of 1.385billion.    Seaga said 1.835 billion of the budget will go to finance agovernment capital investment program. The plan, whichrepresents a 10.3 pct increase over last year, projects greaterspending on health, education, housing and infrastructure. Some818 mln dlrs in revenue to finance the budget will come fromthe government's divestment program, which seaga said will bestepped up in 1987. Reuter
OECD WARNS SWEDEN ON LABOUR COSTS High labour costs and slower corporateinvestment could hinder Sweden's economic growth after 1987,the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development,OECD, said.    The Swedish economy grew at a slower rate in 1986 than inprevious years. GDP rose about 1.7 pct in 1986 compared with2.2 pct in 1985. But this growth depended largely on externalfactors, particularly lower oil prices, the OECD secretariatsaid in its latest annual report on Sweden.    It warned that labour costs had risen more rapidly inSweden than in other OECD countries.    Because of high labour costs Swedish industry, whichlargely relies upon export markets, was losing market share.Wages in the manufacturing sector grew by seven pct in 1986, inline with 1985 increases, while public sector wages rose anestimated 9.2 pct in 1986, up from six pct in 1985.    This was significantly higher than average wage increasesof 3.75 pct for the seven largest members of the OECD in 1986.    The report said wage moderation was central to maintainingeconomic growth in Sweden. It suggested that wage negotiationsshould be at least partly centralised to control the totalwages bill and hold down inflation and unemployment levels.    Helped by low oil prices and the government's tight fiscalpolicy, inflation fell to just over three pct in 1986 fromalmost six pct in 1985 but remained higher than in most otherOECD countries, the report said.    Unemployment, a principal policy target, was at 2.7 pct in1986, in line with 1985's 2.8 pct and well below the OECDaverage of 8.6 pct. The report said Sweden's employmentpolicies accounted for the high levels of wage inflation.    It also said that economic growth in 1986 reliedincreasingly on private consumption because corporateinvestment in machinery and equipment had shrunk.    The total volume of industrial investments dropped by twopct in 1986, with sharp declines in spending by the wood, pulpand paper industries. This compared to a 19 pct rise in 1985when there was heavy investment in these industries.    The OECD said Sweden should now make an effort to boostcorporate investments and reduce its dependence on domesticconsumption for economic growth. It suggested there was roomfor reform in the tax system.    Sweden should continue to cut public sector spending,especially in local government, to keep in line with itstighter fiscal policy, the report said. REUTER
TAIWAN UNEMPLOYMENT FALLS IN MARCH Taiwan's unemployment rate fell to 2.03pct of the labour force in March from 2.37 pct in February and2.79 pct in March 1986, the government statistics departmentsaid.    A department official said the decline was due to risingemployment in the manufacturing sector, including textiles andfootwear.    The unemployed totalled 163,000 in March against 193,000 inFebruary and 216,000 in March 1986.    The labour force fell to 8.03 mln in March from 8.14 mln inFebruary and 7.74 mln in March 1986, it said. REUTER
FRENCH MARCH UNEMPLOYMENT RISES TO RECORD 11.1 PCT France's seasonally adjusted unemploymentrate rose to a record 11.1 pct of the workforce at end-Marchcompared with 11 pct at end-February, the National StatisticsInstitute (INSEE) said.    The total number of unemployed edged up to 2.67 mln atend-March from 2.65 mln at end-February, an INSEE spokeswomansaid. REUTER
EC UNEMPLOYMENT FALLS BELOW 17 MLN IN MARCH Unemployment in the EuropeanCommunity fell in March to 16.8 mln from 17 mln in Februarythanks to an improvement in the weather, the EC's statisticsagency Eurostat said.    It said the number of jobless fell in all 12 Communitymember states as weather conditions improved, though France,Italy and Spain saw declines of less than one pct.    There was also a particularly large drop in the number ofjobless under-25s in all states except Italy, where 19,300 moreyoung people were unemployed in March than in the month before. REUTER
PORTUGUESE UNEMPLOYMENT STEADY IN FIRST QUARTER Unemployment in Portugal held steady at9.6 pct in the first quarter of 1987 after the same rate in thelast quarter of 1986, the National Statistics Institute said.    This compared with 11.1 pct unemployment in the firstquarter of 1986.    The total number of registered unemployed in the firstquarter of this year was 437,500. REUTER
STUDY SAYS U.S. EMPLOYMENT NOT JEOPARDIZED BY BORDER PLANTS The growing shift of low-skilledmanufacturing jobs from the United States to Mexican bordercities is not a threat to American employment because it willhelp create new markets for products, according to a studyreleased today.    Richard Bolin, director of the Flagstaff Institute ofArizona, which studies international trade issues, said theUnited States needs to encourage the expansion of manufacturingin developing countries so that those nations can becomeconsumers of more U.S. goods.    His study was commissioned by the border city of McAllen,Texas, for presentation to the International Trade Commissionwhich is gathering information for a report to Congress on whatchanges may be needed in the U.S. tariff codes to prevent theloss of jobs and industry.    McAllen and other Texas border cities have benefitted froma trend among U.S. companies to build twin plants that employfactory workers on both sides of the U.S.-Mexico border.    More than 700 manufacturers are taking advantage of lenienttax codes that allow U.S. companies to bring raw goods intoMexico for assembly by low-skilled workers into products thatare completed by U.S. workers at a nearby sister plant.    Bolin said his research indicated that the shift inlow-paying jobs across the border reflected changingdemographics of the U.S. workforce.    "In the post-baby boom era, fewer workers will be availableto fill these low-skill jobs -- and these workers will bebetter educated than prior generations," Bolin told reporters inMcAllen.    "The jobs in low-tech industries that are being exported toother countries are, for the most part, jobs that we may not beable to fill in the future."    U.S. employment in less-skilled manufacturing jobs plungedby more than 900,000 between 1977 and 1982, largely due to thetransfer of jobs outside U.S. borders, he said. Americanemployment in high-tech industries increased by 634,000 duringthe same period, he said.    But high-tech industries, those in which engineers make upmore than six percent of the workforce, pay higher wages andgenerate more U.S. exports than low-tech businesses, he said. Reuter
UK MAY ADJUSTED UNEMPLOYMENT FALLS RECORD 64,300 U.K. Unemployment fell a recordprovisional, seasonally-adjusted 64,300 in May to a total 2.95mln or 10.6 pct of the workforce, the Employment Departmentsaid.    In April, seasonally-adjusted unemployment fell by anupwardly revised 21,600 to 3.02 mln or 10.9 pct, it said.    The unadjusted jobless total in May, including schoolleavers, alos fell a record 121,000 to 2.99 mln or 10.8 pctfrom April's 3.11 mln, 11.2 pct.    May was the eleventh successive decline from a peak lastsummer of 11.6 pct, the Employment Department said.    "Unemployment has fallen to under three mln for the firsttime in over three years. The May fall of 64,000 was thelargest drop since records were first kept (in 1948),"Employment Minister Norman Fowler said.    All regions have seen above average falls in long termunemployment during the past year, he added.    The last time the adjusted total of unemployed was belowthree mln was July 1984, while the unadjusted total was lastbelow this level in June 1983. REUTER
U.S. FIRST TIME JOBLESS CLAIMS ROSE IN WEEK New applications for unemploymentinsurance benefits rose to a seasonally adjusted 340,000 in theweek ended June 6 from 310,000 in the prior week, the LaborDepartment said.    The number of people actually receiving benefits underregular state programs totaled 2,359,000 in the week ended May30, the latest period for which that figure was available.    That was up from 2,255,000 the previous week.      Reuter
HIGHER GROWTH, UNEMPLOYMENT IN FRANCE, OECD SAYS France's growth rate is expected tostrengthen in the second half of this year after a poor firsthalf, but unemployment will worsen, the Organisation forEconomic Cooperation and Development (OECD) said.    In its semi-annual review of the world economy, the OECDforecast that growth in the French Gross Domestic Product (GDP)would run at about two pct in the next six months. It said therate would be in line with the 1986 trends, but significantlyhigher than in the first half of this year.    The OECD said France's economic situation has deterioratedsomewhat during the early months of 1987.     Activity has slowed, primarily reflecting an inventoryadjustment, while unemployment has risen rapidly and inflationhas reaccelerated, the OECD said. Unemployment is likely toreach 12 pct of the workforce by the end of 1988.    The report said inflation should slow and domestic demandpick up in the second half of this year. But both data arelikely to be worse than those recorded in 1986, it added.    The OECD forecast a 2.75 pct rise in consumer prices forthe second half of this year, a one pct drop from the first sixmonths. The slowdown would bring the inflation rate to 3.25 pctfor the whole year, sharply up from last year's 2.2 pct. REUTER
ECONOMIC GROWTH SEEN SLUGGISH IN BENELUX COUNTRIES Economic growth will remain sluggish inthe Netherlands and Belgium next year and unemployment mayrise, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Developmentforecast.    Belgium's GDP growth may slow down to 1.5 pct this year andnext year, bringing a rise in the number of jobless, the OECDsaid in its semi-annual survey. Belgian inflation couldstabilise at 1.5 to 2.0 pct, while the current account surpluswill probably remain large at about three pct of GDP.    While the Belgian government has made progress in trimmingits borrowing requirement, "it will probably be insufficient tocheck the self-sustaining nature of the deficit," the OECD said.    In the Netherlands real GDP growth will also slip to 1.5pct this year and one pct in 1988, with Dutch exports becomingless competitive and imports rising. "Employment is forecast todecelerate as well, reflecting more sluggish growth in theprivate sector and budgetary cuts," the report said.    Dutch consumer prices are set to fall by 0.5 pct in 1987and stay stable in 1988, partly as a result of decliningdomestic gas prices.    Luxembourg's economy, by contrast, will see slightly fastergrowth in GDP this year as a result of an upward movement inwages. But real growth in consumption will ease next year.REUTER
OECD URGES ACTION TO CUT U.S. BUDGET DEFICIT The United States should take urgentaction to cut its crippling budget deficit, including possiblereductions in non-defense spending, higher taxes and curbs ongrowth of the defense budget, the Organization for EconomicCooperation and Development said.    The OECD, in its semi-annual review of the world economy,said a failure of the Reagan Administration and Congressquickly to agree on measures to cut the deficit "could seriouslyaffect confidence, both in the United States and elsewhere."    It predicted that the federal deficit in fiscal 1987,running until September 30 this year, would substantiallyovershoot both the Balanced Budget Act's target of 144 billiondlrs and official U.S. Estimates in February of 175 billion.    "The OECD projection, which is based on assumptions ofslower growth, higher interest rates and actual data for thefirst half of the financial year, is for a deficit of about 190billion dollars," it said.    While this would be 30 billion lower than last year'sdeficit, much of the improvement would be due to corporate taxincreases being introduced before income tax cuts take effect.    The U.S. Economic growth rate is expected to edge up to2.75 pct next year from 2.5 pct this year and last.    In contrast to the last two years, more competitive exportsboosted by the fall in the dollar should help GNP growth.    Unemployment should continue to fall slowly as the servicesector continues to create jobs. But inflation appears to beheading higher, partly due to the lower dollar, with consumerprices forecast to rise four pct this year and 4.5 pct nextyear after just 2.1 pct in 1986.    "Monetary and fiscal policy appear to be the key factorsbehind the avoidance of recession," the report said.    The current account balance of payments deficit is expectedto be still around a high 125 billion dlrs next year, afterhitting a projected record 147.25 billion this year, it said.    In Canada economic growth is expected to pick up slightlyto around 2.75 pct in 1988 from 2.5 pct this year, but willstill be below levels seen in recent years. Inflation isexpected to slow to 3.5 pct next year from 3.75 pct this year,unemployment should edge down to nine pct in 1988 from 9.25 pctthis year.    Canada's current account deficit is projected to shrink toaround four billion U.S. Dlrs this year and to remain at aboutthat level in 1988. Reuter
Japan May unemployment record 3.2 pct (3.0 pct i Japan's seasonally adjusted unemploymentrate rose to a record 3.2 pct in May, the worst level since thegovernment started compiling unemployment statistics in 1953,the government's Management and Coodination Agency said.    The May rate surpassed the previous record of 3.0 pctmarked set in January and April this year. It was also upsharply from 2.7 pct a year earlier.    Unadjusted May unemployment totalled 1.91 mln people, upfrom 1.90 mln in April and 1.62 mln a year earlier.    An agency official blamed industrial restructuring and thestrong yen for the rise in unemployment.    The seasonally adjusted male unemployment rate in May roseto a record 3.2 pct, surpassing the previous record 3.0 pct setin July 1986. This compares with 2.9 pct in April and 2.7 pct ayear earlie. Unadjusted male unemployment totalled 1.12 mln, up180,000 from a year earlier.    The female unemployment rate in May was unchanged fromApril at a record 3.1 pct. A year ago, the rate was 2.8 pct.Unadjusted female unemployment rose 100,000 to 790,000.    The yen's appreciation continued to affect employment inmanufacturing industries and the total employed in May fell210,000 or 1.5 pct from a year earlier to 14.10 mln. REUTER
U S WEST <USW> 3RD QTR NET Shr 1.46 dlrs vs 1.41 dlrs    Net 277.5 mln vs 268.3 mln dlrs    Revs 2.13 billion vs 2.14 billion    Nine Mths    Shr 3.95 dlrs vs 3.78 dlrs    Net 750.5 mln vs 718.4 mln    Revs 6.28 billion vs 6.22 billion Reuter
HIGHER SPENDING EXPECTED IN MALAYSIA'S 1988 BUDGET Malaysia's recovery from the worstrecession in 20 years should receive a boost on Friday when thegovernment announces a reflationary budget for calendar 1988after seven years of austerity, economists said.    "Our country is walking on one leg now," said Ismail Salleh,an economist with the Institute of Strategic and InternationalStudies. "It has to depend on public sector investment forfaster growth if the private sector is not moving."    Gross domestic product grew one pct in 1986 after shrinkingone pct in 1985. The fiscal year ends December 31.    The government has said it expects 1987 growth to be undertwo pct but some analysts believe it will be nearer three pctbecause prices for commodity exports have risen sharply.Malaysia is a leading exporter of rubber, palm oil, tin andsemiconductors and a major producer of cocoa, timber and oil.    The government slashed development spending to 9.8 billionringgit this year from 14.5 billion in 1986.    Economists said unemployment is expected to exceed 10 pctin 1988 against about 9.5 pct this year.    Local investment also has stagnated, with businessmenblaming inconsistent economic policies and lack of incentives.    One businessman said too many politicians give theimpression that Malaysia was unstable.    "If we can take care of investment confidence, the potentialto recover strongly is great," a banker said.    Malaysia's 1987 current account is expected to be in theblack with the Central Bank projecting a 500 mln ringgitsurplus compared with last year's 1.2 billion ringgit deficit.    The government has said its fiscal policies will balancethe budget by 1989. The deficit in 1986 was 952 mln ringgit.    The government will also repay some of its external debt,which stood at 51 billion ringgit at the end of 1986.    Political leaders have said the budget will not hurtordinary people as taxes on basic food and other essentialgoods are unlikely to change.    Businessmen said they hope the government also will cut thecorporate tax, now between 45 and 48 pct, to enable Malaysia tocompete for investors with neighbouring states. REUTER
