HEALTH EXPERTS URGE ERADICATION OF RINDERPEST World animal health experts called for acampaign to eradicate the lethal cattle disease Rinderpest inBangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal and Pakistan, a statement froma Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) meeting here said.    Some 230 mln dlrs is needed over two years to vaccinate theentire susceptible cattle population in Bangladesh and Pakistanand high-risk areas of the other three countries. In India some240 mln cattle are estimated to be at risk from the disease.    The experts recommended the campaign be funded mostly bythe governments of the five nations, with help from the FAO.Similar campaigns are needed in Egypt, Yemen, Iraq and Iran. Reuter
CUBAN CATTLE THREATENED BY DROUGHT Over 750,000 head of cattle are sufferingthe effects of a severe shortage of feed as a result of aprolonged drought in the normally rich sugar and cattleproducing province of Camaguey, the newspaper Granma reported.    The province produces 23 pct of Cuba's beef and is theisland's number two province in milk production. Granma said20,000 head of cattle are now in imminent danger.    The newspaper said a "cattle emergency" had been decreed andthe cattle are being rounded up.    Some 110,000 head have been transferred to the sugar caneconditioning centers where newly harvested cane is cleanedbefore being sent to the mills. The cattle are being fed theresidue left after cleaning the cane stalks. 32,000 head havebeen sent to nearby provinces of Las Tunas and Ciego de Avila.    Despite Cuba's ambitous cattle development plans, beefrationing has been in effect over the past 25 years. In Havana,each Cuban receives approximately 3/4 lb of rationed beef every18 days.    In a major area hit by drought, San Miguel, practically norain has fallen in the past 14 months. Grazing lands areparched and the region was unable to produce 117,000 tonnes ofsilage projected in its annual plan.    Granma said rainfall over the past year has been less than50 pct of normal precipitation. Reuter
LMFE TO CONCENTRATE ON CASH SETTLED CONTRACTS The London Meat Futures Exchange, LMFE,will cease trading in its deliverable pigmeat contract fromApril 3, the LMFE said.    The move will enable the exchange to concentrate on thecash settled contracts introduced last year.    "This allows the exchange and its members to concentrate ourmarketing on the pig and live cattle contracts," LMFE officialPeter Freeman said. "These two have already shown theireffectiveness for hedging, and the trade in both contracts isincreasing," he added.    "Using the futures market allows better planning and forwardprice fixing that our industry needs," chairman Pat Elmer said.    Some 131 pig contracts were settled against the Meat andLivestock Commission's Average All Pigs Price in February,which represents hedging for over 13,000 pigs, more than twicethe number cash-settled in January, the LMFE said.    Cash settlement on the new cattle and pig contracts wasintroduced last June in the expectation that the appeal of thefutures market to farmers, abattoirs and users of meat wouldincrease because of the absence of a delivery requirement. Reuter
LIVE CATTLE RALLY AS LOCKOUT AT MEAT PLANT ENDS Live cattle futures posted a robustrally today after a major beef packing company said it wouldend a lockout at its slaughtering plant in Dakota City, Neb.    April delivery cattle on the Chicago Mercantile Exchangeclosed at 64.45 cents a pound, up 0.83 cent, as the marketexpected demand for live animals to increase as the plantrestarts operations.    Iowa Beef Processors, a division of Occidental Petroleum,said it planned to reopen the plant, one of the largest in thenation, on March 16. The plant has been closed since Dec. 14,the day after a contract between IBP and Local 222 of theUnited Food and Commercial Workers Union expired.    The plant employs 2,800 workers and can slaughter severalthousand animals a day, a company spokesman said.    The company said it locked out union workers because theythreatened to disrupt operations. It was unclear whether unionmeatpackers would return to work. They rejected the company'slatest contract offer March 5.    Traders said cattle prices advanced at midsession as rumorscirculated that the lockout was ending, and gains were furtherfueled by a noticeable increase in demand for live animals oncash markets in Nebraska and the Texas Panhandle.    The rally in cattle also boosted values of live hogs andfrozen pork bellies, which also were supported by indicationsthat producers were expanding their hog herds at a slower ratethan previously expected.    Petroleum futures posted a modest rally on the New YorkMercantile Exchange.    But a report that the Soviet Union planned to reduce theprice of its crude oil exports may pressure the market Friday,said Nauman Barakat, petroleum analyst in New York with SmithBarney, Harris Upham and Co.    Buying by companies that deal in petroleum helped pricesrecover from early weakness, traders said.    Gold futures rallied, partly in response to strength in thesilver market, on the Commodity Exchange in New York. Silverprices rallied after a U.S. brokerage house recommended itscustomers buy the metal, traders said.    Coffee futures drifted lower in response to a report thatColombia lowered the price of its exports, traders said.    Sugar prices closed slightly higher on the Coffee, Sugarand Cocoa Exchange despite a large export sale by the EuropeanCommission on Wednesday.    Soybeans were higher, wheat lower and corn mixed on theChicago Board of Trade.    Soybeans were boosted by expectations that the AgricultureDepartment would report a healthy signup for the ConservationReserve Program, which pays farmers to leave highly erodibleland idle instead of planting a crop, traders said.    Concern that a strike by Brazilian seamen might interruptexports of soybeans from Brazil, where the harvest is justbeginning, also underpinned prices, they said.    Wheat prices were pressured by selling in response totrends on price charts, they said. Reuter
RENEWED BULL SPREADING LIKELY ON CATTLE REPORT Livestock analysts expect renewed bullspreading in live cattle futures following yesterday's USDA7-state cattle on feed report.    The USDA reported high placements in February, which mayweigh on back months of cattle futures. Meanwhile, continuedstrong marketings during the month will support the Aprilcontract.    Contracts for June delivery forward could open 25 to 50cents lower while April will likely open about steady, analystssaid.    Cheap corn is still the main incentive for putting cattleon feed, according to Smith Barney livestock analyst TomO'Hare. "They have no place to send the grain," he said.    Strong daily fundamentals may add to nearby support whilethe current discount of deferred months to the cash market mayoffset much of the effect of the report, analysts said.    "The cash market is strong and may overshadow the report,"said Robin Fuller, analyst for Agri Analysis. She added thateven though placements came in above the average trade guess,many traders had expected high placements.    Placements are not that negative, especially since thetechnical correction in June and August live cattle futuressince last week, GH Miller analyst Jerry Gidel said.    He said the current marketing posture will provide addedsupport to the nearby month. Feedlot marketings have beenrunning at a heavier than expected pace.    Chuck Levitt, analyst for Shearson Lehman said that withthe number of cattle on feed down five pct at the beginning ofthe year, a three pct decline in marketings was expected. Butthe report for January showed marketings at 101 pct of a yearago and in February marketings were at 100 pct, Levitt noted.    "So far we haven't seen any decline in marketings. They(feedlot operators) are marketing more cattle than they hadintended for the first quarter, which is a bullishdevelopment," Levitt said.    Gidel also noted that marketings for the early part ofMarch are running ahead of a year ago. Feedlots are not fallingbehind and are holding that 100 pct marketing pace. Reuter
CATTLE BEING PLACED ON FEED LIGHTER THAN NORMAL Most of the cattle now being placed onU.S. feedlots weigh less than normal and likely will remain onfeed longer, spreading out marketings and supporting cattleprices through the summer because of reduced beef supply.    The prospect of so many cattle remaining on feed for alonger time blunted the market impact of the high placementsreported in the USDA's latest cattle on feed report, livestockanalysts said.    After the USDA released its report of cattle on feed inseven states as of March 1, cattle futures on the ChicagoMercantile Exchange yesterday rose sharply. The trade hadexpected deferred contracts to decline on the USDA report of a15 pct rise in cattle placements in February from a year ago.    Although the heavy placements were expected, analysts notedreports that many cattle put on feed were relativelylightweight and said feedlot operators would feed the lightercattle into the autumn, rather than market them during thesummer as would be the case with the heavier cattle normallyplaced on feed.    Although reports of actual cattle weights are difficult toobtain, industry sources in the West and Southwest acknowledgethat lighter cattle are being put on feedlots in their areas.    The increase in lighter-weight cattle entering feedlots,helps explain the jump in feedlot placements last month fromFebruary, 1986.    University of Missouri Agricultural Economist Glenn Grimessaid, "The probabilities are high that in order to place thatmany cattle on feed they (feedlot operators) had to go tolighter-weight cattle.    The only statistics available are from some terminalmarkets which represent only a small percentage of the totalcattle marketed. But at those markets, steers averaged 708 lbsin February compared with 718 lbs last year, Grimes said.    Even if marketing of the lighter cattle is not delayed,Grimes said, beef supply likely will be reduced.    If the average weight is down, and there is no priceweakness to delay marketings, the cattle would be marketed atlighter weights, which could reduce the beef supply as much asthree pct.    Bruce Ginn, cattle analyst for The Helming Group (formerlyLBAS), said the lighter cattle are being placed on feed mainlybecause of two factors: low grain prices and higher live cattleprices.    Many farmers like to feed lighter weight cattle and grainsupplies are large, he noted. Also, the higher live cattleprices have been encouraging early movement of cattle fromwheat pasture onto feedlots, Ginn said.    Other analysts also noted that cattle are coming off wheatpasture sooner than normal because of poor pasture conditions.    Gary Chapmann, a cash livestock trader for Chapmann andGraham in Sioux City, Iowa said he believed the general trendis to lighter weight placements but pasture conditions in hisarea benefited from a dry, mild winter.    To the south, however, he said the weather was wetter andsome cattle are coming off pasture weighing 75 to 100 lbs lessthan normal after having gained only 75 lbs all winter. Reuter
MEXICAN CATTLE IMPORTS TO BE BRANDED - USDA All steers imported into the UnitedStates from Mexico must now be branded with the letter M on theright jaw, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.    In its World Production and Trade Report, the departmentsaid the branding is necessary to improve surveillance forbovine tuberculosis because it provides a permanent way toidentify Mexican steers.    The requirement is not expected to affect the number ofMexican steers imported into the United States and the brandwill be applied before the animals arrive at U.S. ports ofentry.    Last November, the Mexican Government authorized an exportquota of nearly 1.1 mln head of live cattle for the 1986/87season (Aug-July), most of which goes to the United States. Reuter
USDA REPORTS SEEN NEGATIVE TO LIVESTOCK FUTURES Commission house livestock analystsagreed with Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders incalling today's USDA 13-state quarterly cattle on feed reportand cold storage report for pork bellies negative.    June live cattle futures are called 0.20 to 0.50 cent loweron Monday and back months of cattle are expected 0.50 to 1.00cent lower. Pork bellies are expected 0.50 to 1.00 cent or morelower, the analysts said.    Disappointment was voiced over the placement and total onfeed figures in the cattle report. Both the quarterly sectionand monthly 7-state part showed the amount placed on feed andon feed numbers at the high end of expectations.    The other disappearance figure of only three pct above ayear ago in the 7-state section was also vieved as negative.Most of the early guesses predicted a much larger number fordeath loss following the two winter snow storms that struck thewest in late March, they said.    However, weight groupings were friendly to the nearbyfutures and should prompt some bull spreading on the decline,they said.    William Arndt from Dean Witter noted that the 900 to 1,100lb steers and 700 to 900 lb heifers were at 94 pct of a yearago and should lend some support to June futures. However, 700to 900 lb steers at 119 pct will weigh on August, he said.    "The big reduction in cattle weighing over 900 lbs shouldbe friendly to the market for at least the next 30 to 60 days,"AGE Clearing analyst Jerry Abbenhaus said.    Movement of bellies into frozen storage was at the high endof expectations and should weigh on futures tomorrow,especially as futures prices ended weak today, they said.    Other parts of the cold storage report were also viewed asnegative to livestock and meat futures.    "We have a lot of poultry in storage. Even though we havesmaller pork supplies, the decline is not enough to offset theincreases in poultry," Shearson Lehman analyst Chuck Levittsaid. Also, there is more beef in storage than last year andthis was achieved on smaller production. Reuter
WEST VIRGINIA FREE OF TWO MAJOR CATTLE DISEASES West Virginia has been declared freeof tuberculosis and brucellosis from its cattle population, theU.S. Agriculture Department said.    It said a state is recognized as tuberculosis-free if nocase of the disease is diagnosed for at least five years and ifthe state complies with the uniform methods and rules of thestate-federal cooperative eradication program.    To achieve brucellosis-free status, a state's cattlepopulation must remain uninfected for the previous 12 months.    There are 33 states, plus the U.S. Virgin Islands,classified as free of bovine tuberculosis and 24 states, plusPuerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, which have eradicatedbrucellosis. Only 20 states and the U.S. Virgin islands haveeradicated both diseases, it noted. Reuter
