SOUTH KOREA'S LEADING INDICATORS FALL IN DECEMBER South Korea's index of leading indicatorsfell 0.1 pct to 164.1 (base 1980) in December after a 0.1 pctrise in November, representing a 16.1 pct year-on-year gainfrom December 1985, Economic Planning Board provisional figuresshow.    The index is based on 10 indicators which include exportvalues, letters of credit received, warehouse stocks, M-1 andM-3 money supply figures and the composite stock exchangeindex. REUTER
U.S. LEADING INDICATORS FELL 1.0 PCT IN JAN AFTER REVISED 2.3 PCT  The U.S. index of leading indicatorsfell a seasonally adjusted 1.0 pct in January after a revised2.3 pct December gain, the Commerce Department said.    The department previously said the index rose 2.1 pct inDecember.    The decline in January was the biggest for any month sinceJuly, 1984, when the index fell 1.7 pct.    The January decrease left the index at 183.8 over its 1967base of 100, and was led by a fall in contracts and orders forplant and equipment.    A total of six of 10 indicators available for Januarycontributed to the decline.    Besides contracts and orders for plant and equipment, theywere building permits, manufacturers' new orders for consumergoods, a change in sensitive materials prices, slowerdeliveries from vendors and higher average weekly claims forstate unemployment insurance.    Four of 10 indicators were positive, including stockprices, new business formation, average work week and moneysupply.    The main factor for the December upward revision was newbusiness formation.    There was no revision in the 0.9 pct increase in theleading indicators index for November.    The index of coincident indicators, which measures thecurrent economy, fell 0.1 pct in January after increases of 0.7pct in December and 0.2 pct in November.    The index of lagging indicators, which measures pasteconomic activity, rose 0.5 pct in January after a decrease of0.5 pct in December and an increase of 0.2 pct in November. Reuter
U.S. COMMERCE SECRETARY SAYS EXPORT RISE NEEDED Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrigesaid after the release of a sharply lower January leadingindicator index that a pickup in exports is needed.    "The best tonic for the economy now would be a pickup in netexports," he said in a statement after the department reportedthe index fell 1.0 pct in January from December, the sharpestdrop since a 1.7 pct fall in July, 1984.    The main reasons for the January decline after a 2.3 pctDecember rise were declines in building permits, new orders forplant and equipment and for consumer and industrial goods. Reuter
AUSTRALIA LEADING INDEX CONTINUES RISE IN DECEMBER Westpac Banking Corp and theMelbourne University Institute of Applied Economic and SocialResearch said their leading index of Australian economicactivity rose for the ninth successive month in December.    The index rose to 134.1 (base 1980) from 129.8 in Novemberand 122.8 a year earlier, the Westpac-Institute report said.    Annualised, it rose 13 pct in December against seven pct inNovember and one pct a year earlier, based on the ratio of thelatest index to the average over the previous 12 months.    The report said the index is now 12 points or 9.8 pct aboveits trough in March 1986.    Westpac's chief economist Bob Graham said the consistentupward trend in the leading index emphasised the need for atough mini-budget in May. "An untoward increase in consumptionspending before the balance of payments improves would havedisastrous consequences," he said.    The coincident index also rose an annualised three pct inDecember against zero movement in November and a seven pct risea year earlier, Westpac and the Institute said.    They said this index continued to show the currentrecession is shallow and is more likely to involve a slowing inreal growth than an absolute fall in economic activity. REUTER
CANADA LEADING INDICATOR UP 0.4 PCT IN DECEMBER, AFTER 0.4 PCT NOVEMBER GAIN -  Continental HealthAffiliates Inc said that it has acquired <Marketech Inc>, an 80pct partner in <Diatronics Nutrition Services>.    Continental said Diantronics Nutrition Services is a jointventure with physicians providing patient-ready home infusiontherapy products and services to outpatients of five northernNew Jersery hospitals representing over 1,900 inpatient beds.    Continental said the terms of the deal were not disclosed. Reuter
CANADA DECEMBER LEADING INDICATOR UP 0.4 PCT Canada's leading composite indicatoradvanced 0.4 pct in December after gaining 0.4 pct in the twoprevious months, Statistics Canada said.    The unfiltered index rose 0.8 pct in the month, aturnaround from the 0.3 pct decline in November, the federalagency said.    The manufacturing groups continued to post advances whilegoods production rose 1.6 pct, the third increase in the lastfour months. The advances, however, were offset by adeceleration in household demand. Reuter
U.K. LONGER CYCLICAL INDICATOR RISES IN FEBRUARY The U.K. Longer leading cyclicalindicator rose in February by 5.8 pct after January's 1.9 pctrise, figures from the Central Statistical Office show.    The indicator, base 1980, which shows trends in the economy12 months ahead, was put at 108.7 in February compared with102.7 in January and 99.5 in February 1986.    The shorter leading indicator, signalling trends six monthsahead, was put at 97.1 for January, the latest month for whichdata were available, after December's 96.5. This compared with98.4 in January 1986.    The coincident indicator, designed to signal currentturning points in the economy, was put at 91.2 in January, downfrom 91.9 in December and 91.6 in january 1986.    The lagging index, which the CSO says shows a turning pointin the economy about a year after it happens, was at 92.4 inJanuary, down from 92.5 in December and 93.0 a year earlier.    The Office said leading indicators still do not show aconsistent picture of the likely future developments of thebusiness cycle in Britain.    It said the strong rise in the longer leading index betweenDecember and February was due mainly to rises in share prices. REUTER
U.S. LEADING INDICATORS ROSE 0.7 PCT IN FEB AFTER REVISED 0.5 PCT  Japan's Minister of International Tradeand Industry, Hajime Tamura, will meet representatives from 151of the nation's largest companies next week and appeal to themto do their best to increase imports, ministry officials said.    The meeting was unveiled as part of a plan to boost importsand help head off protectionist legislation in the U.S.    Senior officials from the Ministry of International Tradeand Industry told reporters that such personal appeals appearedto have paid off in the past, as Japanese imports ofmanufactured goods have climbed.    Leading domestic semiconductor makers will boost importsand cut production of key memory microchips next month in anattempt to help ward off U.S. Trade sanctions, companyspokesmen said.    The officials also said they expect the government's newtrade insurance law to boost imports and encourage Japanesecompanies to set up production facilities overseas.    Under the new law, the government will insure Japanesecompanies who pre-pay for imports against loss arising fromeverything from war to bankruptcy of the foreign firm they aredealing with. MITI estimated that it would help solve Japan'strade problem to the tune of about $10 billion dlrs a year. REUTER
U.S. LEADING INDEX ROSE 0.7 PCT IN FEBRUARY The U.S. index of leading indicatorsrose a seasonally adjusted 0.7 pct in February after a revised0.5 pct January fall, the Commerce Department said.    The department previously said the index fell 1.0 pct inJanuary.    The February increase left the index at 187.1 over its 1967base of 100, and was led by a rise in stock prices.    A total of four of nine indicators available for Februarycontributed to the increase in the index.    Besides stock prices, they were manufacturers' new ordersfor consumer goods and materials, average work week andbuilding permits.    Five of nine indicators were negative. They were change insensitive materials prices, money supply, vendor performance,average weekly initial claims for state unemployment insurance,and contracts and orders for plant and equipment.    The main factor in the January revision was contracts andorders for plant and equipment, the department said.    December also was revised to a 2.4 pct rise from an earlier2.3 pct rise due to a change in outstanding credit.    The index of coincident indicators, which measures thecurrent economy, rose 0.9 pct in February after a decline of1.3 pct in January and a rise of 0.9 pct in December.    The index of lagging indicators, which measures pasteconomic activity, decreased 0.3 pct in February afterincreasing 1.7 pct in January and falling by 0.5 pct inDecember.    The department said it has suspended net business formationfrom the leading indicators index because it has deterioratedas a measure of change in the business population. Reuter
U.S. COMMERCE SECRETARY SEES HIGHER GNP GROWTH Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrigesaid a 0.7 pct rise in February's index of leading indicatorspointed to stronger economic growth in the first half of 1987.    In a statement commenting on the rise last month after a0.5 pct January decline, Baldrige noted the leading index wasrising at an 8.0 pct annual rate in the six months to the endof February.    "Based on past relationships, that gain is consistent withstepped up growth in real GNP during the first half of 1987,"Baldrige said. Reuter
WHITE HOUSE WELCOMES RISE IN INDICATORS The White House welcomed lastmonth's 0.7 pct increase in the Index of Leading EconomicIndicators, the government's key barometer of future economicgrowth.    The increase reversed a decline in January of 0.5 pct.    Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the newfigures signalling more economic growth in coming months showedthat the index was "back on track" after its downturn at thefirst of the year. REUTER
CANADA JANUARY LEADING INDICATOR UP 0.4 PCT Canada's leading composite indicatorrose 0.4 pct in January with eight of the 10 major componentsposting gains, the most widespread monthly advance in the pastyear, Statistics Canada said.    The index also gained 0.4 pct in the preceeding month. Theunfiltered index, however, fell 0.1 pct in January after rising1.0 pct in December.    The gain was led by the residential construction indexwhile the manufacturing groups continued to improve and thestock market index turned up, the federal agency reported. Reuter
SOUTH KOREA'S LEADING INDICATORS RISE IN FEBRUARY South Korea's index of leading indicatorsrose 1.9 pct to 172.9 (base 1980) in February after a 0.8 pctrise in January, to stand 17.2 pct higher than in Feburary1986, provisional Economic Planning Board figures show.    The index is based on 10 indicators which include exportvalues, letters of credit received, warehouse stocks, M-1 andM-3 money supply figures and the composite stock exchangeindex. REUTER
U.S. INDEX SAID CONSISTENT WITH GROWTH FORECAST Robert Ortner, under secretary ofcommerce, said last month's 0.4 pct rise in the Index ofLeading Indicators was consistent with growth of 3.0 pct thisyear.    He said in a statement that stock prices accounted for alarge share of the index's growth in the last six months.    "Excluding stock prices, the rate of increase was still ahealthy 6.2 pct and is consistent with 3.0 pct or more overalleconomic growth during 1987," he said. Reuter
U.S. MARCH LEADING INDEX SIGNALS MODEST GROWTH A 0.4 pct rise in the March U.S. indexof leading indicators points to continued moderate U.S. realeconomic growth, economists said.    "The report is consistent with a modestly growing economy,"said Steve Slifer of Lehman Government Securities Inc. "Theeconomy is not robust, but we're not heading into a recessioneither."    "The report suggests more of the same: continued moderategrowth," said Ward McCarthy of Merrill Lynch Government and CoInc. "The gain was mostly in stock prices. There was no changein the fundamental movement of the economy."    The Commerce Department said that higher stock prices ledthe March gain. Unemployment claims, vendor performance,contracts and orders for plant and equipment, manufacturers'orders, and building permits also were positive.    The average workweek, raw materials prices, and moneysupply detracted from the index.    Economists noted that the index signals the direction butnot the magnitude of changes in gross national product.    "You can't derive profound conclusions on the economy fromthe report," McCarthy said. "The link between leadingindicators and the economy is not strong." Reuter
