CHINESE PORK OUTPUT SEEN LOWER -- USDA High feed prices will cause theChinese to reduce hog herd growth and pork production thisyear, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.    In its World Production and Trade Report, the departmentsaid hog numbers at the start of 1987 were estimated at 331.6mln head, up slightly from 1986, and 10 mln head above earlierprojections for 1987.    Pork production in 1986 was up 4.2 pct to 17.25 mln tonnes,slightly below earlier estimates, it said.    For 1987, production is projected to fall to 17.05 mlntonnes.    Feed prices at the end of January were reported 35 to 40pct above year-ago levels, the department said. Reuter
HEALTH EXPERTS URGE ERADICATION OF RINDERPEST World animal health experts called for acampaign to eradicate the lethal cattle disease Rinderpest inBangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal and Pakistan, a statement froma Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) meeting here said.    Some 230 mln dlrs is needed over two years to vaccinate theentire susceptible cattle population in Bangladesh and Pakistanand high-risk areas of the other three countries. In India some240 mln cattle are estimated to be at risk from the disease.    The experts recommended the campaign be funded mostly bythe governments of the five nations, with help from the FAO.Similar campaigns are needed in Egypt, Yemen, Iraq and Iran. Reuter
AMERICAN PORK CONGRESS KICKS OFF TOMORROW The American Pork Congress kicks offtomorrow, March 3, in Indianapolis with 160 of the nations porkproducers from 44 member states determining industry positionson a number of issues, according to the National Pork ProducersCouncil, NPPC.    Delegates to the three day Congress will be considering 26resolutions concerning various issues, including the futuredirection of farm policy and the tax law as it applies to theagriculture sector. The delegates will also debate whether toendorse concepts of a national PRV (pseudorabies virus) controland eradication program, the NPPC said.    A large trade show, in conjunction with the congress, willfeature the latest in technology in all areas of the industry,the NPPC added. Reuter
USDA PROPOSES NAME CHANGES IN BEEF GRADE The U.S. Agriculture Departmentproposes to rename the "USDA Good" grade of beef to "USDA Select."    The department said the proposed change is in response to apetition from Public Voice for Food and Health Policy and wouldpresent a more positive image of this grade of beef and helpcalorie-conscious consumers select leaner cuts of meat.    Under current rules, the "good" grade of meat has lessmarbling and fat than the "prime" or "choice" grades, it said.    Standards for all of the grades would remain unchangedunder the proposal. Reuter
MANDATORY PRODUCTION CONTROLS DEBATED AT APC Delegates to the American Pork Congresswill decide whether or not they want mandatory productioncontrols when they vote on the official pork producer policywednesday, the National Pork Producers Council said.    The American Pork Congress, APC, delegates, listened toboth sides of the question when former Iowa Congressman BerkleyBedell and Bill Lesher, USDA Assistant Secretary for Economicsfor the years 1981 to 1985 debated at the convention inIndianapolis. Reuter
PORK CHECKOFF REFUNDS LESS THAN EXPECTED The National Pork Board announced at theAmerican Pork Congress convention in Indianapolis that refundsunder the legislative checkoff program are running less thanexpected.    The Board oversees collection and distribution of fundsfrom the checkoff program that was mandated by the 1985 farmbill. Virgil Rosendale, a pork producer from Illinois andchairman of the National Pork Board, said over 2.2 mln dlrs wascollected in January and refunds are running almost nine pct,considerably less than expected.    "We believe that this indicates good producer support forthe new checkoff. We're getting good compliance from markets,from packers and from dealers," Rosendale said. Reuter
EC SOURCES DETAIL NEW FARM SOCIAL PACKAGE The 350 mln Ecu three-year package ofsocial and structural measures agreed early today by EuropeanCommunity farm ministers features a plan to compensate farmersfor reducing output of certain surplus products, EC Commissionsources said.    The ministers agreed that under this "extensification"scheme, farmers would qualify for compensation if they cutoutput of specific products by at least 20 pct.    The plan would initially apply to cereals, beef, veal andwine, they added.    Cereals farmers would have to achieve their output cuts byreducing acreage, while cattle farmers would reduce theirnumber of head and vinegrowers would cut yield. In each case,farmers would have to undertake not to step up their capacityfor output of other products which are in surplus in the EC.    The sources said payment levels have not yet been fixed butwill be designed to compensate farmers for loss of profit onthe production they forego.    The sources said the package also contains provisions forpayments to farmers who embark on a program aimed at protectingor improving the environment.    It would also mean compensatory allowances in less favouredfarming areas would be extended to crops. At present suchallowances are available only for livestock.    The package would provide 20 mln Ecus for research intoalternative farming techniques, the sources added.    At a news conference EC Farm Commissioner Frans Andriessensaid the Commission is also working on proposals to enable theEC and member states to provide direct income supports forrelatively poor farmers.    Andriessen did not give full details, but said member stateaid would be subject to "strict criteria to avoid distortion ofcompetition."    EC payments would aim to help farmers to survive adifficult period while the EC tackles the problems of surplusproduction.    The Commission withdrew from the package agreed last nightproposals to pay "early retirement" pensions to farmers aged 55or over who gave up production. Those who took their landcompletely out of farm production, rather than passing it on totheir heirs, would have received more generous payments.    Andriessen said the Commission plans to present revisedproposals along these lines in an effort to get a schemeagreed. Reuter
MORE PRESSURE URGED FOR ASIA TO TAKE U.S. BEEF Congressmen from beef producingstates and representatives of the U.S. livestock industry urged the Reagan administration to press Japan and South Koreato open up their markets to imports of beef.    Testifying at a House subcommittee hearing on livestockissues, Rep. Hal Daub (R-Nebr.), said the administration shouldpush hard for greater beef imports by Japan and South Korea.Daub was joined by several other lawmakers.    U.S. assistant trade representative Suzanne Earley, replied"we're not going to let Japan off the hook, or Korea." Shenoted trade representative Clayton Yeutter met with a seniorKorean official last week on the beef issue, and that Yeutterand Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng will visit Tokyo inApril for discussions on farm trade issues.    Japan maintains a quota on beef imports, set at 58,400tonnes high quality beef in fiscal 1987. South Korea has bannedbeef imports but there are indications Seoul may bow to U.S.pressure and allow some imports soon, industry officials said.    In testimony today, Tom Cook, director of industry affairsfor the National Cattlemens Association said "the Congress,administration and the industry must take a strong, tough andunited stand to impress the Japanese that we mean business andthat we expect them to open their markets." Reuter
ANTIBIOTICS IN FEED AID DEADLY BACTERIA: STUDY A study of salmonella poisoning hasuncovered new evidence that the common practice of feedingantibiotics to cattle is helping to create deadly bacteria thatcan infect humans and resist medicines.    Researchers at the federal Centers for Disease Controltracked the spread of an unusual strain of salmonella that isresistant to the drug chloramphenicol and were able to link theresulting food poisoning to farms that used the drug to promotethe growth of cattle.    Cattlemen often give their animals a constant supply ofantibiotics in feed to help them grow faster. But critics havebeen warning for years that the constant exposure to the drugsis helping bacteria learn to resist the drugs.    Industry officials have disputed this, saying the diseasesthat develop a resistance in cattle probably do not affecthumans.    But the new study, reported in Thursday's New EnglandJournal of Medicine, shows the diseases can spread to humans.    The research team, led by Dr. John Spika, said the numberof people who have developed the chloramphenicol-resistantinfection in Los Angeles County alone jumped from 69 in 1984 to298 the following year. Two of those victims died and half thevictims in their study of 45 patients had to be hospitalizedfor their illness.    They also discovered that cooking the meat didn't alwaysprevent the disease. Only 15 pct of the victims reported eatingraw, infected hamburger. Thus, the researchers concluded, "themajority of cases appear to have been caused by eatinghamburger that was at least partially cooked."    The researchers said the results show that "food animals area major source of antimicrobial-resistant salmonella infectionsin humans, and that these infections are associated with(antibiotic) use on farms." Reuter
NPPC DELEGATES APPROVE DISEASE AND DRUG PROGRAMS Delegates from the National PorkProducers Council, NPPC, yesterday approved programs forcontrol and eradication of pseudorabies and establishment of anational safe drug use program.    The delegate body, attending the American Pork Congress inIndianapolis, approved a pseudorabies control and eradicationprogram at the state level after a recommendation from NPPC'sPRV (pseudorabies virus) oversight committee.    The PRV committee received results of a three year, fivestate pilot project which had a 97.5 pct success rate ineradication of the disease within 116 hog herds. The projectwas jointly funded by the USDA and NPPC.    "Primarily it (the program) allows individual states todeal with their own problems according to a timetable thatsuits them best," Mike Wehler, member of the NPPC's PRVoversight committee said.    In regards to safe drug use, the delegates approved a planasking that NPPC be active in establishing a national safe druguse program.    The program would establish better relationships betweenproducers and veterinarians and eventually lead to a qualityassurance program in pork production, according to the plan.    "This program basically communicates to the FDA that we areconcerned about safe drug use and will do our part to use drugssafely, if FDA will allow the same policy to continue ineffect," Wehler said. Reuter
CUBAN CATTLE THREATENED BY DROUGHT Over 750,000 head of cattle are sufferingthe effects of a severe shortage of feed as a result of aprolonged drought in the normally rich sugar and cattleproducing province of Camaguey, the newspaper Granma reported.    The province produces 23 pct of Cuba's beef and is theisland's number two province in milk production. Granma said20,000 head of cattle are now in imminent danger.    The newspaper said a "cattle emergency" had been decreed andthe cattle are being rounded up.    Some 110,000 head have been transferred to the sugar caneconditioning centers where newly harvested cane is cleanedbefore being sent to the mills. The cattle are being fed theresidue left after cleaning the cane stalks. 32,000 head havebeen sent to nearby provinces of Las Tunas and Ciego de Avila.    Despite Cuba's ambitous cattle development plans, beefrationing has been in effect over the past 25 years. In Havana,each Cuban receives approximately 3/4 lb of rationed beef every18 days.    In a major area hit by drought, San Miguel, practically norain has fallen in the past 14 months. Grazing lands areparched and the region was unable to produce 117,000 tonnes ofsilage projected in its annual plan.    Granma said rainfall over the past year has been less than50 pct of normal precipitation. Reuter
PORK DELEGATES VOTE ON FARM BILL, FARM CREDIT Delegates from the National PorkProducers Council, NPPC, attending the American Pork Congressin Indianapolis, voted overwhelmingly to recommend the U.S.congress not to change the farm bill. While there are nospecific pork items in that legislation, feed grain pricesdirectly affect pork producer profits, the NPPC said.    Don Gingerich, a delegate from Iowa, said "to haveunpredictable changes come along periodically makes it verydifficult to plan and causes a lot of disruption."    Other members said the farm bill has some imperfections butthat's a price pork producers are willing to pay forlegislative stability, an NPPC spokesman said.    Delegates also passed unanimously a resolution thatCongress and the administration should act swiftly to identifyproblems in the farm credit system.    Farm Credit Task Force chairman and newly elected VicePresident of the NPPC Ray Hankes, said delegates wanted aprogram that all commodity groups can work with and bring a resolution to this problem with legislators in Washington.    Hankes added that the National Pork Producers Council willwork to save farmers and keep credit available, but not to saveor create any one credit system. Reuter
MEATPACKERS REJECT OCCIDENTAL <OXY> UNIT OFFER United Food and Commercial Workers UnionLocal 222 rejected a new contract proposal from Iowa BeefProcessors Inc and remain out of work, union spokesman AllenZack said.    In mid-December, Iowa Beef, a subsidiary of OccidentalPetroleum Corp, closed its beef processing plant at DakotaCity, Nebraska, because it said "it had no alternative tothreats by meatpackers to disrupt operations."    About 2,800 UFCWU members are affected by what the unionterms as a lockout.  A 3-1/2 year labor contract at the plantexpired December 13.    Zack said IBP's proposal included elimination of a two-tierwage structure, a 60 cent an hour wage cut for slaughterers anda 45 cent an hour wage reduction for processors.    The new proposal also included a bonus system of 1,000 dlrsfor workers who had been at the plant for two years, Zack said.The annual turnover rate at the facility is 100 pct, he said. Reuter
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES Chicago Mercantile Exchange floortraders and commission house representatives are guesstimatingtoday's hog slaughter at about 300,000 to 305,000 head versus292,000 week ago and 316,000 a year ago.    Saturday's hog slaughter is guesstimated at about 30,000 to55,000 head.    Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 128,000 to130,000 head versus 129,000 week ago and 119,000 a year ago.    Saturday's cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 20,000to 40,000 head. Reuter
U.K. OFFICIALS STUDY SALMONELLA/CALF FEED LINK U.K. Officials are studying the possiblelink between the use of antibiotics in calf feeds and thespread of drug-resistant strains of salmonella in humans, aMinistry of Agriculture official said.    A study published in the New England Journal of Medicineyesterday stated that the spread of an unusual strain ofsalmonella that is resistant to the drug chloramphenicol hadbeen shown to be linked to farms that used the drug to promotethe growth of cattle.   The U.K. Ministry of Agriculture is working with theDepartment of Health and the Public Health Laboratory toinvestigate the whole subject of resistant strains ofsalmonella.    "The Ministry of Agriculture is concerned about the possibleeffects on human and animal health," the official said. Thegovernment is also studying a recommendation from the FarmAnimal Welfare Council (FAWC) to restrict the trade of calvesunder 56 days old through markets. The FAWC says this wouldhelp reduce the spread of salmonella. Reuter
USDA TO CONDUCT SURVEY FOR AVIAN INFLUENZA U.S. Agriculture Department animalhealth officials are conducting a national survey of live-birdmarkets and auctions to check for signs of avian influenza, aninfectious viral disease of poultry, the department said.    The survey will locate poultry dealers and live-birdmarkets that sell live birds directly to the consumer and oncethe dealers and markets are identified, there will be tests todetermine any past or present exposure to avian influenzaviruses, it said.    In 1983-84, an outbreak of avian influenza in Pennsylvania,Maryland, Virginia and New Jersey cost taxpayers 65 mln dlrs tocontrol and required the destruction of more than 17 mln birds,it said.    The survey is expected to be completed by April 15. Reuter
AMERICAN PORK CONGRESS TO BE OVERHAULED IN 1988 The National Pork Producers Council,NPPC, announced at this year's American Pork Congress, APC,that the Congress and trade show will be divided into two partsin 1988.    Next years APC, held in Atlanta, will be a business sessiononly and will continue to be the first week of March.    The trade show is being changed into a new internationalevent called the World Pork Expo. The first expo will be heldin June 1988 in Des Moines with an expanded format, they said.    Executive vice-president Orville Sweet said the decision tospilt the show and Congress came about because there areproducers who never get to see the trade show floor.    "It makes sense that we divide the business session fromthe trade show," Sweet said. Reuter
AUSTRALIAN BEEF OUTPUT DECLINES IN JANUARY Australian beef output declined to104,353 tonnes carcass weight in January from 112,262 inDecember and 105,715 a year earlier, the Statistics Bureausaid.    This followed a decline in the cattle slaughter to 472,900head from 509,500 in December and 478,800 in January 1986, thebureau said.    But cumulative beef output for the first seven months offiscal 1986/87 ending June 30 rose to 838,416 tonnes from746,837 a year earlier following a rise in cattle slaughter to3.84 mln head from 3.40 mln. REUTER
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES Chicago Mercantile Exchange floortraders and commission house representatives are guesstimatingtoday's hog slaughter at about 285,000 to 300,000 head versus292,000 week ago and 309,000 a year ago.    Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 125,000 to131,000 head versus 129,000 week ago and 119,000 a year ago. Reuter
LMFE TO CONCENTRATE ON CASH SETTLED CONTRACTS The London Meat Futures Exchange, LMFE,will cease trading in its deliverable pigmeat contract fromApril 3, the LMFE said.    The move will enable the exchange to concentrate on thecash settled contracts introduced last year.    "This allows the exchange and its members to concentrate ourmarketing on the pig and live cattle contracts," LMFE officialPeter Freeman said. "These two have already shown theireffectiveness for hedging, and the trade in both contracts isincreasing," he added.    "Using the futures market allows better planning and forwardprice fixing that our industry needs," chairman Pat Elmer said.    Some 131 pig contracts were settled against the Meat andLivestock Commission's Average All Pigs Price in February,which represents hedging for over 13,000 pigs, more than twicethe number cash-settled in January, the LMFE said.    Cash settlement on the new cattle and pig contracts wasintroduced last June in the expectation that the appeal of thefutures market to farmers, abattoirs and users of meat wouldincrease because of the absence of a delivery requirement. Reuter
MEATPACKERS STRIKE MORRELL SIOUX CITY PLANT About 800 members of the United Food andCommercial Workers Union, UFCWU, struck John Morrell's SiouxCity, Iowa, pork processing plant at midnight Sunday, aspokesman for the UFCWU national said.    Meatpackers at the plant have been working without acontract since the old pact expired January 31, UFCWU spokesmanJohn Mancuso said. The plant can slaughter and process about13,000 to 14,000 hogs a day, he estimated.    The UFCWU bargaining committee and full membership rejectedin late January a contract proposal by John Morrell, asubsidiary of United Brands Inc, he said.
CCC ACCEPTS EXPORT BONUS DAIRY CATTLE TO MOROCCO The Commodity Credit Corporation,CCC, has accepted a bonus offer from an exporter on the sale of13 head of dairy cattle to Morocco, the U.S. AgricultureDepartment said.    The department said the bonus awarded was 1,505.00 dlrs perhead and was made to Brown Swiss Enterprises Inc. It will bepaid in the form of commodities from CCC inventories.    The cattle are for delivery during March 9-September 30,1987.    The department said the purchase completes the ExportEnhancement Program initiative for dairy cattle to Moroccoannounced on April 16, 1986. Reuter
CCC EXPORT BONUS DAIRY CATTLE FOR CANARY ISLANDS The Commodity Credit Corporation,CCC, has accepted a bonus offer from an exporter on the sale of75 head of dairy cattle to the Canary Islands, the U.S.Agriculture Department said.    The department said the bonus awarded was 1,459.00 dlrs perhead and was made to T.K. International Inc. It will be paid inthe form of commodities from the inventory of CCC stocks.    The cattle are for delivery during March-June, 1987, itsaid.    An additional 3,925 head of dairy cattle are stillavailable to the Canary Islands under the Export EnahcnementProgram initiative announced July 28, 1986, it said. Reuter
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES Chicago Mercantile Exchange floortraders and commission house representatives are guesstimatingtoday's hog slaughter at about 295,000 to 308,000 head versus305,000 week ago and 308,000 a year ago.    Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 128,000 to132,000 head versus 130,000 week ago and 126,000 a year ago. Reuter
ARGENTINE MEAT EXPORTS LOWER IN 1986 Argentine meat exports duringJan/Dec 1986 totalled 220,911 tonnes, against 223,204 tonnesshipped in the same 1985 period, the National Meat board said.    Shipments in tonnes with comparative figures for the 1985period, in brackets, included: beef 120,184 (137,686), horsemeat 25,651 (33,892) and beef offal 50,100 (47,745).    Argentina's meat exports totalled 20,481 tonnes in December1986, against 15,801 tonnes in the same 1985 month.    Shipments in tonnes, with comparative figures for December1985, in brackets, included: beef 14,384 (10,339), horse meat1,609 (1,539) and beef offal 3,388 (3,098), the board said.    Main destinations for refrigerated beef (bone inequivalent) were as follows, in tonnes, with comparativefigures for 1985 in brackets:    E.C. 46,300 (49,700), Israel 16,200 (17,600), Brazil 18,100(unavailable), Peru 8,100 (2,300), Angola 4,800 (12,100), Chile3,400 (8,200), Switzerland 3,000 (3,000), Canary Islands 2,400(3,700), Singapore 1,900 (1,700), Aruba/Curazao 1,600 (1,700).    Main destinations for canned meat and cooked beef (bone inequivalent) in tonnes, with figures for 1985 in brackets, were:United States 88,300 (102,900), E.C. 30,700 (24,100). Reuter
ARGENTINE MEAT EXPORTS HIGHER IN JAN/FEB 1987 Argentine meat exports duringJan/Feb 1987 totalled 39,714 tonnes, against 36,594 tonnesshipped in the same 1986 period, National Meat board said.    Shipments in tonnes with comparative figures for the 1986period, in brackets, included: beef 26,945 (20,096), horse meat3,257 (4,211) and beef offal 7,660 (10,502).    Argentine's meat exports totalled 20,243 tonnes in February1987, against 19,217 tonnes shipped in the same 1986 month.    Shipments in tonnes, with comparative figures for February1986, in brackets, included: beef 13,272 (11,464), horse meat1,543 (2,083) and beef offal 4,476 (4,672), the board added.    Main destinations for refrigerated beef (bone inequivalent) were as follows, in tonnes, with comparativefigures for 1986 in brackets -    EC 5,500 (7,900), Brazil 5,200 (unavailable), Israel 3,700(3,000), Peru 2,500 (800), Singapore 500 (300), Switzerland 500(400), Canary Islands 500 (300), Malta 500 (700), Aruba/Curazao200 (300), Chile 100 (600).    Main destinations for canned meat and cooked beef (bone inequivalent), in tonnes with comparative figures for Jan/Feb1986, in brackets, were -    United States 11,200 (13,400), EC 4,700 (5,100). Reuter
AUSTRALIA EXPECTS RISE IN MEAT EXPORTS TO MIDEAST Australia expects meat and livestockexports to the Middle East to maintain an upward trend thisyear, managing director of the Australian Meat and LivestockCorp, Peter Frawley, said.    He told Reuters an improvement in the economic climate andless competition from the European Community should lead in theGulf area to higher beef sales, which dropped from 33,000tonnes in 1980 to just 2,300 tonnes last year.    "In the last three to four months there has been aresurgence of inquiries," he said.    Frawley is on a Gulf tour which will also take him to SaudiArabia, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait to assess marketpotential.    On beef exports, he said a 50 pct drop in EuropeanCommunity intervention stock in the past 12 months would helpAustralian sales.    The fall meant the EC was not as aggressive in thesemarkets, where the Australian trade was the natural source ofsupply, and Australia was "now back in," Frawley said.    He said there was a debate in Australia as to whether theMiddle East market for livestock, which accounts for two-thirdsof meat export value to the area, would be maintained.    He believed the trade would remain with a continuing demandfor fresh meat.    The number of live sheep shipped last year to Saudi Arabia,the biggest single market, was 3,214,159 compared with2,939,226 in 1985. The numbers shipped to the United ArabEmirates and Bahrain fell, however.    Frawley said the slackening in demand in the Gulf had beenoffset by other Arab countries around the Mediterranean.    Other than livestock, Australia's overall meat sales to theMiddle East rose to 72,374 tonnes in 1986 from 52,403 tonnesthe previous year, largely due to the sale of 25,790 tonnes ofmutton and lamb to Iran.    Australia sold 9,824 tonnes to Iran in 1985 after beingvirtually excluded by New Zealand competition for severalyears. Frawley said the 1986 sale contract had included abarter provision, but Iran had paid in full in cash.    Negotiations with the Iranians for 1987 shipments werecurrently under way, with Iran again seeking credit and barterprovisions, he said.    Frawley said there had been a tremendous growth in demandfor chilled lamb in the last four to five years and hepredicted this would continue.    "The Middle East, and the Gulf in particular, is nowAustralia's largest market for lamb, chilled and flown in.Australia is in an ideal position to provide the supplies ifthe market is willing to pay a premium for a fresh, youngproduct," he said. REUTER
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES Chicago Mercantile Exchange floortraders and commission house representatives are guesstimatingtoday's hog slaughter at about 290,000 to 310,000 head versus309,000 week ago and 328,000 a year ago.    Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 128,000 to131,000 head versus 129,000 week ago and 127,000 a year ago. Reuter
OCCIDENTAL UNIT <OXY> LIFTS LOCKOUT Iowa Beef Processors Inc is lifting alockout at its Dakota City, Nebraska processing plant and plansto resume operations March 16, United Food and CommercialWorkers Union spokesman Allen Zack said by phone from hisWashington, D.C. headquarters.    Iowa Beef, a susbsidiary of Occidental Petroleum Corp,mailed a letter to members of UFCWU Local 222 informing them alockout imposed by the company on December 14 would be liftedand meatpackers could return to work under Iowa Beef's"revised, last and best final offer," according to Zack.    The letter was signed by four managers at the Dakota Cityplant.    Iowa Beef closed the proessing plant indefinitely inmid-December because, it said, it had no alternative to threatsby meatpackers to disrupt operations.    About 2,800 members of Local 222 are affected by theshutdown. A 3-1/2 year labor contract at the plant expiredDecember 13. Reuter
IOWA BEEF LIFTS LOCKOUT AT DAKOTA CITY Iowa Beef Processors Inc is lifting alockout at its Dakota City, Nebraska, processing plant andplans to resume operations March 16, United Food and CommercialWorkers (UFCW) Union spokesman Allen Zack said.    Iowa Beef mailed a letter to members of UFCW Local 222informing them a lockout imposed by the company December 14would be lifted and meatpackers could return to work under IowaBeef's "revised, last and best final offer," Zack said.    Iowa Beef had closed the plant indefinitely in mid-Decemberbecause it said it had no alternative to threats by meatpackersto disrupt operations.    About 2,800 members of Local 222 are affected by theshutdown. A 3-1/2 year labor contract at the plant expiredDecember 13. Reuter
LIVE CATTLE RALLY AS LOCKOUT AT MEAT PLANT ENDS Live cattle futures posted a robustrally today after a major beef packing company said it wouldend a lockout at its slaughtering plant in Dakota City, Neb.    April delivery cattle on the Chicago Mercantile Exchangeclosed at 64.45 cents a pound, up 0.83 cent, as the marketexpected demand for live animals to increase as the plantrestarts operations.    Iowa Beef Processors, a division of Occidental Petroleum,said it planned to reopen the plant, one of the largest in thenation, on March 16. The plant has been closed since Dec. 14,the day after a contract between IBP and Local 222 of theUnited Food and Commercial Workers Union expired.    The plant employs 2,800 workers and can slaughter severalthousand animals a day, a company spokesman said.    The company said it locked out union workers because theythreatened to disrupt operations. It was unclear whether unionmeatpackers would return to work. They rejected the company'slatest contract offer March 5.    Traders said cattle prices advanced at midsession as rumorscirculated that the lockout was ending, and gains were furtherfueled by a noticeable increase in demand for live animals oncash markets in Nebraska and the Texas Panhandle.    The rally in cattle also boosted values of live hogs andfrozen pork bellies, which also were supported by indicationsthat producers were expanding their hog herds at a slower ratethan previously expected.    Petroleum futures posted a modest rally on the New YorkMercantile Exchange.    But a report that the Soviet Union planned to reduce theprice of its crude oil exports may pressure the market Friday,said Nauman Barakat, petroleum analyst in New York with SmithBarney, Harris Upham and Co.    Buying by companies that deal in petroleum helped pricesrecover from early weakness, traders said.    Gold futures rallied, partly in response to strength in thesilver market, on the Commodity Exchange in New York. Silverprices rallied after a U.S. brokerage house recommended itscustomers buy the metal, traders said.    Coffee futures drifted lower in response to a report thatColombia lowered the price of its exports, traders said.    Sugar prices closed slightly higher on the Coffee, Sugarand Cocoa Exchange despite a large export sale by the EuropeanCommission on Wednesday.    Soybeans were higher, wheat lower and corn mixed on theChicago Board of Trade.    Soybeans were boosted by expectations that the AgricultureDepartment would report a healthy signup for the ConservationReserve Program, which pays farmers to leave highly erodibleland idle instead of planting a crop, traders said.    Concern that a strike by Brazilian seamen might interruptexports of soybeans from Brazil, where the harvest is justbeginning, also underpinned prices, they said.    Wheat prices were pressured by selling in response totrends on price charts, they said. Reuter
MEATPACKERS RESPOND TO OCCIDENTAL<OXY> OFFER Local 222 of the United Food andCommercial Workers Union said it is calling a membershipmeeting, possibly Sunday, to discuss its response to a decisionby Iowa Beef Processors Inc to lift a lockout at its DakotaCity, Nebraska plant and resume operations.    The UFCWU will consider all options available to itincluding a strike or returning to work under IBP's last laborcontract proposal, a spokeswoman for Local 222 said by phone.    About 2,800 UFCWU members have been locked out at theDakota City plant since December 14.    IBP is a subsidiary of Occidental Petroleum Corp. Reuter
JAPAN SETS 1987/88 FIRST HALF BEEF IMPORT QUOTA The Agriculture Ministry said it setJapan's beef import quota for the six months from April 1 at93,000 tonnes, up from 83,000 in the second half of 1986/87 and85,000 a year earlier.    Under an agreement with the U.S. And Australia, Japan hasbeen increasing imports by 9,000 tonnes a year from March 31,1985, to reach a projected 177,000 tonnes in the year to March31, 1988. REUTER
U.S. MEAT GROUP TO FILE TRADE COMPLAINTS The American Meat Institute, AME,said it intended to ask the U.S. government to retaliateagainst a European Community meat inspection requirement.    AME President C. Manly Molpus also said the industry wouldfile a petition challenging Korea's ban of U.S. meat products.    Molpus told a Senate Agriculture subcommittee that AME andother livestock and farm groups intended to file a petitionunder Section 301 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Tradeagainst an EC directive that, effective April 30, will requireU.S. meat processing plants to comply fully with EC standards.    The meat industry will seek to have the U.S. governmentretaliate against EC and Korean exports if their complaints areupheld. Reuter
U.S. MEAT GROUP TO FILE TRADE COMPLAINTS The American Meat Institute, AME,said it intended to ask the U.S. government to retaliateagainst a European Community meat inspection requirement.    AME President C. Manly Molpus also said the industry wouldfile a petition challenging Korea's ban of U.S. meat products.    Molpus told a Senate Agriculture subcommittee that AME andother livestock and farm groups intended to file a petitionunder Section 301 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Tradeagainst an EC directive that, effective April 30, will requireU.S. meat processing plants to comply fully with EC standards.   Reuter
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES Chicago Mercantile Exchange floortraders and commission house representatives are guesstimatingtoday's hog slaughter at about 295,000 to 302,000 head versus293,000 week ago and 309,000 a year ago.    Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 123,000 to126,000 head versus 123,000 week ago and 121,000 a year ago. Reuter
CCC ACCEPTS BID FOR DAIRY CATTLE TO KUWAIT The Commodity Credit Corporation(CCC) has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the saleof 380 head of dairy cattle to Kuwait, the U.S. AgricultureDepartment said.    The dairy cattle are for shipment on or before May 31,1987, it said.    The bonus of 1,465.00 dlrs per head was made to AmericanMarketing Services, Inc, and will be paid in the form ofcommodities from the CCC inventory, it said.    An additional 761 head of dairy cattle are still availableto Gulf countries (kuwait, Bahrain, Oman, Qatar and the UnitedArab Emirates under the Export Enhancement Program initiativeannounced October 30, 1986, it said. Reuter
UNION VOTES TO STRIKE DAKOTA CITY IBP PLANT Members of the United Food andCommercial Workers union, UFCW, local 222 voted Sunday to go onstrike against Iowa Beef Processors Inc Dakota City, Nebraska,plant, effective Tuesday.    The company submitted their latest offer to the union atthe same time announcing that they would end the lockout as oftomorrow that started December 14.    Members unanimously rejected the latest company offer thatwas submitted to the union late last week. An overwhelmingmajority of the approximately 2,500 members attending themeeting then voted to go on strike, UFCW union spokesman AllenZack said.    Zack said the company's offer for a cut in wages wasunacceptable and said IBP was refusing to bargain in goodfaith.    IBP's latest offer included wage cuts of 60 cents an hourfor slaughter operations and a 45 cents an hour cut in pay forprocessing workers. The cut follows the 1.07 dlr cut in payworkers received in 1982 and the wage freeze that has lastedsince then, Zack said.    The offer also eliminated overtime after eight hoursfollowing the normal 40 hour work week, he added. Reuter
UNION VOTES TO STRIKE DAKOTA CITY IBP PLANT The United Food and Commercial Workersunion, Local 222 said its members voted Sunday to strike theIowa Beef Processors Inc Dakota City, Neb., plant, effectiveTuesday.    The company said it submitted its latest offer to the unionat the same time announcing that on Tuesday it would end alockout that started December 14.    Union members unanimously rejected the latest company offerthat was submitted to the union late last week, UFCW unionspokesman Allen Zack said. Reuter
JAPAN SEEN REDUCING BEEF, PORK INTERVENTION PRICES The Agriculture Ministry is expected toreduce official intervention prices for beef and pork in1987/88 starting in April, but the cutback ratio has not beenset yet, industry sources said.    Production prices, the basis for setting interventionprices, have been falling because of declining compound feedprices due to low coarse grain import prices, they said.    Last November an advisory panel urged the government towork on reducing officially set high farm product prices tolevels closer to international values, the sources added.    In Japan the government maintains a price stabilisationzone system for beef and pork to support domestic producers.    The stabilisation zone is kept by the semi-governmentLivestock Industry Promotion Corp (LIPC) through a buffer stockoperation in the wholesale market.    The 1987/88 beef and pork price stabilisation zone will beset by the end of March after an advisory panel to theAgriculture Ministry recommends the price zone at a meeting onMarch 25, ministry officials said. At present, the standard orbottom price of castrated wagyu beef, known as marbled beef, is1,400 yen per kilo, while its ceiling is 1,820, they said.    The standard price of other beef, mainly produced fromdairy steers, is now 1,090 yen per kilo and the ceiling is1,420, the officials said. The pork standard price is now 540yen per kilo and the ceiling 760.    They said the domestic beef intervention price influencesimported beef selling prices on the domestic market.    Japan sets an annual beef import quota. A semi-governmentbody imports most of this and releases it to wholesalers orprocessors in line with the standard price of other beefcategories in an attempt to avoid jeoparadising domestic beefprices, they said. REUTER
RENEWED BULL SPREADING LIKELY ON CATTLE REPORT Livestock analysts expect renewed bullspreading in live cattle futures following yesterday's USDA7-state cattle on feed report.    The USDA reported high placements in February, which mayweigh on back months of cattle futures. Meanwhile, continuedstrong marketings during the month will support the Aprilcontract.    Contracts for June delivery forward could open 25 to 50cents lower while April will likely open about steady, analystssaid.    Cheap corn is still the main incentive for putting cattleon feed, according to Smith Barney livestock analyst TomO'Hare. "They have no place to send the grain," he said.    Strong daily fundamentals may add to nearby support whilethe current discount of deferred months to the cash market mayoffset much of the effect of the report, analysts said.    "The cash market is strong and may overshadow the report,"said Robin Fuller, analyst for Agri Analysis. She added thateven though placements came in above the average trade guess,many traders had expected high placements.    Placements are not that negative, especially since thetechnical correction in June and August live cattle futuressince last week, GH Miller analyst Jerry Gidel said.    He said the current marketing posture will provide addedsupport to the nearby month. Feedlot marketings have beenrunning at a heavier than expected pace.    Chuck Levitt, analyst for Shearson Lehman said that withthe number of cattle on feed down five pct at the beginning ofthe year, a three pct decline in marketings was expected. Butthe report for January showed marketings at 101 pct of a yearago and in February marketings were at 100 pct, Levitt noted.    "So far we haven't seen any decline in marketings. They(feedlot operators) are marketing more cattle than they hadintended for the first quarter, which is a bullishdevelopment," Levitt said.    Gidel also noted that marketings for the early part ofMarch are running ahead of a year ago. Feedlots are not fallingbehind and are holding that 100 pct marketing pace. Reuter
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES Chicago Mercantile Exchange floortraders and commission house representatives are guesstimatingtoday's hog slaughter at about 295,000 to 305,000 head versus307,000 week ago and 311,000 a year ago.    Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 124,000 to128,000 head versus 127,000 week ago and 126,000 a year ago. Reuter
COLD STORAGE REPORT FOR BELLIES NEUTRAL/NEGATIVE Chicago Mercantile Exchange floortraders' immediate reaction to the cold storage report for porkbellies was neutral to slightly negative.    Frozen pork belly stocks at 34.5 mln lbs on March 1compared with a revised 34.9 mln lbs on February 1 for a netout movement of 0.5 mln lbs.    The number on hand compared with trade guesses of 33.5 to36 mln lbs and the year ago figure of 51.2 mln lbs.    Traders said the figure was toward the upper end ofexpectations and may provide slight downward pressure becauseof recent sharp gains in futures. Reuter
CCC ACCEPTS EXPORT BONUS FOR CATTLE TO EGYPT The U.S. Commodity CreditCorporation (CCC) has accepted a bid for an export bonus tocover a sale of 186 head of dairy cattle to Egypt, the U.S.Agriculture Department said.    The department said the cattle are for delivery May 7-June7, 1987, and the bonus awarded was 1,888.06 dlrs per head.    The bonus was made to First Interstate Trading Co and willbe paid to the exporter in the form of commodities from CCCstocks, the department said.    An additional 7,959 head of dairy cattle are stillavailable to Egypt under the Export Enhancement Programinitiative announced September 12, 1986, it said. Reuter
LITTLE EFFECT SEEN FROM COLD STORAGE REPORT The USDA monthly cold storage reportfor meats is expected to have little, if any, effect onlivestock and meat futures at the Chicago Mercantile ExchangeMonday and daily fundamentals will likely provide the bulk ofdirection, livestock analysts said.    The increase of 66.4 mln lbs in total poultry offsets the22.6 mln lbs decline in total red meats. Fundamentals mayprovide most of the direction in futures on Monday, they said.    "I think the market is going to be looking at some otherthings and accentuate whatever the action of cash markets mightbe early next week," Jerry Gidel, livestock analyst for GHMiller, said.    Shearson Lehman livestock analyst Chuck Levitt said futureswill be in the shadow of a little larger seasonal hogmarketings pace next week. Also, Easter ham business wascompleted this week and there may be less aggressive interestfor pork in general next week.    "We needed some help from the cold storage report to averta possible setback next week in the pork complex," Levitt said.    Analysts agreed with CME floor traders and called the bellyfigure neutral to slightly negative. Although belly stocks weredown 33 pct from last year, they exceeded the averageexpectation and actually showed a lighter than expected declinefrom last month due to an adjustment to last month's holdings,they said.    However, analysts noted that the amount of bellies put instorage has been light since the beginning of March and this isa potentially bullish situation.    Glenn Grimes, agronomist at the University of Missouri,said, "I would not look for (belly) storage during the nextmonth or two to be heavier than a year ago - I think it will beless." Reuter
U.S. TO ASK JAPAN TO DROP BEEF RESTRICTIONS U.S. Agriculture SecretaryRichard Lyng will ask the Japanese Government to remove allbeef import restrictions when he visits there next month.    Lyng's remarks came in a speech at Oklahoma StateUniversity today.    "We think Japanese consumers should have the same freedomof choice as our consumers. Look at all the Japanese camerasand tape recorders in this room. We know they'd buy more beefif they had the opportunity," Lyng said. Reuter
STORM BRINGS HEAVY SNOWS TO U.S. PLAINS The National Weather Service said apowerful winter storm centered over north central Oklahoma wasspreading snow from western and central Kansas across much ofNebraska to southern and eastern South Dakota.    Rain was reported across parts of Minnesota, Iowa, easternKansas, Missouri and eastern Oklahoma, with showers and a fewthundershowers extending from Arkansas through the lowerMississippi Valley to Alabama and northwest Florida.    Strong winds of 20 to 35 mph with some stronger gusts werereported across much of the Plains, causing considerableblowingand drifting snow. A blizzard warning continued thismorning across most of western Kansas. A winter storm warningwas issued this morning over central and northeast Nebraska.    Weather advisories were posted for this morning overcentral Kansas and central and southeast sections of SouthDakota where two to five inches of snow could accumulate.    Locally heavy rains accompanied the storm over portions ofthe central Plains. Flash flood watches were issued for thismorning across the eastern half of Kansas.    A flood warning continues today for eastern Nebraska.Widespread lowland and small stream flooding is expected tocontinue over most of eastern Nebraska through Wednesday.    Due to cold, damp and windy conditions, livestockadvisories were posted this morning across central andsoutheast portions of South Dakota.    As the storm moves north across the central Plains, winterstorm watches were issued over south central South Dakota, latetonight and Wednesday over west central Minnesota.    Elsewhere, a travelers advisory remains in effect thismorning over northeast New Mexico and the Oklahoma and TecasPanhandle for blowing snow and slick roadways and across themountains and deserts of southern California for strong gustywinds of 25 to 40 mph. Gale warnings were issued for todayalong the central California Coast.    Mostly clear skies extended from the Great Lakes and OhioValley through the central Appalachians to the central AtlanticCoast and New England. Reuter
HONDURAS SEEKS PL480 VESSELS FOR TALLOW DELIVERY Honduras will tender March 26 underPL480 for U.S. and non-U.S. flag vessels to import 1,500 tonnesof tallow in bulk, an agent for the country said.    The agent said delivery includes laydays of April 5-15.    Offers are due by 1200 hrs EST, March 26, and will remainvalid until the close of business the following day, the agentsaid. Reuter
EC COLD AID FOOD SCHEME MAY BE MADE PERMANENT Emergency action to distributeEuropean Community (EC) food surpluses to the poor has provedso successful that the EC executive Commission may propose apermanent scheme, a Commission spokesman said.    Almost 60,000 tonnes of food was taken out of EC storesbetween January 20, when Agriculture Ministers approved thescheme, and March 13, according to latest commission figures.    The food, including 30,000 tonnes of cereals, 6,000 tonnesof sugar, 4,000 tonnes of beef and 13,300 tonnes of butter, hasbeen distributed to the needy through charities.    The present scheme was approved as an emergency measure tohelp poor people affected by this year's unusually cold winterand will end on March 31.    But the spokesman said the commission will consider whetherto propose it be replaced by an all-year-round system.    The commission estimates that up to March 13 the temporaryscheme cost between 63 and 68 mln European currency units(72/78 mln dlrs). This is above the 50 mln Ecu (57 mln dlr)ceiling originally envisaged by the Ministers.    However, commission sources said the real cost was small ifaccount is taken of the expense of keeping food in store untilits quality and value deteriorates.    On the other hand, the impact of the temporary scheme on ECfood surpluses has been slight. EC surplus food stocks atJanuary 31 included 1.28 mln tonnes of butter, 520,000 tonnesof beef and over 10 mln tonnes of cereals. Reuter
U.S. SENATORS SEEK TO EXPAND USDA EXPORT BONUS Leading U.S. farm state senators areseeking to insert into the Senate's omnibus trade bill aprovision that would broaden eligibility requirements under theU.S. Agriculture Department's export enhancement program, EEP,to include traditional buyers of U.S. farm products, includingthe Soviet Union, Senate staff said.    Under existing criteria, USDA can offer EEP subsidies torecoup export markets lost to competing nations' unfair tradingpractices.    Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.)is leading a group of farm state senators in an effort tobroaden the criteria in such a way as to enable Moscow to beeligible for the subsidies, sources said.    The senators -- including Senate Finance Committee ChairmanLloyd Bentsen (D-Tex.), Max Baucus (D-Mont.), David Pryor(D-Ark.), John Melcher (D-Mont.) and Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) --also may fold into the trade bill a measure to shield porkproducers and processors from Canadian imports.    The measure, sponsored by Sen. Charles Grassley (R-Iowa),would clarify the definition of "industry" in determining whetheror not imports were causing injury to U.S. producers.    Grassley's bill stems from a 1985 decision by theInternational Trade Commission that imports from Canada of liveswine -- but not fresh, chilled and frozen pork -- were harmingU.S. producers.    The bill's proponents have argued Canada has simplyreplaced shipments of live hogs with fresh pork. Reuter
CCC ACCEPTS BONUS BID ON CATTLE FOR EGYPT - USDA The Commodity Credit Corporation hasaccepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 760head of dairy cattle to Egypt, the U.S. Agriculture Departmentsaid.    The delivery period for the cattle is April, 1987-June,1988, it said.    The bonus of 1,870.00 dlrs per head was made to EsmahNevada Inc and will be paid in the form of commodities from theCCC inventory.    An additional 7,199 head of dairy cattle are stillavailable to Egypt under the Export Enhancement Programinitiative announced September 12, 1986, the department said. Reuter
INT'L MINERALS PROJECT TO BOOST HOG LEAN WEIGHT International Minerals andChemical Corp said its board approved a 50 mln dlrs budget overthe next several years to build production facilities for anewly developed product to be used to improve the lean weightof hogs.    The new product, porcine somatotropin (PST) is described asa natural bio-synthetic protein that improves the lean weightand rate of weight gain, as well as reduces the cost of feedfor market hogs, the company said.    Specific details of the PST production project, includingsites for proposed facilities and engineering plans, were notdisclosed. International Minerals said it set a completiontarget for the spring of 1989, by which time necessary Food andDrug Administration approvals are expected to be obtained. Reuter
JAPAN BEEF PRICE SUPPORT CUT WILL NOT RAISE DEMAND Japan's plan to cut beef interventionprices for the fiscal year starting April 1 will not boostdemand because of strict supply controls and a complexdistribution system, Japanese and U.S. Industry sources said.    "Government beef policy protects farmers rather than meetingconsumers' demands and the cutback ... Is too marginal," aHousewives Association of Japan official said.    Despite mounting U.S. Pressure on Japan to open farmmarkets, beef is strictly controlled by the government, whichmaintains a price stabilisation zone to protect farmers.    Under the plan, expected to be announced this month, thestandard or bottom price of castrated wagyu -- known as marbledbeef -- will be set at 1,370 yen per kilo for 1987/88 against1,400 now, and the ceiling at 1,780 yen against 1,820.    The standard price of other beef, mainly produced fromdairy steers, is set at 1,020 yen against 1,090 and the ceilingat 1,325 against 1,420.    Ministry officials said the semi-government LivestockIndustry Promotion Corp (LIPC) conducts buffer stock operationsto help keep wholesale beef prices within the interventionprice zone.    The LIPC is allowed to import most beef, with the amountset by the government under a quota system. When wholesaleprices go above the ceiling, the LIPC releases its beef stocks,both domestic and imported, and buys locally produced beef whenprices are below.    But the LIPC has often been criticised for releasing beefstocks when the prices are higher than the ceiling.    Phillip Seng, Asian Director of the U.S. Meat ExportFederation, told Reuters the two pct cut in prices is a steptoward closing the gap with European Community prices, abouthalf those in Japan.    But Seng said the cut will not benefit consumers or U.S.Meat exporters because of Japan's rigid and complicateddistribution system and strict supply control by the LIPC.    The Housewives Association official said retail beef pricesare high mainly because of distribution problems and highproduction costs, as well as poor operations by the LIPC.    American meat packers see Japan as a promising market. F.C.Beatty, of U.S. Packer John Morrell and Co, told the JapanTimes beef cuts, which sell for 1.20 to 3.00 dlrs a pound inthe U.S., Are sold at 15 to 30 dlrs in Japan.    But Seng said the cut will not benefit consumers or U.S.Meat exporters because of Japan's rigid and complicateddistribution system and strict supply control by the LIPC.    The Housewives Association official said retail beef pricesare high mainly because of distribution problems and highproduction costs, as well as poor operations by the LIPC.    American meat packers see Japan as a promising market. F.C.Beatty, of U.S. Packer John Morrell and Co, told the JapanTimes beef cuts, which sell for 1.20 to 3.00 dlrs a pound inthe U.S., Are sold at 15 to 30 dlrs in Japan.    But industry sources said it is unclear how much demandwill pick up if retail beef prices drop following any sharpreduction in intervention prices.    U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said this week hewill ask Japan to remove all beef import restrictions when hevisits here next month.    In 1984, Japan decided to increase its beef import quota by9,000 tonnes a year until March 31, 1988.    In 1987/88, the quota will rise to 177,000 tonnes from168,000 in 1986/87, ministry officials said, adding Japan wantsto keep self-sufficiency in beef at around 70 pct. REUTER
FRANCE WILL FIGHT EC FARM PROPOSALS - MINISTER French Agricultural MinisterFrancois Guillaume warned that France would flatly rejectproposed reforms of the European Community, EC, cereals, sugarand oilseeds sectors, which he said would disrupt thesemarkets.    The EC Commission's proposals to shorten the interventionperiod and lower monthly premiums for cereals and increase thefinancial burden on the sugar producers will also result inlower real prices for producers, he told farmers here.    "I give you my word that France, while it will not rejecttechnical adjustments or serious discussion, will simply replyin the negative to these bad reforms," Guillaume told the annualconference of the country's major farm union, FNSEA (Federation Nationale des Syndicats Dexploitants Agricoles).    Community agricultural ministers are due to meet againMonday to try and agree a package of reforms to curb spirallingEC output and fix farm prices for 1987/88.    Relations between the government and farmers have becomestrained in France in recent months.    There have been sporadic but frequent demonstrations byfarmers protesting over sharp falls in meat and pork prices andfurther cutbacks in Community milk output.    But Guillaume's warning that he would reject reorganisationof the EC cereal and sugar markets -- France being a majorproducer of both crops -- won him warm applause from theFNSEA's farmers.    His pledge to fight the EC proposals and push for thecomplete dismantling of the system of cross border taxesdesigned to smooth out currency differences known as MonetaryCompensatory Amounts, MCA's, however, are unlikely to avoidfurther protests by producers.    Farm leader Raymond Lacombe said the union planned to goahead with a series of major protests both in France and abroadagainst the EC Commission's proposals to overhaul the farmsector.    "The Minister's proposals back up our determination toorganise union action in the coming weeks," he told reporters,adding that this could also act in Guillaume's favour on aministerial level.    Guillaume was head of the FNSEA for many years before beingappointed farm minister last spring.    Lacombe refused to say whether the farmers felt thatGuillaume was doing a good job as farm minister.    There have been certain advances on cutting productioncosts, reducing fiscal costs and awarding drought aid, butthere are still areas where more could be done such as onfarmers' indebtedness, he said.    Guillaume told the conference the government will makeavailable 2.4 billion francs (396 mln dlrs) to help producersreduce milk output and to encourage older farmers to retire.    The government has already announced financial aid for themilk sector and it was not clear how much of the packageannounced today was new aid, Lacombe said. Reuter
ZIMBABWE CONFIRMS HOOF-AND-MOUTH DISEASE Zimbabwe has confirmed an outbreak ofthe animal-borne hoof-and-mouth disease, which promptedBotswana on Thursday to stop imports of almost all Zimbabweanmeat products.    Agriculture Ministry Permanent Secretary Robbie Mupawosesaid it had been found at a ranch in southwestern Matabelelandprovince and that all measures were being taken to contain itfrom spreading. "The effect of this outbreak on Zimbabwe's beefexports is being examined," he added in a statement.    Zimbabwe exports a wide range of meat products toneighbouring states and some 8,000 tonnes of high-grade beef tothe European Community annually worth about 48 mln U.S. Dlrs. REUTER
Ia-So Minn direct hogs estimated rcpts 95,000 vs actual week ago 93,000 and actual year ago Baxter Travenol Laboratoriessaid its Hyland Therapeutics unit has started the first humanclinical trials on genetically engineered Factor VIII, theclotting agent missing from the blood of most hemophiliacs.    It said unlike Factor VIII concentrates currently in use,genetically engineered Factor VIII would not be limited by theavailability of human plasma and will be completely free fromblood-borne viruses, including AIDS and all forms of hepatitis,Baxter said.    Baxter also said it is in the final states of U.S. clinicaltrials on a highly purified form of Factor VIII derived fromhuman plasma that is produced using an advanced processincorporating monoclonal antibody purification.    It said Genetics Institute, a publicly held biotechnologycompany in which Baxter is a shareholder, will supply theprotein used for human clinical testing, as well as asubstantial portion of ongoing production requirements. Reuter
HOG REPORT SHOWS MORE HOGS ON FARMS The USDA quarterly hogs and pig reportyesterday showed more hogs on U.S. farms compared to last yearas profitability resulting from low grain prices encouragedproducers to step up production, analysts said.    Most analysts seemed to agree with Chicago MercantileExchange floor traders that the report will be viewed asbearish to pork futures and futures prices may open sharplylower today. Some traders and analysts expect limit declines innearby contracts, with spillover selling likely in cattle.    University of Missouri agronomist Glen Grimes said,"Thereport shows that hog producers have responded to a verydesirable feeding ratio that they enjoyed for the past 10months."    Shearson Lehman analyst Chuck Levitt said hog futuresprices are above producers' break even points. Even if futuresfell the daily limit of 1.50 cents today, producers could stilllock in a profit, which increases the likelihood of heavyselling pressure today.    "We have not had a period of profitability of thismagnitude since last summer," Levitt said. "In fact, hogoperations on many mixed livestock/grain enterprises have beenso profitable that it actually enabled some farmers to get backon their feet and refinance their loans just based on the hogoperation alone."    Levitt said the weight breakdown in the report also wasnegative, in that some lead time was anticipated before theslaughter increased from the previous year.    We expected farmers to increase hog operations, but wedidn't expect this degree of expansion to show up in a 10-statespring report, Levitt added.    High hog corn ratios (the number of bushels of corn thatcould be bought for 100 lbs of hog) and the resulting increasedprofits, encouraged farmers and confinement operations toincrease production starting late last year.    Analysts also noted that part of the increase in the hogherd resulted from a revision of the December report andwithout the revision, the March report might have been veryclose to average expectations.    Robin Fuller of Agri Analysis said the USDA made a majorupward revision of 105,000 head in the size of the breedingherd in the December 1 report. So the December report was morebearish than initially indicated.    But Fuller, as well as other analysts, expected the reportto be less negative on deferred futures contracts. Distantcontracts are already at a sharp discount to cash becausetraders anticipated high farrowing intentions, she noted.    Discounts in the October and December contracts take intoconsideration a six to seven pct increase in March/Mayfarrowing intentions, which was borne out in the March 1report, Fuller said.    Grimes said, "As far as the distant months are concerned,if our first quarter pig crop is up only six pct and under 60lb inventories actually up only five pct, it would take atremendous discount in price for each percent increase for usto push down to the prices that the current futures show forthe July and August period."    Jerry Abbenhaus, analyst for AGE Clearing noted thatdistant futures prices are already 15 to 20 dlrs lower thanthey were last summer.    "If cash hogs at the 7-markets last year averaged 61 dlrsduring July, that doesn't mean hogs have to be 15 dlrs cheaperthis year because we have six pct more numbers," he said. Reuter
U.S. TALLOW PRODUCTION AND STOCKS U.S. factory production of inedibletallow and grease amounted to 421.5 mln lbs in February, vs arevised 471.5 mln lbs the previous month and 419.2 mln lbs inthe year-ago period, the Census Bureau said.    The bureau placed February factory production of edibletallow at 96.9 mln lbs, vs a revised 111.4 mln lbs the previousmonth and 122.7 mln lbs in February a year earlier.    It estimated factory and warehouse stocks of inedibletallow on February 28 at 410.7 mln lbs, vs a revised 351.6 mlnthe previous month and 361.9 mln in February, 1986.    End-Feb stocks of edible tallow amounted to 41.9 mln lbs,vs a revised 40.1 mln lbs and 48.6 mln lbs in their respectiveperiods.    Factory consumption of inedible tallow and grease inFebruary was assessed at 238.3 mln lbs, vs a revised 250.4 mlnlbs a month earlier and 220.5 mln lbs in the year-ago period.    During February, factories used 65.3 mln lbs of edibletallow, vs a revised 71.8 mln and 84.6 mln, respectively.    Total factory production and consumption of tallow in the1987 marketing season, which began Jan 1, vs the 1986 season,were as follows, in mln lbs --   Production -- 1987     1986    Inedible    893.0    920.1      Edible    208.3    274.7 Consumption --    Inedible    488.7    473.7      Edible    137.1    176.4 Reuter
U.S. LARD CONSUMPTION IN FEBRUARY U.S. factory usage of lard in theproduction of both edible and inedible products during Februarytotaled 22.0 mln lbs, vs a revised 20.2 mln lbs in January,according to Census Bureau figures.    In the year-earlier period, usage, which includeshydrogenated vegetable and animal fats and other oils inprocess, amounted to 31.4 mln lbs.    Usage in February comprised 16.6 mln lbs of edible productsand 5.4 mln lbs of inedible products.    Total lard usage in the 1986/87 marketing season, whichbegan October 1, amounted to 125.2 mln lbs, vs 185.6 mln lbs inthe year-ago period. Reuter
ESTIMATED U.S. POULTRY SLAUGHTER The United States department ofagriculture estimated live poultry slaughter for the weekending April 1  as follows, in thousands -            Current      Previous Class      week         week Bro/Fry      92,552      95,563  Lt Fowl       2,840       3,354  Hvy Fowl        651         789  Check Total  96,043      99,706  Reuter
USDA REPORT ON CATTLE SLAUGHTER, MEAT PURCHASES The U.S. Agriculture Department saidan estimated 8,700 head of dairy cattle were slaughtered duringthe week ending March 13 as a result of the Whole Herd DairyBuyout program.    The cumulative total of cattle slaughtered under theprogram from April 1 through March 13 is estimated at 1,032,300head, it said.    Cumulative meat purchases through March 27 total376,897,330 lbs, the department said.    Dairy cattle reported for export under the program for theperiod April 1 through March 27 totaled an estimated 55,055head, the department said.    Live cattle exports are in addition to the meat purchaserequirements, the department said. Reuter
EXOTIC NEWCASTLE DISEASE IN MD/NEW YORK-USDA Exotic Newcastle, a highly contagiousdisease of pet birds and poultry, has been confirmed in twopet-bird dealer facilities in Maryland, and New York, the U.S.Agriculture Department said.    The department said no domestic poultry are involved in theoutbreak.    State quarantines have been placed on the two facilities,in Hunt Valley, Maryland, and Schenectady, New York.    The most serious U.S. outbreak of the disease occurred in1971-73 in southern California, where the disease spread frominfected pet birds to a dense poultry population and nearly 12mln birds, mostly laying hens, were destroyed at a cost of 56mln dlrs, the department said. Reuter
BRAZIL TO EXPORT POULTRY, MEAT TO IRAQ FOR OIL Brazil will export 6,000 tonnesof poultry and 10,000 tonnes of frozen meat to Iraq in exchangefor oil, Petrobras Commercial Director Carlos Sant'Anna said.    Brazil has a barter deal with Iraq and currently imports215,000 barrels per day of oil, of which 170,000 bpd are paidfor with exports of Brazilian goods to that country. Reuter
LYNG SETS TOUGH U.S. STANCE WITH JAPAN ON BEEF U.S. Agriculture Secretary RichardLyng warned Japan that the failure to remove a longstanding import quota on Japanese beef might spark a protectionistresponse in the United States.    "Given the protectionist mood in the Congress and thecountry, if I were a leader in Japan I would certainly be veryconcerned...and the failure to remove it (the beef quota) mightbe very serious," Lyng told a group of U.S cattlemen.    Lyng said he and Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter,during a visit to Japan later this month, will demand "totalelimination" of the beef import quota by April 1988.    The current dispute with Japan over semiconductor maystrengthen the U.S. stance in farm trade negotiations, Lyngsaid, because Japan does not want a trade war with the U.S.    Lyng dismissed recent statements in Tokyo that Japan mightretaliate against U.S. products as a result of thesemiconductor dispute.    "They (Japan) aren't going to pick a fight with us," Lyngsaid, adding that with its huge bilateral trade surplus Japanhas more to lose in a trade war than the United States.    Lyng told the U.S. cattlemen that the quota on Japanesebeef imports does not allow consumers there an adequate choicein food purchases.    He said in addition to beef, the U.S. will press foreliminiation of import barriers on Japan's citrus and rice aswell.    Lyng noted that Japan is the largest buyer of U.S. farmproducts, principally grains and soybeans. Reuter
LYNG DEFENDS U.S. MEAT INSPECTION SYSTEM U.S. Agriculture Secretary RichardLyng, reacting to recent criticism of U.S. meat inspection,defended the program saying the United States has the bestinspection system in the world.    Speaking to representatives of the U.S. NationalCattlemen's Association, NCA, Lyng attacked what he calledrecent "terribly biased" press reports critical of USDA poultryinspection. He cited a report on CBS "60 Minutes" whichcriticized USDA salmonella detection in poultry.    "I know we have the finest meat and poultry inspectionsystem in the world," Lyng told the cattlemen.    Lyng said USDA makes every effort to minimize the levels ofsalmonella in poultry, but added "the total elimination ofharmful bacteria is virtually impossible in this world." Reuter
JAPAN/U.S. AGRICULTURE TALKS SET FOR APRIL 17, 20 Agriculture Minister Mutsuki Kato said hewill meet U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng here on April17 and 20 to discuss bilateral farm trade issues. Lyng willvisit Tokyo from April 16 to 27.    Kato told reporters after a cabinet meeting all topics ofconcern to the U.S. Will be discussed, such as trade in beefand oranges and import controls on farm products. He saidShintaro Abe, the ruling Liberal Democratic Party's executivecouncil chairman, would propose some unspecified measures inresponse to demands to ease import controls on U.S. Farmproducts. Kato declined to give any details. REUTER
JAPAN'S LIPC TO BUY BEEF ON APRIL 23 Japan's Livestock Industry Promotion Corp(LIPC) said that on April 28 it will import 7,515 tonnes ofbeef for the first half of the 1987 fiscal year started onApril 1 under the simultaneous buy and sell tender system,against 6,813 a year ago.    The system calls on the agency to buy beef from tradinghouses and simultaneously sell it to users in one tender. Thetender quota in April-September is 10 pct of the agency's beefimport share. Japan's beef import quota in 1987/88 was set at93,000 tonnes against 85,000 for the same period in 1986/87. REUTER
IRAQ CCC CREDIT GUARANTEES SWITCHED - USDA The Commodity Credit Corporation(CCC) has transferred 21.0 mln dlrs in credit guaranteespreviously earmarked for sales of U.S. corn and 5.0 mln dlrsfor sales of oilseeds to increase available coverage on salesof U.S. poultry meat to Iraq, the U.S. Agriculture Departmentsaid.    The department said the action was taken at the request ofIraq's State Trade Organization for Grains and Foodstuffs.    The guarantee line for sales of corn has been reduced from78.0 mln dlrs to 57.0 mln and the line for oilseeds from 5.0mln dlrs to zero.    The guarantee line for sales of frozen poultry has beenincreased from 30.0 mln dlrs to 56.0 mln dlrs, USDA said. Reuter
JAPAN MINISTRY SAYS OPEN FARM TRADE WOULD HIT U.S. Japan's Agriculture Ministry, angered byU.S. Demands that Japan open its farm products market, willtell U.S. Officials at talks later this month thatliberalisation would harm existing U.S. Farm exports to Japan,a senior ministry official said.    "Imports from the U.S. Would drop due to active sales drivesby other suppliers," the official, who declined to be named,said. "Japan is the largest customer for U.S. Farm products andit is not reasonable for the U.S. To demand Japan liberaliseits farm import market," he said.    Agriculture Minister Mutsuki Kato has said if the U.S.Insists Japan open its protected rice market it will also openits wheat market, where volume and origin are regulated toprotect local farmers.    Australia and Canada could then increase their wheatexports as they are more competitive than the U.S., He said.End-users would also buy other origins, grain traders said.    U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng, who is due tovisit Japan for talks between April 16-27, has said he will askJapan to offer a share of its rice market to U.S. Suppliers andremove quotas on U.S. Beef and citrus imports.    Other countries are already cutting into the U.S. Marketshare here. Australia, the largest beef supplier to Japan, hasbeen trying to boost exports prior to the expiry of a four-yearbeef accord next March 31.    Imports of U.S. Corn have fallen due to increased salesfrom China and South America, while Japanese soybean importsfrom Brazil are expected to rise sharply this year, althoughthe U.S. Will remain the largest supplier.    U.S. Feedgrain sales will also drop if Japan opens up itsbeef imports, since Japan depends almost entirely on feedgrainimports, mainly from the U.S., Japanese officials said.    An indication of the U.S. Position came last December whenUnder Secretary of Agriculture Daniel Amstutz said Japan hasthe potential to provide one of the largest boosts to U.S.Agricultural exports, with the beef market alone representingsome one billion dlrs in new business.    The U.S. Has also asked the General Agreement on Tariffsand Trade to investigate the legality of Japanese importcontrols on 12 other farm products, including fruit juices,purees and pulp, tomato juice, ketchup and sauce, peanuts,prepared beef products and miscellaneous beans.    To help calm heated trade relations with the U.S., Japan'stop business group Keidanren has urged the government to removeresidual import restrictions on agricultural products.    But Agriculture Minister Kato has ruled out any emotionalreaction, and the senior ministry official said the farm issueshould not become a scapegoat for trade pressure in theindustrial sector.    "Japan is the largest buyer of U.S. Farm products, and theseissues should not be discussed on the same table," the officialsaid. REUTER
USDA TO PROPOSE FOREIGN MEAT INSPECTION RULE The U.S. Agriculture Department ispreparing a proposal that would require all foreign meatproducts to be inspected at their point of arrival in theUnited States, a USDA official said.    Donald Houston, administrator of USDA's Food Safety andInspection Service, FSIS, told a House Agriculture subcommitteeUSDA was developing a proposed change in regulations that wouldput an end to the current practice of permitting foreign meatproducts to be unloaded at one port and inspected at anotherport.    Houston said the requirement would be phased in overseveral years to "avoid disruptions and economic hardship." Reuter
U.S. MEAT, POULTRY INSPECTION CALLED FAULTY The U.S. meat and poultry inspectionprograms are incapable of protecting consumers fromcontaminated products, groups representing inspectors andconsumers charged.    "The whole trend of inspection for the last 10 years hasbeen to corrupt and to degrade the system where today thepublic is at constant risk to contaminated and adulteratedmeat," Kenneth Blaylock, president of the American Federation ofGovernment Employees, told a House Agriculture subcommittee.    "The American consumer has little reason to feel confidentabout the safety of meat and poultry being offered to himtoday," said Rodney Leonard, executive director of the CommunityNutrition Institute.    "Company management is less concerned about the risk tohealth than about raising plant output and company profits,"Leonard told a hearing of the House Agriculture Subcommittee onLivestock, Dairy and Poultry.    Kenneth Morrison, staff associate at the GovernmentAccountability Project, said inspectors consistently discloseviolations of federal law, demonstrating a "serious breakdown inthe entire inspection system."    Morrison told of chicken fat for flavoring beingcontaminated by "intestines dragging in a water trough used toflush away the condemned product, fecal material, human spit,chewing gum and paper towels used by plant employees to blowtheir noses."    Donald Houston, administrator of the U.S. AgricultureDepartment's Food Safety and Inspection Service, FSIS, defendedthe government's program, calling it "one of the most respectedpublic health programs in the world."    FSIS inspects an estimated 127 mln head of cattle and 4.5billion chicken and turkeys every year.    Houston said inspection programs have kept pace withchange, but conceded that the danger of chemical residues inthe meat and poultry supply has increased.    He also said that, although he was confident the bacteriumsalmonella eventually could be eradicated, it would take timeand much money to contain the growing problem.    Salmonella, which in extreme cases can cause death, isfound in approximately 37 pct of U.S. broilers, 12 pct of rawpork and three to five pct of raw beef, Houston said.    The number of reported cases has doubled over the past 20years, he said, to 40,000 cases annually.    "We certainly really have not found an effective means ofturning this disease around," said Rep. James Olin (D-Va.)    The National Research Council recommended in 1985 that FSISintensify efforts to develop rapid diagnostic procedures fordetecting microoganisms.    But the meat and poultry industries have said such controlswould cost too much.    "Hopefully we will not overreact by installing unnecessarilycomplicated procedures that may become obstacles to the realgoal of providing an increasingly safer, more nutritious andeconomical meat supply for consumers," Stanley Emerling,executive vice president of the National Association of MeatPurveyors, said.    Blaylock, speaking on behalf of food inspectors, said a newprogram allowing elimination of USDA inspection functions atcertain plants "voids the law in letter and spirit, and must berepealed or we will see rising consumer fraud and an epidemicof death and illness for which there will be no prevention norlegal recourse."    Subcommittee Chairman Charles Stenholm (D-Tex.) said thepanel would hold a hearing on salmonella June 2. Reuter
MEXICAN CATTLE IMPORTS TO BE BRANDED - USDA All steers imported into the UnitedStates from Mexico must now be branded with the letter M on theright jaw, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.    In its World Production and Trade Report, the departmentsaid the branding is necessary to improve surveillance forbovine tuberculosis because it provides a permanent way toidentify Mexican steers.    The requirement is not expected to affect the number ofMexican steers imported into the United States and the brandwill be applied before the animals arrive at U.S. ports ofentry.    Last November, the Mexican Government authorized an exportquota of nearly 1.1 mln head of live cattle for the 1986/87season (Aug-July), most of which goes to the United States. Reuter
ARGENTINE CATTLE MARKET REPORT ABOUT 3,314 HEAD OF CATTLE WEREAUCTIONED IN LINIERS CATTLE MARKET, AGAINST 13,952 ON WEDNESDAYAND 9,217 LAST THURSDAY, TRADE SOURCES SAID.    MAXIMUN PRICES, IN AUSTRALES PER KILO, WITH DOLLAREQUIVALENT IN BRACKETS, INCLUDED:                               TODAY     WEDNESDAY    STEERS OVER 480 KILOS   1.02(0.658) 1.015(0.654)    STEERS 460 TO 480 KILOS 1.05(0.677) 1.032(0.665)    COWS FOR CANNING        0.56(0.361) 0.56 (0.361) REUTER
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES Chicago Mercantile Exchange floortraders and commission house representatives are guesstimatingtoday's hog slaughter at about 287,000 to 295,000 head versus292,000 week ago and 322,000 a year ago.    Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 124,000 to128,000 head versus 129,000 week ago and 134,000 a year ago. Reuter
EASTERN DISTRIBUTIVE BEEF TRADE WEEKLY - USDA Demand good for moderatesupplies of most beef cuts, However, limited interest noted fortenderloins/flank steaks. Yield grade 2-3 beef cuts, fabricateditems, vacuum packed.                          LBS    CHOICE ROUND CUTS -steady/up 11.00                  160 round, part bnls     50-85  few 137 161 round, bnls          42-80  few 147 161 diamond cut          49-85  few 149 167 knuckle               8-15  few 148 167a knuckle, peeled      8-15  few 163 168 top inside round     14-26  165-175 170 bottom gooseneck rnd 18-33  131-135 More
DISEASE PUTS ZIMBABWE BEEF EXPORTS IN JEOPARDY Zimbabwe's beef exports to the EuropeanCommunity (EC), potentially worth 70 mln Zimbabwean dlrs thisyear, may be jeopardised by an outbreak of foot and mouthdisease in southwestern Matabeleland, industry sources said.    The country has temporarily suspended beef exports to theEC because of the outbreak and awaits a decision from the ECveterinary committee, which is considering a formal ban.    The outbreak in the country's main ranching province hasalready led neighbouring beef-producing Botswana and Zambia tobar beef and dairy imports from Zimbabwe, threatening the dairyindustry with a loss of at least one mln dlrs in exportrevenue.    "The situation is still uncertain at the moment. Normallywhen an outbreak occurs there is an automatic suspension ofbeef exports," one industry source said yesterday.     Commenting on EC policy, he explained, "Depending on theseriousness of the outbreak the (veterinary) committee thendecides on three options, allowing us to continue exportingbeef from disease-free areas, clamping a three-month suspensionon exports or banning us from exporting for a year. We arestill awaiting their decision," he added, asking not to beidentified.    Zimbabwe was granted an export quota of 8,100 tonnes ofhigh-grade beef to EC markets in 1985 after the country hadspent millions of dollars erecting disease-control fences andupgrading abattoirs to meet stringent EC rules.    Should the EC ban Zimbabwean exports, the country will beforced to sell its beef on glutted world beef markets at lowprices, the source said. Projected earnings from beef salescould fall about 23 mln dlrs as a result, he said. Reuter
U.S. DOLLAR LOSSES PROPEL BROAD COMMODITY GAINS Commodities from gold to grains tocotton posted solid gains in a flurry of buying today as lossesin the U.S. dollar and rising interest rates kindled fears ofinflation and economic instability.    Gains were most pronounced on the Commodity Exchange in NewYork, where gold jumped 12.40 dlrs and closed at 436.50 dlrs atroy ounce, and silver 22.5 cents to 6.86 dlrs a troy ounce.    A key factor behind the advance was anticipation thatinflation will be the only way for the major industrial nationsto halt the slide in the value of the U.S. dollar, said SteveChronowitz, director of commodity research with Smith Barney,Harris Upham and Co., in New York.    The dollar tumbled one day after top finance officials fromthe seven largest industrial nations reaffirmed theircommitment to support its value, and despite reports ofintervention by the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank, traders said.    Traders said it appears that the industrial nations, knownas the Group of Seven, lack the ability to change the long-termdirection of the currency markets.    "Maybe they have some ideas or plans," said Chronowitz. "Ifthey do, it's not evident."    "It looks like there's no cure but to let the free markettake values to where they should be.    "One way or another, we will force our major tradingpartners to stimulate their economies," as a measure to correctthe mounting U.S. trade deficit, Chronowitz said.    "I think the markets believe, and have believed for a longtime, that the only recourse is to reflate at some point. It'sgoing to be a long and tedious process, but that's what'shappening," he said.    The falling value of the dollar makes U.S. commoditiescheaper for foreign buyers, stimulating demand.    At the same time, traders who are holding stocks and bondssaw the value of their investments falling and many are turningto commodities such as precious metals as a hedge, said MartyMcNeill, a metals analyst in New York with the trading house ofDominick and Dominick.    The reaction in the metal markets reverberated throughoutthe commodities markets, as grains, livestock, and cottonposted broad gains.    Traders at the Chicago Board of Trade said attention in thegrain markets has shifted from concern about burdensomesupplies to the outlook that a lower dollar will stimulateexport demand.    After the close of trading, the Agriculture Departmentraised its estimate for grain imports by the Soviet Union bytwo mln tonnes from the month-earlier report.    Live hogs and frozen pork bellies posted sharp gains on theChicago Mercantile Exchange, while live cattle were moderatelyhigher.    Analysts said several factors boosted hog prices. They saidhogs haven't been making the weight gains that are normal atthis time of year, and farmers have been too busy with fieldwork to market animals. Reuter
U.S. FEEDER STEER PRICE The U.S. Feeder Steer Price, or USFSP,as posted by the CME is calculated by Cattle Fax and representsthe price used for cash settlement of the CME Feeder Cattlecontract.    The USFSP is a seven-calendar-day average of feeder steerprices from 27 states, based on auction and direct countrysales for feeder steers that weigh between 600 and 800 lbs andare estimated to grade between 60 and 80 pct choice when fed toslaughter weight.    April 9         Previous quote    70.03             69.87 Reuter
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES Chicago Mercantile Exchange floortraders and commission house representatives are guesstimatingtoday's hog slaughter at about 280,000 to 300,000 head versus294,000 week ago and 303,000 a year ago.    Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 120,000 to126,000 head versus 120,000 week ago and 124,000 a year ago. Reuter
CCC ACCEPTS BONUS ON CATTLE TO CANARY ISLANDS The Commodity Credit Corporation(CCC) has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the saleof 2,750 head of dairy cattle to the Canary Islands, the U.S.Agriculture Department said.    The cattle are for delivery May, 1987-October, 1988, itsaid.    The bonus was 1,379.00 dlrs per head and was made toHolstein-Friesian, Inc and will be paid in the form ofcommodities from the CCC inventory.    An additional 175 headed of dairy cattle for stillavailable to the Canary Islands under the Export EnhancementProgram initiative announced July 28, 1986, it said. Reuter
SWIFT TO SELL SOUTH DAKOTA PORK PLANT Swift Independent Packing Co said itagreed in principle to sell its Huron, South Dakota, pork plantto Huron Dressed Beef, for undisclosed terms.    Completion of the proposed transaction is subject toHuron's ability to hire an experienced work force atcompetitive rates, and receive government approval of thepurchase and operation of the plant, Swift said. Reuter
SWIFT <SFTPF> TO SELL SOUTH DAKOTA PORK PLANT Swift Independent Packing Co said itagreed in principle to sell its Huron, South Dakota pork plantto Huron Dressed Beef, for undisclosed terms.    Completion of the proposed transaction is subject toHuron's ability to hire an experienced work force atcompetitive rates, and receive government approval of thepurchase and operation of the plant, Swift said. Reuter
EC MEAT DIRECTIVE DEADLINE SEEN FLEXIBLE U.S. officials said they held outlittle hope the European Community, EC, would withdraw acontroversial meat inspection requirement, due to go intoeffect April 30 and which U.S. meat producers claim will cutoff their exports.    But the officials said they expect the EC to allow U.S.plants to continue shipping meat through the end of the yearprovided they submit a plant improvement program with the U.S.Agriculture Department.    The EC's so-called Third Country Meat Directive willrequire foreign meat processing plants to comply fully with ECinspection standards beginning April 30.    The U.S. meat industry has prepared a petition requestingthe Reagan administration to retaliate against the EC rule.    At issue are U.S. meat exports to the EC valued at 132 mlndlrs in 1985.    The EC rule would require all U.S. plants to make changesin their inspection methods, ranging from veterinary staffingto use of wood.    Last December, the EC determined that only one U.S. cattle,one hog and one sheep slaughtering facility could be approvedwithout further review. USDA would have to certify that theplants had corrected the deficiencies.    All remaining plants with a history or potential ofshipping to the EC -- totaling nearly 400 -- would require moresignificant changes in plant constructions or procedures beforefurther EC review.    Robert Hibbert, general counsel for the American MeatInstitute, said the meat industry expected to submit a formaltrade retaliation petition by April 30.    An interagency committee is reviewing the industry's draftpetition.    An official at the U.S. Trade Representative's Office saidU.S. officials continued to press the EC to withdraw the rule,but that "the chances of that are not too good at this time."    However, there is the "expectation" in U.S. government andmeat industry circles that the EC will continue to allowshipments, at least through the end of the calendar year, fromU.S. plants that submit to USDA a plan on how they will bringtheir operations into conformity with the EC regulation, theUSTR official said. Reuter
LYNG WARNS U.S. TRADE SITUATION IS EXPLOSIVE (RPT) U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyngsaid Japanese government officials do not seem to understandthat protectionist sentiment in the U.S. Could lead to anexplosive situation and protectionist legislation.    Speaking to the National Press Club of Japan, Lyng saidprotectionist sentiment in the U.S. Has increased alarminglyduring the last six months.    "It is a radically changed situation and is very explosive.We are on the verge of some very harsh mandatory retaliatorylaws which would have very serious consequences for othercountries, especially Japan," Lyng told reporters.    Lyng's comments about protectionist trade legislationappeared to be a reference to the so-called Gephardt provision,requiring retaliation against countries which have tradesurpluses with the U.S., Trade analysts said.    U.S. House majority leader Thomas Foley, a WashingtonDemocrat, yesterday predicted during a visit here that theGephardt provision will be approved by the House when tradelegislation is taken up later this month.    Senior Japanese officials do not seem to perceive thevolatility of the situation in the U.S., Where Congress isincreasingly unpredictable, he said.    "The purpose of this trip is to emphasise the fact thatpatience is beginning to be very much frayed in Washington. Icannot emphasise that enough," Lyng said.    In talks with Japanese Agriculture Minister Mutsuki Katoyesterday, Lyng and Trade representative Clayton Yeutter askedJapan to begin negotiations on its rice policy and end importquotas on beef and citrus.    Lyng said he was disappointed Kato rejected the U.S.Request but hoped it would not lead to a protectionist responsein Congress, where legislation on rice retaliation has beenintroduced in both the House and Senate.    Lyng said the U.S. Is dependent on Japan as a market forexports because Japan has been the largest buyer of U.S. Farmproducts since 1964, especially grains.    He said the U.S. Understands Japan, with a limited landarea, is concerned about maintaining some level ofself-sufficiency in food for national security reasons.    But he argued the freeing of farm product imports would notnecessarily weaken Japanese agriculture.    Lyng pledged the U.S. Will never again embargo shipments offarm products as it did in 1973. REUTER
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES Chicago Mercantile Exchange floortraders and commission house representatives are guesstimatingtoday's hog slaughter at about 275,000 to 293,000 head versus284,000 week ago and 320,000 a year ago.    Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 122,000 to128,000 head versus 128,000 week ago and 138,000 a year ago. Reuter
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES Chicago Mercantile Exchange floortraders and commission house representatives are guesstimatingtoday's hog slaughter at about 280,000 to 287,000 head versus257,000 week ago and 311,000 a year ago.    Saturday's hog slaughter is guesstimated at about 40,000 to55,000 head.    Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 121,000 to126,000 head versus 128,000 week ago and 136,000 a year ago.    Saturday's cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 19,000to 35,000 head. Reuter
CATTLE ON FEED REPORT CALLED NEGATIVE Chicago Mercantile Exchange floortraders' immediate comments on the 13-state USDA quarterlycattle on feed report were negative.    Traders said that placements on feed and total on-feednumbers were at the high end of expectations and will likelyweigh on futures tomorrow. Reuter
USDA REPORTS SEEN NEGATIVE TO LIVESTOCK FUTURES Commission house livestock analystsagreed with Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders incalling today's USDA 13-state quarterly cattle on feed reportand cold storage report for pork bellies negative.    June live cattle futures are called 0.20 to 0.50 cent loweron Monday and back months of cattle are expected 0.50 to 1.00cent lower. Pork bellies are expected 0.50 to 1.00 cent or morelower, the analysts said.    Disappointment was voiced over the placement and total onfeed figures in the cattle report. Both the quarterly sectionand monthly 7-state part showed the amount placed on feed andon feed numbers at the high end of expectations.    The other disappearance figure of only three pct above ayear ago in the 7-state section was also vieved as negative.Most of the early guesses predicted a much larger number fordeath loss following the two winter snow storms that struck thewest in late March, they said.    However, weight groupings were friendly to the nearbyfutures and should prompt some bull spreading on the decline,they said.    William Arndt from Dean Witter noted that the 900 to 1,100lb steers and 700 to 900 lb heifers were at 94 pct of a yearago and should lend some support to June futures. However, 700to 900 lb steers at 119 pct will weigh on August, he said.    "The big reduction in cattle weighing over 900 lbs shouldbe friendly to the market for at least the next 30 to 60 days,"AGE Clearing analyst Jerry Abbenhaus said.    Movement of bellies into frozen storage was at the high endof expectations and should weigh on futures tomorrow,especially as futures prices ended weak today, they said.    Other parts of the cold storage report were also viewed asnegative to livestock and meat futures.    "We have a lot of poultry in storage. Even though we havesmaller pork supplies, the decline is not enough to offset theincreases in poultry," Shearson Lehman analyst Chuck Levittsaid. Also, there is more beef in storage than last year andthis was achieved on smaller production. Reuter
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES Chicago Mercantile Exchange floortraders and commission house representatives are guesstimatingtoday's hog slaughter at about 275,000 to 285,000 head versus157,000 week ago and 305,000 a year ago.    Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 120,000 to126,000 head versus 109,000 week ago and 133,000 a year ago. Reuter
U.S. BEEF, CITRUS TALKS WITH JAPAN SEEN TOUGH The Reagan administration is expected toface tough resistance from Japan and from some entrenched U.S.interests, if it hopes to succeed in forcing Japan to end beefand citrus import controls by April, 1988, U.S. and Japaneseofficials said.    Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng and Trade RepresentativeClayton Yeutter took a hardline stance on beef and citrus intalks here last week, insisting that the quotas be abandoned byApril, 1988.    But that stance will be difficult to maintain because Japanwill resist the pressure fiercely and because some U.S.suppliers of those commodities have an interest in maintainingthe quotas, U.S. and Japanese officials told Reuters.    Twice in the past, the United States has negotiated withJapan on beef and citrus import quotas -- during the Tokyoround of multilateral trade negotiations in 1978, and inbilateral talks in 1984.    Each time the U.S. demanded an end to the quotas at theoutset but ultimately accepted substantial increases instead.The current agreement calls for an increase in high qualitybeef imports to 58,400 tonnes in fiscal 1987, oranges to126,000 tonnes and orange juice to 8,500 tonnes.    Lyng has said repeatedly that this time the United Stateswill not settle for simple increases in the quotas. Japan hasbeen given plenty of time to reform its agricultural supportsystem and the quotas must be scrapped, Lyng said.    Japanese officials want to begin informal talks on beef andcitrus in August or September in Hawaii, sources said.    If the U.S. intends to press its tough stance, and Japan,as expected rejects the demands, the issue may then be put tothe General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade for settlement,which would mean prolonging the friction beyond the April, 1988deadline set by the U.S., officials said.    In interviews here, Japanese officials insist that on beefthey will not liberalize imports, regardless of the U.S.pressure, because the Japanese beef industry is not competitiveand would be damaged by freer trade.    Most Japanese beef production still tends to be on smallfarms which Japanese officials said must be protected fromcheap imports by use of the quota system.    Furthermore, while the U.S. National Cattlemen'sAssociation is strongly supporting the tough administrationposition, some U.S. meat exporters and packers are ambivalent.    This is because to some U.S. exporters and packers beefexports to Japan under the quota system are a steady, reliablebusiness managed by a quasi-government Japan Livestock IndustryPromotion Corporation. Under quotas the U.S. share of Japan'sbeef market has expanded at the expense of Australia.    In the absence of quotas, some U.S. suppliers are concernedthe U.S. share might decline and exporting to Japan wouldbecome a riskier business, meat industry sources said.    Major U.S meat industry leaders will meet in Washingtonnext week, including cattlemen, processors and exporters, in aneffort to reach an industry-wide consensus toward Japan.    The citrus industry also appears split on the quota issue.California's Sunkist, the largest U.S. supplier of oranges toJapan, has expressed reservations about eliminating quotas.    A representative of Sunkist said the cooperative isconcerned that in the absence of quotas, lower quality orangesfrom Israel and South Africa might be competitive in Japan.    Ironically, some Japanese officials hinted that freshoranges may be a product on which imports could be freed with aminimum of impact on Japanese mandarin orange production.    This is because U.S. oranges do not directly compete withsmaller Japanese mandarins, officials said. But Japan wants tomaintain quotas on orange juice because it fears imported juicetastes better and would displace Japanese mandarin orangejuice, they said.    One scenario mentioned by both U.S. and Japanese officialsis that Tokyo may try to blunt the tough administration stanceby offering to scrap the quota on fresh oranges in return forU.S. acceptance of increases in beef and juice quotas.    Lyng has acknowledged that liberalization of beef andcitrus imports is a difficult objective, but he insisted duringthe week-long tour here that it is a high priority on theU.S./Japan agriculture agenda-- more important than the riceissue which received most of the attention.    Asked about the ambivalence of some in U.S. agribusiness,Lyng noted some interests on both the U.S. and Japanese sidehave benefited from quotas but this will not stop theadministration from pressing for liberalization.    And Lyng said the administration believes it can marshallmore support for eliminating the quotas now than ever before,because of concern about Japan's rising trade surplus.    "We're coming at this one (beef and citrus negotiation)with a much stronger view coming out of Washington. The timeshave changed. The trade balance is much worse," Lyng said. Reuter
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES Chicago Mercantile Exchange floortraders and commission house representatives are guesstimatingtoday's hog slaughter at about 275,000 to 285,000 head versus283,000 week ago and 312,000 a year ago.    Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 125,000 to128,000 head versus 124,000 week ago and 136,000 a year ago. Reuter
USDA PROGRAM TO FIGHT SCREWWORMS IN LIVESTOCK Sterile screwworm flies will bereleased this weekend in Miami, Florida, and Albuquerque, NewMexico, to combat a potential outbreak of screwworms, a seriouspest of livestock, the Agriculture Department said.    The action follows identification April 21 of screwwormlarvae in a hunting dog which passed through airports in Miamiand Albuquerque while being returned to the United States fromVenezuela, it said.    Sexually sterilized screwworm flies will be released twicea week for six weeks in an effort to eradicate any breedingpopulations of the flies.    Adult femals usually mate only once in their lifetime andeggs resulting from matings between sterile and fertile flieswill not hatch, thus ending the life cycle, it said. Reuter
NY MEAT CUTTERS UNION REJECTS LATEST OFFER Members of local 174 of the United Foodand Commercial Workers (UFCW) union, representing 1,900 meatcutters in New York city, yesterday rejected the latestmanagement offer on a new contract.    "Members rejected the latest offer by a 2 to 1 margin," BobWilson, executive officer of local 174 said. But workers havebeen asked to remain on the job while negotiations continue.    The union has been in negotiations with the Greater NewYork Association of Meat and Poultry Dealers, a group of meatwholesalers and distributors. The contract expired April 26 andthe latest management offer sought "give backs" in holiday andsick leave which the membership rejected, Wilson said. Reuter
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES Chicago Mercantile Exchange floortraders and commission house representatives are guesstimatingtoday's hog slaughter at about 250,000 to 270,000 head versus249,000 week ago and 261,000 a year ago.    Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 126,000 to131,000 head versus 126,000 week ago and 131,000 a year ago. Reuter
JAPAN 1986/87 COMPOUND FEED OUTPUT UP 2.3 PCT Japanese compound feed output rose 2.3 pctto 25.80 mln tonnes in 1986/87 ended March 31 from 25.23 mln ayear earlier, the Agriculture Ministry said.    The marginal rise reflected slight growth in demand forpoultry raising and a moderate increase in demand for beefcattle raising, Ministry officials said.    Compound feed sales totalled 26.01 mln tonnes in 1986/87against 25.40 mln a year ago, while end-March stocks were217,554 tonnes against 224,101.    Corn use in feed output in 1986/87 rose to 11.71 mln tonnesfrom 11.02 mln a year earlier due to low import prices.    The officials said corn imports rose because the worldsurplus and the yen's strength against the dollar reducedChicago prices. The corn compounding ratio rose to 45.2 pct in1986/87 from 43.4 pct a year earlier.    Sorghum use rose marginally to 4.80 mln tonnes in 1986/87from 4.79 mln, but the compounding ratio fell to 18.5 pct from18.9 pct because of greater corn use. Higher import prices dueto poor harvests last year in major producing nations such asArgentina made feed makers reluctant to use sorghum.    Soybean meal use fell to 2.58 mln tonnes from 2.63 mln andthe compounding ratio declined to 10.0 pct from 10.3 pct.    The drop in soybean meal consumption resulted fromincreased use of cheaper rapeseed meal, the officials said.    Rapeseed consumption in 1986/87 was 563,889 tonnes against528,152 a year earlier. The compounding ratio rose to 2.2 pctfrom 2.1 pct. REUTER
U.S. REFUSES PARTS OF TWO AUSTRALIA BEEF CARGOES U.S. Agriculture Departmentinspectors have refused entry to parts of two lots ofAustralian beef because of pesticide residues, a spokeswomanfor the department said.    She said USDA has notified Australia, which assured it thatstricter controls would be implemented.    The Australian government had already imposed residuecontrols and it is believed the meat with the presticideresidues was already in the pipeline before the controls wereput in place, the spokeswoman said.    There have been five other cases of Australian meat whichhad residue levels above U.S. allowable limits this year, shesaid. Reuter
CANADA THREATENS BAN ON DANISH PIGMEAT IMPORTS Canada has threatened to stop importsof Danish pigmeat from July 14 after Canadian veterinaryinspectors approved only two of 33 slaughterhouses, a Danishagriculture ministry official told Reuters.    The Canadians postponed the original July 1 deadline at therequest of the European Commission, which Denmark approachedfor support.    Danish Foreign Minister Uffe Ellemann-Jensen said in aninterview with the daily Berlingske Tidende: "Denmark will notaccept a ban on Danish meat exports, and I am sure we can reachan understanding with the Canadians with the help of the EC."    Danish pigmeat exports to Canada were worth 106 mln crownsin 1986, while Canadian exports to the European Communitytotalled about 6.5 billion U.S. Dlrs.    Some Danish slaughterhouse officials expressed suspicionthat the Canadian action was in response to tightening up by ECveterinary inspectors on Canadian food exports to the EC.    But an official at the Canadian embassy in Copenhagen saidthe inspection of Danish slaughterhouses was based on ECregulations. "Canadian officials are very concerned about thetrade implications. We are holding active discussions with theEC and bilaterally," she added. REUTER
U.S. TAKES TOUGH STAND ON GATT FARM ISSUES The United States is prepared to "pull outall the stops" to defend its agricultural trade rights under theGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), U.S. Ambassadorto GATT Michael Samuels said.    Those rights are now being challenged by the EuropeanCommunity's (EC) agricultural support policies, he told aconference sponsored by the American Soybean Association.    He reiterated Washington's firm intention to retaliate ifthe EC goes ahead and bans imports of hormone-fed beef withoutthe issue being investigated by a GATT special committee.    The U.S. claims the EC directive, due to come into effecton January 1, threatens to cut 100 mln dlrs worth of U.S. meatshipments into the EC.    The U.S. also will oppose all EC efforts to impair U.S.trade via the EC oilseeds regime, which supports EC oilseedprices over the current market level and which may be extendedto include a hotly disputed oils and fats tax, Samuels said.    Reduction of trade-distorting world agricultural subsidies,an aim of most key participants in GATT multilateral tradenegotiations, "is meaningless if import barriers continue to beerected," Samuels said.    Samuels called the U.S. plan to eliminate world farmsubsidies by the year 2000, proposed at GATT in July, "visionary"and "very serious."  The EC and Japan have said it isunrealistic.    The EC Commission this month announced its draft proposalon farm trade reform, expected to be tabled at GATT formallynext week.    The EC scheme involves emergency measures to reducetensions in troubled surplus sectors of cereals and cerealssubstitutes, dairy and sugar. It also calls for reduction offarm subsidies.    The U.S. Is not opposed to short-term measures, as long asthey are directly linked to long-term commitments to end majortrade distortions, Samuels said.    Washington will review the EC proposal when it is formallysubmitted and respond to it officially then.    "We will consider its relation to the Punta del Estedeclaration to correct trade problems and expand market access,"the U.S. Ambassador said.    The U.S. can say no to the EC proposal if the EC ignoresthe U.S. plan when it tables its own proposal, he added.    The key difference between the two approaches is that theU.S. wants farm subsidies eliminated, while the EC is pushingonly for a reduction in farm suppports, Samuels said.    If the EC farm budget were protected by a subsidy freeze,there would be little incentive for the Community to work tocorrect the international trade situation, he added.    Samuels cited the animal hormones complaint, the ECoilseeds regime and an EC regulation concerning meat imports tothird countries as three crucial barriers to trade which theU.S. wants to see resolved under the auspices of GATT. Reuter
EC AGREES TRADE DEAL WITH ARGENTINA The European Community (EC) agreed atrade deal with Argentina designed to compensate the countryfollowing the entry of Spain and Portugal into the group, ECofficials said.    Under the deal agreed by EC foreign ministers, Argentinawill gain additional trading rights on a series of productsincluding meat, fish and cereals by-products.    But ministers failed to agree on new trade deals withCanada and Japan and are due to study these again, theofficials said.    The deal with Argentina was agreed by a majority of ECstates after West Germany withdrew objections to increasedquotas for Argentina on high-quality beef.    Ireland and France continued to oppose the deal on meat,saying that the main dispute was over sales of cerealssubstitutes, but they were outvoted by the other states, theofficials said. Under the deal, Argentina will benefit fromimproved quotas on exports of beef to the EC. In particular thequota on high-quality Hilton beef will be raised by 4,500tonnes to 34,300 tonnes and quotas on frozen boneless beef willbe increased by 3,000 tonnes to 53,000 tonnes.    Argentina will also benefit from an additional quota of5,000 tonnes of frozen hake fillets at 10 pct duty and reducedlevies on 550,000 tonnes of wheat bran, the officials said.    The improved trade terms were offered after Argentina saidthat Spain and Portugal's entry into the EC affected theirexports of cereals substitutes to these two countries. Theyhave been negotiated under the rules of GATT (General Agreementon Tariffs and Trade).    But officials said ministers had been unable to resolveCanadian claims that its sales of certain fish to Spain hadbeen affected by the country's EC membership.    Officials said the EC had asked GATT to arbitrate on thefish dispute with Canada.    Ministers also decided to continue talks with Japan. The ECclaims that Spain and Portugal's entry into the group hasimproved trade conditions for Japan but has been unsatisfiedwith Japanese offers of compensation.    Japan's main offers were to improve inspection systems oncitrus fruits to aid EC exports, to improve tariffs for someother farm produce, to increase tariffs for leather footwearand to offer better trade terms for Spain and Portugal.    EC External Trade Commissioner Willy De Clercq toldjournalists: "We maintain our position that the (Japanese)concessions were not enough."    "We hope that there will be an improvement," he said. Reuter
WEST VIRGINIA FREE OF TWO MAJOR CATTLE DISEASES West Virginia has been declared freeof tuberculosis and brucellosis from its cattle population, theU.S. Agriculture Department said.    It said a state is recognized as tuberculosis-free if nocase of the disease is diagnosed for at least five years and ifthe state complies with the uniform methods and rules of thestate-federal cooperative eradication program.    To achieve brucellosis-free status, a state's cattlepopulation must remain uninfected for the previous 12 months.    There are 33 states, plus the U.S. Virgin Islands,classified as free of bovine tuberculosis and 24 states, plusPuerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, which have eradicatedbrucellosis. Only 20 states and the U.S. Virgin islands haveeradicated both diseases, it noted. Reuter
