CME SETS MAY 29 START FOR LUMBER FUTURES OPTIONS The Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME)board of governors announced today the options on Random Lengthlumber futures will begin trading on May 29.    The contract received Commodity Futures Trading Commission(CFTC) approval on January 21 after being submitted for reviewlast October 13.    Initially, only January, March and May delivery months willbe listed for trading. The size of the underlying futurescontract is 130,000 board feet. Regular trading hours for thecontract will be from 0900 to 1305 Central Time. However, onthe first day of trading the market will open at 1000.    On March 4 the CME board amended the contract to eliminateChristmas Eve expirations for the January option. Thisamendment has been submited to the CFTC, the CME said. reuter
OREGON LUMBER COMPANY TO SELL WOOD TO IRAQ A Portland-based woodproducts company has signed a 13 mln dlr contract with theIraqi government to supply finished softwood lumber to Iraq,Edward Niedermeyer, president of Niedermeyer-Martin Co saidyesterday.    Niedermeyer told the House Foreign Affairs sub-committee onInternational Economic Policy and Trade in Washington that thesales agreement contains an option that could make lumberexported worth more than 20 mln dlrs.    The delivery of about 8.0 mln dlrs worth of plywood, inaddition to lumber, hinges on whether the U.S. Department ofAgriculture will interpret plywood as an agricultural commodityunder the credit guarantee program, he said.    Niedermeyer said the government export credit guaranteeprogram (GSM-102) administered by the USDA was the key toopening the Iraqi market which up to now had been captured byScandinavian lumber producers.    "This is the first time we have been able to sell woodproducts in Iraq, he said. Without the USDA program it wouldnot have been possible. We hope this will lead to a long termexport market for U.S. lumber products."    He said the contract calls for supplying 21 mln board feetto 30 mln board feet of softwood lumber for housing,construction and furniture manufacturing. He estimated theprofit potential for his company on the sale at five to sixpct.    Niedermeyer spent two weeks in Baghdad negotiating the salelate last month and early March. He is a member of the UnitedStates-Iraq Business Forum, a non-profit group designed topromote commerce with Iraq.    The forum members include Westinghouse and GeneralElectric, but Niedermeyer's company is the only wood productsfirm on the membership roster. Reuter
U.S. SAYS CANADA COMPLYING WITH LUMBER PACT The Commerce Department said thatall Canadian firms had begun to pay an agreed to 15 pctsurcharge on softwood shipped to U.S. markets.    It made the statement after talks with Canadian officialsabout press reports and speculation in Canada that someexporters were not paying the charge.    Canada and the United States agreed last December to the 15pct charge, ending a lengthy trade dispute over allegedCanadian subsidies to Canada's softwood exporters.    Commerce officials would not say if they found any Canadiancompanies had been evading the charge, but that following thetalks they were convinced all exporters were complying with theagreement.    Undersecretary of Commerce Bruce Smart said "We aregratified to learn that companies in Canada have begun payingthe export charge on lumber."    He added the agreement was important to the health of theU.S. lumber industry and he intended to see that it was fullycarried out. reuter
 U.S. SAYS CANADA COMPLYING WITH LUMBER PACT The Commerce Department said allCanadian firms have begun to pay an agreed 15 pct surcharge onsoftwood shipped to U.S. markets.    It made the statement after talks with Canadian officialsabout rumors in Canada that some exporters were not paying thecharge.    Canada and the U.S. agreed last December to the 15 pctcharge, ending a lengthy trade dispute over alleged Canadiansubsidies to Canada's softwood exporters.    Commerce officials declined to say if any Canadiancompanies had been evading the charge, but said following thetalks they were convinced all exporters were complying with theagreement.    Undersecretary of Commerce Bruce Smart said "We aregratified to learn that companies in Canada have begun payingthe export charge on lumber."    He added the agreement was important to the health of theU.S. lumber industry and he intended to see that it was fullycarried out. reuter
CHAMPION <CHA> TO EXPAND ALBERTA MILL Champion International Corp, based inStamford, Conn., said it will expand its mill in Hinton,Alberta, at a cost of about 285 mln Canadian dlrs.    The expansion will double the facility's pulping operationto 424,000 short tons per year. The mill produces softwoodkraft pulp which is sold to other Champion facilities and onthe open market.    Champion said it estimates the project will be completed bythe end of 1989. Reuter
TROPICAL FOREST DEATH COULD SPARK NEW DEBT CRISIS The death of the world's tropical rainforests could trigger a new debt crisis and social andbiological disasters, scientists and ecologists involved withthe International Tropical Timber Organisation (ITTO) said.    At stake is the ability of developing nations, includingBrazil, Mexico and the Philippines, to service their debts andthe loss of trade worth hundreds of billions of dollars inimportant sectors such as agriculture and pharmaceuticals, theysaid.    The experts, gathering ahead of an ITTO meeting ofconsumers and producers near Tokyo next week, said the problemis already acute.    The Philippines offers a textbook case of the economicdangers. "For many third world nations, the loss of the forestis not just a loss of resources," said Delfin Ganapin, aPhilippine government consultant on environmental impact.    "In the 1960s we had 16 mln hectares of commercial forest,now we have one mln. We have only around 10 years of profitablelogging left. With a 26 billion dlr debt, the loss of loggingforeign exchange earnings is serious," he said.    About 14 mln Philippine people depend on upland areas thatare now denuded and farmers cannot grow crops.    Government security advisers say that as a direct result,the most likely source of revolution in the Philippines is inthe upland areas, said Ganapin.    Replanting is uneconomic and replanted tropical hardwoodshave less than a 50 pct chance of survival. There is no knownway to reproduce the wood, or the millions of species within.    "No replanting programme has been successful," said AlmyHafild from the Indonesian Network for Forest Conservation.    Ganapin said three billion dlrs would be needed in the nexttwo years alone to save five mln hectares of critically denudedland in the Philippines.    The experts say that without a major initiative from thedevelopment banks, the vicious circle will continue withcountries cutting more forest to help service short-term debtsat the cost of long-term insolvency.    Yet timber, a five billion dlr a year industry, is notnecessarily the most direct economic product of the forests,and nations must be educated in how best to "farm" them, saidPeter Kramer, World Wildlife Fund (WWF) conservation director.    There is a four billion dlr annual global trade in the endproducts of rattan, and Brazil nuts earn Brazil 16 mln dlrs ayear, he said.    U.S. Pharmacologist Norman Farnsworth has calculated that25 pct of all U.S. Prescriptions owe their active ingredientsto higher plants growing in the forests.    Deforestation would wipe out the chance of furtherdiscoveries and force major corporations to research, developand produce man-made substitutes, at a cost which scientistssay is incalculable.    By the year 2000, only 10 developing nations will still beexporting timber, from 33 currently, and their export earningswill drop from a 1980 peak of 6.8 billion dlrs to less than twobillion, a World Bank and U.N. Sponsored survey said.    Of the 20.3 billion dlrs advanced by the World Bank,Inter-American, African and Asian Development Banks in 1980-84,only 100 mln dlrs went to forestry projects, it said.    WWF statistics show half of the world's tropical forestshave vanished since the 1940s. Of 2,000 mln hectares remaining,up to 16 mln are destroyed each year by destructive loggingpractises and by local farmers. REUTER
TIMBER REALIZATION <TRX> TO SELL REMAINING ACRES Timber Realization Co said it hasagreed to sell its remaining 50,000 acres of timberlandproperty in Mississippi for about 11.3 mln dlrs in cash.    Timber Realization, a limited partnership formed to disposeof timberlands and related properties transferred to it by the<Masonite Corp>, said that when this sale is completed thepartnership will have received about 15.2 mln dlrs in cash andnotes from the sale of its properties since December 23, 1986.    The partnership said it will terminate before August 3,1987.    Prior to that date, the partnership said it expects to forma liquidating trust to provide for unresolved claims andliablities.    Timber Realization said the amount retained in that trustwill depend on its experience in resolving open items up to thetermination date, but it added it expects to retain asubstantial amount in the trust.    The partnership said it anticipates making a cashdistribution of an as yet undetermined amount to unitholders ator before the liquidation trust's funding date.    Reuter
USDA'S AMSTUTZ "SYMPATHETIC" TO WOOD CREDITS U.S. Agriculture UndersecretaryDaniel Amstutz said he was "totally sympathetic" with U.S. woodproducers' desire to have their exports eligible for governmentcredit guarantees.    But he told the Senate Appropriations Agriculturesubcommittee that including wood products in the department'sshort- or intermediate-term export guarantee programs wouldconflict with U.S. multilateral trade obligations.    Currently, U.S. wood products are not eligible forgovernment export credit guarantee because they are considered"manufactured products," Amstutz said.    He said USDA had devoted an "enormous amount" of time toconsidering making wood products eligible for the guaranteesand that Congress was considering a measure to do so. Reuter
USDA CORRECTS TURKEY CREDIT ANNOUNCEMENT The U.S. Agriculture Department saidan announcement by the department yesterday concerning 15.0 mlndlrs in additional credit guarantees for exports of U.S.commodities to Turkey contained two inaccuracies.    First, the USDA said its announcement should not have saidthat plywood was excluded from the additional three mln dlrs inGSM-102 credit guarantees for lumber.    The original announcement said the guarantees includedthree mln dlrs for lumber, except plywood.    Melvin Sims, USDA general sales manager, told Reuters hedid not anticipate any plywood would be included in the sales,but that "it's possible it would be."    Plywood in the past has not been eligible for GSM-102credit guarantees because it is considered by some to be amanufactured product. Members states of the Organization forEconomic Cooperation and Development have pledged not to offerconcessional credits on manufactured products, Sims said.    However, the Reagan administration is considering whetherto allow plywood sales to be covered by the credit guaranteeprogram, Sims said.    Second, the USDA announcement said 6.0 mln dlrs of apreviously announced 6.0-mln dlr line for tallow under GSM-102was available for both public and private sector importers.    In fact, the line of credit guarantees for tallow isavailable only for public sector importers, Walter Stern,Foreign Agricultural Service Turkey analyst, said. Reuter
PLYWOOD CREDITS EYED BY REAGAN ADMINISTRATION The Reagan administration is debatingwhether to provide government credit guarantees for the exportof plywood, a U.S. Agriculture Department official said.    As a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperationand Development, OECD, the United States has agreed not toprovide any concessional credits on the export of manufacturedproducts.    However, USDA General Sales Manager Melvin Sims toldReuters the administration is considering allowing USDA toprovide its first export credit guarantees for plywood on thegrounds it is not a manufactured product.    Sims said it was clear that wood products such asfurniture, tables and window frames would be consideredmanufactured goods and therefore ineligible for export creditguarantees. However, the case of plywood was less clear.    "As long as it's a basic material, we consider it still justa processed version of the basic agricultural commodity," Simssaid in a telephone interview.    Earlier today, USDA said that plywood was eligible under anexport credit guarantee offer for Turkey announced yesterday.In its original announcement yesterday, USDA had said the offerincluded three mln dlrs for the export of lumber, excludingplywood. However, Sims said he did not expect any plywoodexports to be including under the lumber guarantee offer. Reuter
INDONESIAN COMMODITY EXCHANGE MAY EXPAND The Indonesian Commodity Exchange islikely to start trading in at least one new commodity, andpossibly two, during calendar 1987, exchange chairman PaianNainggolan said.    He told Reuters in a telephone interview that trading inpalm oil, sawn timber, pepper or tobacco was being considered.    Trading in either crude palm oil (CPO) or refined palm oilmay also be introduced. But he said the question was stillbeing considered by Trade Minister Rachmat Saleh and nodecision on when to go ahead had been made.    The fledgling exchange currently trades coffee and rubberphysicals on an open outcry system four days a week.    "Several factors make us move cautiously," Nainggolan said."We want to move slowly and safely so that we do not make amistake and undermine confidence in the exchange."    Physical rubber trading was launched in 1985, with coffeeadded in January 1986. Rubber contracts are traded FOB, up tofive months forward. Robusta coffee grades four and five aretraded for prompt delivery and up to five months forward,exchange officials said.    The trade ministry and exchange board are considering theintroduction of futures trading later for rubber, but oneofficial said a feasibility study was needed first. Nodecisions are likely until after Indonesia's elections on April23, traders said.    Trade Minister Saleh said on Monday that Indonesia, as theworld's second largest producer of natural rubber, shouldexpand its rubber marketing effort and he hoped development ofthe exchange would help this.    Nainggolan said that the exchange was trying to boostoverseas interest by building up contacts with end-users.    He said teams had already been to South Korea and Taiwan toencourage direct use of the exchange, while a delegation wouldalso visit Europe, Mexico and some Latin American states toencourage participation.    Officials say the infant exchange has made a good startalthough trading in coffee has been disappointing.    Transactions in rubber between the start of trading inApril 1985 and December 1986 totalled 9,595 tonnes, worth 6.9mln dlrs FOB, plus 184.3 mln rupiah for rubber deliveredlocally, the latest exchange report said.     Trading in coffee in calendar 1986 amounted to only 1,905tonnes in 381 lots, valued at 6.87 billion rupiah.     Total membership of the exchange is now nine brokers and44 traders. REUTER
WALL STREET STOCKS/PAPER AND LUMBER PRODUCERS Stocks of paper and lumber producerstumbled as a rumor spread that the Japanese may impose tariffson wood and paper products, analysts and industry officialssaid. But, they said, logic and their own research do notsupport the rumors.    "Apparently a rumor is floating around trading circlesabout the Japanese doing something about tariffs on wood andpaper products," Lowell Moholt, director of investor relationsat Weyerhaeuser Co said. "And we can only assume that thisrumor is one of the factors hurting the stocks."    "I have talked to many people, some with governmentcontacts, and most of them have been mystified by the rumor,"said Moholt.    Nevertheless, International Paper <IP> fell 4-3/8 to95-1/2, Weyerhaeuser Co <WY> two to 51-1/2, Potlatch Corp <PCH>3-1/2 to 69, Great Northern Nekoosa <GNN> 3-1/8 to 85-1/2,Temple Inland Inc <TIN> 2-3/4 to 57-1/4, Boise Cascade 2-3/8 to74-3/8, Georgia Pacific Corp <GP> 1-1/2 to 43-3/4, ChampionInternational Corp <CHA> 1-3/8 to 36-1/2 and Pope and TalbotInc <POP> 1/2 to 36.    "My sources told me there is no grain of truth to theJapanese imposing tariffs," Sherman Chao, analyst with SalomonInc said. "The realities and the logic do not support theserumors," he said.    "The Japanese have a lot more to lose by imposing tariffs.They are running a trade surplus," he said, "and if theystarted a trade war it would hurt them more than the U.S."    Chao said that U.S. producers annually export about twobillion dlrs of forest products to Japan. "Three quarters ofthat is in the form of wood products, meaning logs, wood chipsand lumber, and the balance is paper products."    "They (the Japanese) don't have any domestic sources tomake up for the restrictions," Chao said, "so it's not likethey would put a tariff to protect their own industry."    "The rumors do no make economic sense, and I am skeptical,"analyst Mark Rogers of Prudential Bache Securities said, "butpolitics has been known to override economic concerns."     Speculation has surfaced on Wall Street recently that theJapanese would take action to retaliate against tariffs theReagan Administration imposed last Friday on Japaneseelectronics products.    Rogers said the rumor fueled the profit taking that wasalready occuring in these stocks. "In a nervous market, peopletend to take profits, and they tend to take profits that havebeen the biggest gainers lately." Reuter
U.S. TRADE BILL VERY DANGEROUS FOR CANADA, LOBBY A trade bill before the United StatesHouse of Representatives "is a very dangerous bill for Canadianindustry," Canadian Forest Industry Council chairman AdamZimmerman told reporters.    By changing the definition of subsidy under U.S.countervailing duty law, House of Representatives Bill 3removes protection for companies that take advantage of widelyused government programs, Zimmerman told a media briefing.    "Clearly, any industry to which Canadian governments grantrights to fish, mine, cut timber, or produce power could bevulnerable to a finding of a subsidy under this language," hesaid.    The Canadian forest lobby's Zimmerman also said the Houseof Representative Bill would adopt a new way of measuringsubsidies that would greatly increase the size of anycountervailing duties that might be imposed on Canadianresource exports to the U.S.    Under the bill, any difference between Canadian prices andU.S. or world market prices would constitute a subsidy, hesaid. Such a method would make Canadian resource industriesvulnerable to similar penalties like a 15 pct export taximposed last January on shipments of Canadian softwood lumberto the U.S., Zimmerman added.    Canadian negotiators agreed to levy the new tax if a U.S.forest industry lobby would drop its request for a countervailduty on imports of Canadian softwood lumber.    "We represent the first victim of the move to price othercountries' natural resources according to the U.S. system,"Zimmerman said.    "If we're an example, than other resource industries hadbetter watch out," he added.    Zimmerman said the Canadian Forest Industry Council plansto discuss concerns about the U.S. trade bill with lobby groupsfrom other Canadian resource industries. Reuter
CANADA LUMBER EXPORTS MAY BECOME UNPROFITABLE Canada's softwood lumber will becomeunprofitable for some forest product producers if pricesdecline to about 175 U.S. dlrs per thousand board feet of twoby four inch lumber from current levels of about 195 U.S. dlrs,Canadian Forest Industry Council chairman Adam Zimmerman toldreporters.    Zimmerman reiterated profitability has been hurt by a moveby Canadian negotiators to impose last January a 15 pct exporttax on softwood lumber shipped to the U.S. in exchange for aU.S. lumbermen's lobby dropping its request for a countervailduty.    "I think that there has been a falling off in the market, soI think there is a moderate slow down in the price now,"Zimmerman said at a media briefing.    Zimmerman said the adverse impact from lower U.S. lumberproduct prices would be felt by lumber mills in eastern Canadafirst, migrating westward.    "The country has swallowed a time bomb and it will go offwhen times get tough," Zimmerman said.    He also said the federal government should maintain theexisting 15 pct export tax and not allow provinces to offsetthe tax with increased provincial fees for cutting lumber. Reuter
CCC CREDIT GUARANTEES TO HAITI AMENDED The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC)has amended its Export Credit Guarantee Program line to Haitito add one mln dlrs in guarantees for sales of U.S. woodproducts, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.    The action increases the value of export credit guaranteesfor wood products to Haiti from 1.8 to 2.8  mln dlrs and thetotal value of export credit guarantees authorized to Haiti forthe current fiscal year for all commodities to 12.0 mln dlrs,the department said.    All sales must be registered and exports completed by Sept30, 1987, it noted. Reuter
WORLD BANK LOANS UGANDA 13 MLN DLRS The World Bank said it has loanedUganda 13 mln dlrs through the International DevelopmentAssociation (IDA), the bank's concessionary lending affiliate.    The IDA loan will support a project that hopes to preservethe country's natural forests and meet its demand for woodproducts by rehabilitating Uganda's forestry management agency,the bank said.    It also said the project plans to increase the area andmanagement of protected forests, establish pilot wood farms andnurseries, and rehabilitate soft wood plantations. Reuter
