AVERAGE YEN CD RATES FALL IN LATEST WEEK Average interest rates on yen certificatesof deposit, CD, fell to 4.27 pct in the week ended February 25from 4.32 pct the previous week, the Bank of Japan said.    New rates (previous in brackets), were -    Average CD rates all banks 4.27 pct (4.32)    Money Market Certificate, MMC, ceiling rates for the weekstarting from March 2          3.52 pct (3.57)    Average CD rates of city, trust and long-term banks    Less than 60 days          4.33 pct (4.32)    60-90 days                 4.13 pct (4.37)    Average CD rates of city, trust and long-term banks    90-120 days             4.35 pct (4.30)    120-150 days            4.38 pct (4.29)    150-180 days            unquoted (unquoted)    180-270 days            3.67 pct (unquoted)    Over 270 days           4.01 pct (unquoted)    Average yen bankers' acceptance rates of city, trust andlong-term banks    30 to less than 60 days unquoted (4.13)    60-90 days              unquoted (unquoted)    90-120 days             unquoted (unquoted) REUTER
GULF BOND, STOCK MARKETS LAG BEHIND, GIB SAYS Gulf money markets have grown reasonablywell during the past decade, but bond and stock markets remainto a large extent fragmented and lag behind, <GulfInternational Bank BSC> (GIB) said.    The bank's economist Henry Azzam said in a review of Gulfcapital markets that investors have to relinquish traditionalinvestment vehicles such as real estate, foreign currency bankaccounts and precious metals.    "Greater financial sophistication is needed coupled withmore diversified capital market instruments and a change in thedisclosure requirements on company accounts," he said.    The GIB study reviewed capital markets under threecategories -- money markets, stock and bond markets.    Azzam said Gulf states had been making greater use ofshort-term money market instruments and banks in the region hadfloated various euronotes and underwriting facilities.    "Nevertheless, bond and stock markets remain, to a largeextent, fragmented and lagging behind," he said.    Most debt in the region is still raised by syndicated loansand bank facilities and very few companies had made use ofstock or bond issues. Only Kuwait has an official stockexchange, while other Gulf nations have yet to establishexchanges.    But with dwindling financial surpluses in the Gulf,governments are actively pursuing ways to develop capitalmarkets and set up domestic stock exchanges, Azzam said.    He said recession stemming from sliding oil prices had"clearly had a negative impact on the development of capitalmarkets in the region."    In addition, family firms are reluctant to go public,financial awareness among investors is still lacking andinvestment analysis and corporate reporting standards lackdepth. A sharp fall in share prices in the early 1980s promptedinvestors to hold on to shares hoping for an eventual recovery.    Azzam said the absence of proper commercial law in someGulf countries and authorities' apparent reluctance to adoptfinancial innovations had also hampered capital markets.    He called for clearly defined laws governing incorporationof joint stock companies and the flotation of debt instruments.    Azzam said capital market instruments should be madeavailable to all citizens and institutions of Gulf CooperationCouncil (GCC) states -- Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, SaudiArabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Some moves had beentaken in this direction, with Bahrain allowing GCC nationals toown up to 25 pct of locally incorporated companies.    Azzam said Gulf money markets had received greater depthfrom the introduction of treasury bill offerings in Bahrain andthe expansion of securities repurchase regulations in SaudiArabia.    But he added there is "no bond market to speak of" in SaudiArabia, Qatar, Oman or the UAE, with the last Saudi riyaldenominated bond issued in 1978.    While Bahrain plans an official stock exchange and tradingin Saudi Arabia has picked up, establishment of formalexchanges in Qatar, Oman and the UAE does not appear imminent,Azzam said. REUTER
ZAMBIA TO RETAIN CURRENCY AUCTION, SAYS KAUNDA Zambia will retain its foreign-exchangeauction system despite the suspension of weekly auctions sinceJanuary 24, President Kenneth Kaunda said.    "We have not run away from the auction. It hasn't beenabolished at all," he told Reuters in an interview.    He said the system would be reintroduced after currenttalks with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fundand, he hoped, would be backed by fresh foreign aid funds.    Kaunda dismissed central bank statements the new auctionsystem would be used to allocate foreign exchange to privatebidders but not to fix the exchange rate.    Kaunda said the auction system had faltered because of thegovernment's shortage of foreign exchange to meet demand.    It was suspended when the kwacha's rapid devaluation andstrong fluctuations made economic planning almost impossiblefor the government and the private sector, he said.    Weekly foreign-exchange auctions began in October 1985. Thekwacha fell from 2.20 to the dollar to about 15 in 16 months.In January 1987 the government was more than two months inarrears in paying foreign currency to successful bidders, andthe auction was suspended and replaced with a fixed exchangerate of nine kwacha to the dollar. REUTER
NEW DUTCH ADVANCES TOTAL 4.8 BILLION GUILDERS The Dutch Central Bank said it hasaccepted bids totalling 4.8 billion guilders at tender for newseven-day special advances at 5.3 pct covering the period March2 to 9 aimed at relieving money market tightness.    Subscriptions to 300 mln guilders were met in full, amountsabove 300 mln at 50 pct.    The new facility replaces old five-day advances worth 8.0billion guilders at the same rate.    Dealers expect this week's money market shortage to bearound 12 billion guilders. Reuter
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 800 MLN STG The Bank of England said it forecast ashortage of around 800 mln stg in the money market today.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturingin official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drainsome 1.61 billion stg.    Partly offsetting this outflow, exchequer transactions anda fall in note circulation will add around 425 mln stg and 360mln stg respectively. In addition, bankers' balances abovetarget will add some 20 mln stg to the system today. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED DOWN The Bank of England said it revised itsforecast of the shortage in the money market down to around 700mln stg from its original estimate of 800 mln. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET RECEIVES 37 MLN STG ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it had providedthe money market with 37 mln stg assistance in the morningsession. This compares with the Bank's downward revisedestimate of the shortfall in the system today of around 700 mlnstg.    The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprisingfour mln stg in band one at 10-7/8 pct and 33 mln stg in bandtwo at 10-13/16 pct. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED BORROWING FACILTIES The Bank of England said it had offeredborrowing facilities to those discount houses wishing to usethem at 1430 GMT.    The Bank also said it provided the money market 456 mln stgassistance in the afternoon session bringing its total help sofar today to 493 mln stg. This compares with its forecast of ashortage in the system today of around 700 mln stg.    The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprising41 mln stg in band one at 10-7/8 pct 361 mln stg in band two at10-13/16 pct and 54 mln stg in band three at 10-3/4 pct.    Money market dealers said the Bank of England has recentlyused the offer of borrowing facilities to signal that it doesnot want to see an early reduction in U.K. Base lending rates.    The Bank does this by lending to the discount houses atrates of interest higher than its prevailing money marketdealing rates. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO ADD TEMPORARY RESERVES The Federal Reserve is expected toenter the U.S. Government securities market to add temporaryreserves, economists said.    They expect it to supply the reserves indirectly byarranging a fairly large round, two billion dlrs or more, ofcustomer repurchase agreements. The Fed may add the reservesdirectly instead via System repurchases.    Federal funds, which averaged 6.02 pct on Friday, opened at6-1/8 pct and traded between there and 6-1/16 pct. Funds areunder upward pressure from settlement of recently sold two-yearnotes and from a Treasury tax and loan call on banks. Reuter
FED SETS 1.5 BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE,  The New York Stock Exchange said AirgasInc declined to comment on its stock activity after a requestfor an explanation by the exchange.    The company's stock was up 1-1/8 points to 11 dlrs. Reuter
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange 1.5 billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.    Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/16 pct whenthe Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves tothe banking system. Reuter
JAPANESE ECONOMIST SEES STABLE YEN/DOLLAR RATES The yen should stabilize at around152 to 153 to the U.S. Dollar for about a year, the Bank ofTokyo's economic adviser Koei Narusawa said.    "Both sides are showing clear interest to secure stabilityof the currencies. The major target of the Japanese governmentis to maintain the yen at above 150, at least for the rest ofthe year," he told reporters during a brief visit to Malaysia.    Narusawa said the U.S. Is unlikely to push the yen upfurther because this might spark off inflation and depress theU.S. Economy before the 1988 presidential election.    The yen is trading at around 153.70 to the dollar. REUTER
PHILIPPINE PLANNING CHIEF URGES PESO DEVALUATION The Philippines must devalue the peso ifit wants its exports to remain competitive, Economic PlanningSecretary Solita Monsod told Reuters.    "The peso/dollar rate has to be undercut to make our exportsmore competitive," Monsod said an interview. "No question aboutit. I'm saying you cannot argue with success. Taiwan, SouthKorea, West Germany, Japan, all those miracle economiesdeliberately undervalued their currencies."    The peso has been free-floating since June 1984. It iscurrently at about 20.50 to the U.S. Dollar.    Finance Secretary Jaime Ongpin has said the government doesnot intend to devalue the peso and wants it to be flexible andable to continue to respond to market conditions.    Monsod said Ongpin was looking at the exchange rate fromthe point of view of finance. "If the dollar rate goes higher,our debt service in terms of pesos gets higher, so thefinancing is very difficult," she said. "But I am looking at itin terms of the economy."    She said she was not trying to oppose official policy.    "I'm just saying, keep it competitive. I do not want it tobecome uncompetitive because then we are dead."    Monsod said, "The ideal movement in the peso/dollar rate isa movement that will reflect differences in inflation (rates)of the Philippines versus the other country. It's an arithmeticthing."    Official figures show Philippine inflation averaged 0.8 pctin calendar 1986. Ongpin told reporters on Saturday it wasexpected to touch five pct this year.    He said the government and the International Monetary Fundhad set the peso/dollar 1987 target rate at 20.80.    The peso lost 22.2 pct in value to slump to 18.002 to thedollar when it was floated in 1984. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 350 MLN STG The Bank of England said it forecast ashortage of around 350 mln stg in the money market today.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturingin official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drainsome 525 mln stg while bankers' balnces below target will takeout around 175 mln stg.    Partly offsetting these outflows, exchequer transactionsand a fall in note circulation will add some 300 mln stg and 40mln stg to the system respectively. REUTER
SAUDI RIYAL DEPOSIT RATES EASE Saudi riyal interbank deposit rateseased across the board in a dull market which was long inday-to-day funds, dealers said.    Today's quiet market continued a lull of several days inwhich traders were said to be waiting on the sidelines ahead offurther clues to the direction of oil prices and the Saudieconomy.    Dealers cited some borrowing interest in two, three, andsix-month deposits but said activity focused on short dates andone-month deposits as banks tried to lend surplus funds.    Spot-next was put at 5-3/4, 5-1/4 pct, down from six, 5-1/2yesterday while one-week rates were steady at six, 5-1/2 pct.    One-month deposits declined to 6-1/4, 1/8 pct from 6-1/2,1/4 on Monday, while three months was barely changed at seven,6-15/16 pct.    The spot riyal was little changed at 3.7501/03 to thedollar after quotes of 3.7498/7501 yesterday. REUTER
NO BUNDESBANK POLICY CHANGES EXPECTED THURSDAY The Bundesbank is unlikely to changeits credit policies at its central bank council meeting onThursday, as exchange rates and short-term interest rates havestabilized over the past few weeks, money market dealers said.    Attention in the money market is focused on tomorrow'stender for a securities repurchase pact, from which funds willbe credited on Thursday, when an earlier pact expires, draining16 billion marks from the system.    The tender was announced last Friday, because carnivalfestivities closed banks in Duesseldorf yesterday, and willclose banks here this afternoon.    Because of the disruption to business from carnival,minimum reserve figures for the start of the month areunrealistic, making it difficult for banks to assess theirneeds at the tender.    Dealers said the Bundesbank would want to inject enoughliquidity in this week's pact to keep short-term rates down.    But because of uncertainty about banks' current holdings,the Bundesbank may well allocate less than 16 billion marksthis week, and top it up if necessary at next week's tender.    "I would not be surprised if the Bundesbank cuts the amounta little, to say 14 or 15 billion marks," one dealer said.    "They would then stock it up at the next tender when theneed is clearer," he added.    An earlier pact expires next week, draining 8.5 billionmarks from the system. Banks also face a heavy but temporarydrain this month from a major tax deadline for customers.    Banks held 52.0 billion marks on February 27 at theBundesbank, averaging 51.0 billion over the whole month, justclear of the 50.5 billion February reserve requirement.    Call money traded today at 3.85/95 pct, up from 3.80/90yesterday. REUTER
NO BUNDESBANK POLICY CHANGES EXPECTED THURSDAY The Bundesbank is unlikely to changeits credit policies at its central bank council meeting onThursday, as exchange rates and short-term interest rates havestabilized over the past few weeks, money market dealers said.    Attention in the money market is focused on tomorrow'stender for a securities repurchase pact, from which funds willbe credited on Thursday, when an earlier pact expires, draining16 billion marks from the system.    The tender was announced last Friday, because carnivalfestivities closed banks in Duesseldorf yesterday, and willclose banks here this afternoon.    Because of the disruption to business from carnival,minimum reserve figures for the start of the month areunrealistic, making it difficult for banks to assess theirneeds at the tender.    Dealers said the Bundesbank would want to inject enoughliquidity in this week's pact to keep short-term rates down.    But because of uncertainty about banks' current holdings,the Bundesbank may well allocate less than 16 billion marksthis week, and top it up if necessary at next week's tender.    "I would not be surprised if the Bundesbank cuts the amounta little, to say 14 or 15 billion marks," one dealer said.    "They would then stock it up at the next tender when theneed is clearer," he added.    An earlier pact expires next week, draining 8.5 billionmarks from the system. Banks also face a heavy but temporarydrain this month from a major tax deadline for customers.    Banks held 52.0 billion marks on February 27 at theBundesbank, averaging 51.0 billion over the whole month, justclear of the 50.5 billion February reserve requirement.    Call money traded today at 3.85/95 pct, up from 3.80/90yesterday. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED UP The Bank of England said it revised upits forecast of the shortage in the money market today toaround 500 mln stg from its initial estimate of 350 mln. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 24 MLN STG ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it provided 24mln stg help to the money market in the morning session.    This compares with the bank's upward revised shortageforecast of around 500 mln stg.    The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprisingtwo mln stg in band one at 10-7/8 pct and 22 mln stg in bandtwo at 10-13/16 pct. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED DOWN The Bank of England said it had revisedits forecast of the shortage in the money market down to 450mln stg before taking account of its morning operations. Atnoon the bank had estimated the shortfall at 500 mln stg. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 437 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it had provided themoney market with a further 437 mln stg assistance in theafternoon session. This brings the Bank's total help so fartoday to 461 mln stg and compares with its revised shortageforecast of 450 mln stg.    The central bank made purchases of bank bills outrightcomprising 120 mln stg in band one at 10-7/8 pct and 315 mlnstg in band two at 10-13/16 pct.    In addition, it also bought two mln stg of treasury billsin band two at 10-13/16 pct. REUTER
FORMER TREASURY OFFICIAL URGES CURRENCY REFORMS Former Treasury official C. FredBergsten said a new exchange rate system is needed to replacethe fixed and flexible exchange rate systems which he said hadnot worked.    "I prefer a move to 'target zones' in which the majorcountries would determine ranges of 15-20 pct within which theywould pledge to hold their exchange rates by directintervention and, as necessary, by changes in monetary andother policies," Bergsten, now the director of the Institutefor International Economics, said in a statement to a HouseBanking subcommittee.    "The substantial correction of the exchange rate that hasoccurred since early 1985 is enormously welcome, and shouldproduce a sizeable reduction in the U.S. trade deficit thisyear and next, but the imbalance will not fall much below 100billion dlrs on present policies, so much more is needed," hesaid. Reuter
DUTCH MONEY MARKET DEBT BARELY CHANGED IN WEEK Loans and advances from the Dutchcentral bank to the commercial banks were barely changed at12.9 billion guilders in the week up to and including March 2,the central bank weekly return showed.    The Treasury's account with the bank dropped 1.3 billionguilders. Dealers said a larger amount of funds in the form ofinterest and repayments on state loans went out than came inthe form of tax payments to the state.    Notes in circulation rose 360 mln to 27.7 billion as thepublic withdrew cash to celebrate this week's Carnival festivalor take an end-of-winter holiday break, dealers said.    Current money market rates are at 5-3/4 to 6-1/4 pct forcall money against 5-1/4 to 5-3/8 a week ago, and between5-5/16 and 5-9/16 pct against 5-1/4 to 5-1/2 for one to 12month periods, dealers said.    The cause for the rise was a rather tight 4.8 billionguilders of special advances set by the Bank yesterday comparedwith 8.0 billion guilders for the previous set, dealers added.    They expect the money market shortage to continue around 12billion guilders this week.    The weekly return showed total Dutch gold and currencyreserves rose 11.3 mln guilders to 56.0 billion guilders. REUTER
SWISS MONEY MARKET PAPER YIELDS 3.286 PCT The Swiss Federal Government's new seriesof six-month money market certificates raised 177.5 mln Swissfrancs at an issue price of 98.401 pct to give an averageannual yield of 3.286 pct, the National Bank said.    Payment date is March 5.    The last series of six-month paper issued in January raised159.6 mln francs at 98.392 pct to give an average yield of3.251 pct. REUTER
SWAP DEALERS UNVEIL STANDARD CONTRACT The International Swap DealersAssociation has developed the first standard form contract foruse by arrangers of currency and interest rate swaptransactions, said Thomas Jasper, the Association'sco-chairman.    The contract, unveiled at a press conference , is expectedto make the 300 billion dlr a year swap market more efficient,he said. "The contracts wil accelerate the process and reducethe expense of swap documentation," Japsper said.    Privately, eurobond traders estimate that about 80 pct ofall new issues eventually become part of either an interestrate or currency swap.    An interest rate swap occurs when two issuers, usuallyacting through a bank middleman, agree to accept each other'sinterest payments on debt securities. Usually, the issuer of afloating rate debt security swaps into fixed-rate debt and viceversa. But the obligation for repayment of the debt remainswith the original borrower.    Bank regulators have become concerned about the use ofswaps because the middleman, usually a bank, takes on someportion of the risk but is not required to show it on thebalance sheet as a liability and may not have sufficientcapital to cushion it.    Kenneth McCormick, a co-chairman of the ISDA and presidentof Kleinwort Benson Cross Financing Inc, said the Bank ofEngland and the U.S. Federal Reserve Board were expected latertoday to announce joint proposals for setting minimum capitalstandards for counterparties in swaps.    The standards are part of the recently announcedconvergence agreement between the two countries in whichregulators have attempted to set similar capital requirementsfor institutions.    McCormick told reporters the ISDA was concerned that a"level playing field" be maintained in the swaps market.    He said if U.K. And U.S. Banks were required to hold moreprimary capital against swap transactions than is the currentpractice, the additional costs would have to be passed on toissuers.    The issuers might then choose to do business withlower-cost banks which are not subject to U.S. Or U.K. Bankingrules.    He said the ISDA had been working on a code of conduct forswap dealers as part of its self-regulatory effort.    That code should be completed within the next few weeks, hesaid. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 85 MLN STG LATE HELP The Bank of England said it had providedthe money market with late assistance of around 85 mln stg.    This brings the bank total help so far today to some 87 mlnstg and compares with its latest forecast of a 250 mln stgshortage in the system today. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO ADD TEMPORARY RESERVES The Federal Reserve is expected toenter the U.S. Government securities market to add temporaryreserves, economists said.    They expect it to supply the reserves indirectly byarranging around 1.5 of customer repurchase agreements.    Federal funds, which averaged 6.22 pct yesterday, opened atsix pct and remained there in early trading. Reuter
U.S. TREASURY DEPUTY ASST SECRETARY BERGER SAYS FURTHER DOLLAR DROP COULD CAUSE I West Germany and Tanzania have signed anagreement on rescheduling 145 mln marks worth of commercialcredits, the Finance Ministry said.    Tanzania will now have until April 1, 1997 to pay back thecredits, some of which had originally fallen due in 1979, aministry statement said.    Interest on the credits will be paid at market rates. REUTER
U.S. TREASURY AIDE WARNS ON INFLATION Thomas Berger, Deputy AssistantSecretary of the Treasury, said that a further drop in theexchange value of the dollar could cause prices to go up andtrigger inflation.    He told a meeting of the President's Export Council thatthe Japanese and the Germans have cut their profit margins toreflect recent drops in the dollar, so prices have remainedmuch the same.    But he added that if the dollar dropped further there couldbe inflation in the United States.    Berger also said that a further devalued dollar may causeeconomic depressions in some U.S. trading partners, and thatwould not be in America's interest because it would close thosemarkets to U.S. goods. Reuter
FED DRAFTS CURRENCY, RATE SWAP RISK GAUGE The Federal Reserve Board votedunanimously to propose a formula for calculating the risk ofinterest rate and currency swaps as part of its ongoing effortto come up with a new capital standard for U.S. banks thattakes into account the riskiness of a bank's loans and otherassets.    Fed officials said an identical proposal was being issuestoday by the Bank of England.    The Fed set a 60-day period for public comment on the plan.    The proposal adopted today addresses only the credit risksassociated with interest rate swaps, forward foreign exchangecontracts and similar financial instruments.    Previously, the Fed Jan. 8 proposed a series of guidelinesfor calculating the risk of other off-balance-sheet activitiesthat banks would be required to take into account incalculating the minimum financial cushion they would need tomaintain.    Both guidelines set five broad categories of risk for loansand other bank assets and assigned to each a level of risk thatwould establish a bank's minimum capital needs.    The additional guidelines proposed today would determinethe amount of capital support required for a bank's currentexposure for a given asset and the potential future exposure.    The current exposure would be measured by themark-to-market value of the asset, which would reflect thereplacement cost.    Potential future increases in the replacement cost would becalculated using credit conversion factors based on statisticalanalyses by the staffs of the Bank of England and U.S. bankingregulators. Future exposure would rise over the life of theasset.    The Fed staff said the risk gauge attempted to balanceconflicting needs for precision and simplicity.    They ignore, for example, the relative volatility of theparticular currencies involved in exchange rate contracts.    Board officials said the new gauge could increase thecapital required of the largest money center banks, which arethe principal participants in these types of activities.    They cautioned the Fed board to take account of thepotential impact of the plan on the ability of U.S. banks tocompete in world financial markets.    However, the staff concluded, "The credit risks inherent insuch contracts now constitute a significant element of the riskprofiles of some banking organizations."    The Fed proposal would exempt all but the 20-25 largestparticipants in this market, on grounds the benefits ofincluding the smaller banks would be outweighed by costs.    Also excluded would be interest rate and foreign exchangecontracts traded on organized exchanges.    Governor Martha Seger said she was concerned that Japan wasnot involved in the U.K.-U.S. effort to draft new capitalrules. Reuter
U.S., BRITAIN AGREE FURTHER BANK CAPITAL PROPOSALS The Bank of England and the U.S. FederalReserve Board have agreed new proposals for joint standards tomeasure the risk of an array of credit exposures that do notshow up in bank balance sheets, the Bank of England said.    The plan, covering swaps, forward contracts and optionsinvolving interest or exchange rates, complements proposalsagreed in January between the two central banks to makecommercial banks in the U.S. And Britain subject to similarstandards for measuring capital adequacy, the proposal said.    It said no final decisions had been reached yet and bankshave until April 16 to comment on the trunk proposals.    The Bank of England and Fed said they had faced a dilemma.    "On the one hand (we) are determined to require adequatecapital support for potential future exposure -- on the otherhand (we) are concerned that overly stringent capitalrequirements might unnecessarily affect the ability of U.S. AndU.K. Banking organisations to price...Contracts competitively."     At the basis of the new proposals lies the concept of theso-called credit equivalent amount - the current value of acurrency or interest rate contract and an estimate of itspotential change in value due to currency or interest ratefluctuations until the contract matures.    In treatment similar to that agreed in January for balancesheet assets, the credit equivalent will be assigned one offive risk weights between zero and 100 pct, depending on thequality of the counterparty, the remaining maturity of thecontract and on collaterals or guarantees to the contract, theplans showed.    The proposal showed that collaterals and guarantees wouldnot be recognised in calculating credit equivalent amounts.    They would, however, be reflected in the assignment of riskweights. The only guarantees recognised are those given by U.S.And U.K. Governments or, in the U.S., By domestic nationalgovernment agencies, the proposals showed.    The paper said the proposed rules would not cover spotforeign exchange contracts and securities traded in futures andoptions exchanges.    It said U.S. Regulatory authorities and the Bank of Englandwere keen to encourage banks to "net" contracts -- consolidatemultiple contracts with the same counterparty into one singleagreement to create one single payments stream.    It recognised that "such arrangements may in certaincircumstances reduce credit risk and wish to encourage theirfurther development and implementation," and said some of thecurrent proposals may be changed to take this into account.    The paper said the proposed rules would not cover spotforeign exchange contracts and securities traded in futures andoptions exchanges.    It said U.S. Regulatory authorities and the Bank of Englandwere keen to encourage banks to "net" contracts -- consolidatemultiple contracts with the same counterparty into one singleagreement to create one single payments stream.    It recognised that "such arrangements may in certaincircumstances reduce credit risk and wish to encourage theirfurther development and implementation," and said some of thecurrent proposals may be changed to take this into account. Reuter
NEW BANK RULES TOUGHER THAN NEEDED, DEALERS SAY U.S. and U.K. bank regulators are askingbanks to set aside more reserves than is necessary to cushionthem against the risks posed by the interest rate and currencyswap transactions they carry, swap dealers said.    After viewing proposed guidelines released jointly today bythe Bank of England and the Federal Reserve Board, dealers saidthat in effect, regulators are asking them to set asidereserves twice for the same risk.    Market participants will have 60 days to respond to theproposals.    Adoption of stiffer capital requirements is especiallysignificant in the eurobond markets, which saw new issue volumeof about 183 billion dlrs in 1986 according to figures compiledby Euromoney magazine. While no firm figures exist, dealers ineurobonds estimate that 80 pct of all new issues are involvedin some swap arrangement. Separately, the ISDA estimates thatabout 300 billion dlrs worth of swap transactions areoutstanding. Kenneth McCormick, co-chairman of theInternational Swap Dealers Association (ISDA) and President ofKleinwort Benson Cross Financing Inc, said that the Associationhas no comment and will study the proposals.    "What they are proposing is really double counting," Patrickde Saint-Aignan, managing director of swaps for Morgan Stanleyand Co, said. Instead, he argues, banks should either berequired to hold a percentage of the face value -- say one pctper year to maturity -- or to hold a percentage of the cost ofreplacing the contract in the event of a counterparty default.    "The potential risk factors are very large relative to whatwe had expected," said a director at one U.K. merchant bank."What they are really doing is asking you to capitalize now --to borrow money now -- to cushion you against risk you mighthave 10 years from now," he added.(Adds title first paragraph).    Dealers also said they believe that banks not covered bythe agreement, such as those based in Japan, will have acompetitive advantage because they will not have to pass thecosts on to customers.    Indeed, regulators are apparently also concerned about theexclusion of other countries from the new requirements. FederalReserve Board Governor Martha Seger, following approval of theproposed guidelines by the Fed, said she is concerned thatJapan was not involved in the U.K.-U.S. effort to draft newcapital rules.     Dealers said they were somewhat relieved to see that bankregulators recognized the concept of netting, that is,offsetting the amounts receiveable from and payable to a singlecounterparty against each other.    The paper said that regulatory authorities "recognize thatsuch arrangements (netting) may in certain circumstances reducecredit risk." Furthermore, the paper said, if a nettingagreement could be reached that would withstand legal tests, itmight be willing to reduce capital requirements accordingly.    But dealers said they fear regulators may insist on anairtight netting agreement that is impossible to design.     "One problem is that there has never been a major defaultin the swaps market. So we don't know if any of the swaparrangements will really stand up in court," said one bankofficial. Reuter
YEUTTER SEEKS STRONGER TAIWAN, S.KOREA CURRENCIES U.S. Trade Representative ClaytonYeutter said he hoped the U.S. dollar would continue to declinein relation to the currencies of Taiwan and South Korea as away to improve the U.S. trade picture.    Testifying before the House Appropriations subcommitteewhich must approve his agency's 1988 budget, he said, "In myjudgment economic factors justify a continued decline."    Asked by a committee member if he expected a furtherdecline, and how much, Yeutter said the Taiwan and South Koreancurrencies should be adjusted to reflect "positive factors" intheir economies. Reuter
N. ZEALAND MARKETS PREPARE FOR TRADING BANK STRIKE New Zealand clearing house <DataBankSystems Ltd> said it will know tomorrow what services it willbe able to provide during a strike by bank officers againsttrading banks and DataBank set for March 9 and 10.    Trading banks polled by Reuters said their ability to offermoney market services during the strike depends on whetherDatabank remains open, and whether the banks have enough staffto process transactions.    A spokesman for the New Zealand Foreign ExchangeAssociation said dealers would be able to trade during thestrike.    But the spokesman added that from March 6 to 10 the valuedate of currency transactions will be March 16.    Trading bank spokesmen told Reuters they will try to honourtransactions in which an offshore party sought payment on March9 or 10, but they could not guarantee settlement.    The Futures Exchange said trading members and their clientswill be able to continue trading provided they have madesuitable financial arrangements.    The trading banks affected are the <Bank of New Zealand>,Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd <ANZA.S>, WestpacBanking Corp <WSTP.S> and <National Bank of New Zealand Ltd>. REUTER
NEW CURRENCY PROBLEM SEEN AMONG U.S, EUROPE, JAPAN The highly visible drama involving theyen's sharp rise against the U.S. Dollar is obscuring the factthat the Japanese currency has hardly budged against majorEuropean currencies, thus creating a new set of exchange ratedistortions, Japanese and European research officials said.    The officials, looking beneath the rhetoric of statementsby the Group of Five (G-5) industrial nations, told Reuters thecurrency movements of the past two years are also creating afundamentally new world trade picture, which is throwing up newtrade tensions and imbalances.    Trade figures show that the new currency alignments arealready changing the Japan-U.S. Trade axis into a Japan-European Community (EC) axis, to the discomfort of Europe.    In many ways, not least in terms of rare internationalcooperation, the September, 1985 New York Plaza pact betweenthe U.S., Japan, West Germany, Britain and France to cut downthe value of the dollar was a historic one.    But it is the underlying peaks and troughs of the majorcurrency movements which lay bare the real picture, in whichthe Plaza pact appears as an event of prime importance, but notnecessarily central significance, the officials said.    The officials said that when the Plaza agreement tookplace, the dollar was already on its way down. The agreementsimply helped it on its way. Senior EC financial expert inTokyo Tomas de Hora has watched the movements closely.    "You have to look at the dollar's peak compared with now,and that was well before Plaza," he said.    On February 25, 1985, the dollar peaked against the yen at263.15 yen. On September 20, the Friday before Plaza, it was242. Since then, despite massive Bank of Japan intervention andperiodic market frights about further G-5 concerted action, thedollar trend has been down, down, down.    Yet the ECU is now around 173.4 yen. The historical crossrates for sterling and the mark tell much the same story. TheEuropean currencies are moving back up against the yen.    The close relationship between exchange rates and tradeflows makes it difficult to see which is driving which, butundoubtedly the trade equation between the big three ischanging. In 1986, Japanese imports and exports with the ECboth grew by around 50 pct in dollar terms, five pct in yen.This gave Japan a 16 billion dlr trade surplus.    Last January, Japanese exports to the EC totalled half ofof sales to the U.S, against about a third in recent years.    Trade with the U.S in 1986 rose 23 pct for exports and 12pct for imports in dollar terms, but fell 13 pct for exportsand 21 pct for imports in yen terms.    "The basic meaning for Europe is that Japanese firms have atremendous interest in exporting to Europe, where every unitsold maximises profits in yen terms, which is what is importantto them. Suddenly, instead of the U.S., It is Europe that islaying the golden egg," said de Hora.    The EC is worried. EC business also had a remarkable yearin Japanese sales, but this can be explained partly due to itsstart from a small base, compared with total Japan-U.S. Trade.    The Japanese think EC firms are now more competitive thanU.S. Firms, a factor which is aggravating the exchange rateimbalance, and which will cause problems.    "This currency alignment between Japan and the EC isreflecting the excellent performance of the EC countries. Buttherefore, Japanese goods may keep their price competitiveedge," said Azusa Hayashi, Director of the First InternationalEconomic Affairs Division of the Foreign Ministry. "If you wantmy objective view, I don't expect a drastic improvement in ourtrade imbalance. Last year, we asked for moderation in exports,and this year we may have to do so again," he said. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it had invitedan early round of bill offers from the discount houses. TheBank forecast the shortage in the system today at around 1.15billion stg.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturingin official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drainsome 732 mln stg and exchequer transactions some 245 mln. Inaddition, bankers' balances below target and a rise in notecirculation will drain a further 135 mln stg and 30 mln stgrespectively. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 17 MLN STG EARLY HELP The Bank of England said it provided just17 mln stg assistance to the money market in response to anearly round of bill offers.    Earlier, the Bank had estimated the shortage in the systemtoday at around 1.15 billion stg.    The central bank purchased bills for resale to the marketon April 2 at an interest rate of 10-15/16 pct. REUTER
NIGERIAN CURRENCY FIRMS AT LATEST AUCTION The Nigerian naira firmed 2.6 pct againstthe dollar after 17 banks were disqualified from bidding attoday's weekly foreign exchange auction, the central bank said.The naira finished at 3.8050 to the dollar, against 3.9050 lastweek.    Only 38.39 mln dlrs of the 50 mln dlrs on offer was sold,with all 27 bidding banks successfully obtaining hard currency.    The effective rate, including a central bank levy, fortransactions in the coming week, was 3.8241 against 3.9246 lastweek.    The failure to sell the whole allocation was due to thecentral bank's unprecedented disqualification of 17 banks aspunishment for inadequate documentation in previoustransactions.    Banks are required to submit proof that their bids arebased on valid commercial transactions and the central bank hascomplained in the past that many are failing to produce theright paperwork within the specified time. REUTER
FRENCH INTERVENTION RATE CUT LIKELY, DEALERS SAY The Bank of France is likely to cut itsmoney market intervention rate by up to a quarter point at thestart of next week.  This follows a steady decline in the callmoney rate over the past 10 days and signals from the FinanceMinistry that the time is ripe for a fall, dealers said.    The call money rate peaked at just above nine pct ahead ofthe meeting of finance ministers from the Group of Fiveindustrial countries and Canada on February 22, which restoredconsiderable stability to foreign exchanges after several weeksof turbulence.    The call money rate dropped to around 8-3/8 pct on February23, the day after the Paris accord, and then edged steadilydown to eight pct on February 27 and 7-3/4 pct on March 3,where it has now stabilised.    Dealers said the Bank of France intervened to absorbliquidity to hold the rate at 7-3/4 pct.    While call money has dropped by well over a percentagepoint, the Bank of France's money market intervention rate hasremained unchanged since January 2, when it was raised to eightpct from 7-1/4 pct in a bid to stop a franc slide.    The seven-day repurchase rate has also been unchanged at8-3/4 since it was raised by a half-point on January 5.    The Bank of France has begun using the seven-day repurchaserate to set an upper indicator for money market rates, whileusing the intervention rate to set the floor.    Sources close to Finance Minister Edouard Balladur saidthat he would be happy to see an interest rate cut, and dealerssaid any fall in the intervention rate was most likely to comewhen the Bank of France buys first category paper next Monday,although an earlier cut could not be excluded.   A cut in the seven-day repurchase rate could come as earlyas tomorrow morning, banking sources said.    They said recent high interest rates have encouraged anacceleration in foreign funds returning to France, discouragingthe authorities from making a hasty rate cut. But they alsopointed out that money supply is broadly back on target, givingscope for a small fall in rates.    M-3 money supply, the government's key aggregate, finished1986 within the government's three to five pct growth target,rising 4.6 pct compared with seven pct in 1985. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER SMALL ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it provided themoney market with a further 20 mln stg of assistance during themorning. It again bought bills for resale to the market onApril 2 at a rate of 10-15/16 pct. Earlier this morning, itbought 17 mln stg of bills at the same rate and for resale onthe same date.    The Bank has thus given a total of 37 mln stg so far today,which leaves the bulk of a 1.15 billion stg shortage still inthe system. Dealers noted that money market rates again easedthis morning and the Bank may have refused bill offers from thediscount houses at rates below its established dealing levels. REUTER
SWISS OFFERS NEW SERIES OF MONEY MARKET PAPER The Swiss Finance Ministry is invitingtenders for a new series of three-month money marketcertificates to raise about 150 mln Swiss francs, the SwissNational Bank said.    Bids would be due on March 10 and payment on March 12.    The last issue of three-month paper conducted on February12 yielded 2.969 pct. REUTER
EGYPTIAN CENTRAL BANK DOLLAR RATE UNCHANGED Egypt's Central Bank today set the dollarrate for commercial banks for March 6 at 1.373/87 dollars,unchanged from the previous rate. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN HELP, OFFERED FACILITIES The Bank of England said it had given themoney market 206 mln stg of assistance this afternoon andoffered the discount houses borrowing facilities to take outthe rest of the 1.10 billion stg shortage, revised down from aninitial 1.15 billion estimate.    It made no alteration to its established dealing rates,buying 95 mln stg of band one bank bills at 10-7/8 pct and 111mln of band two bank bills at 10-13/16 pct. This brings theBank's total assistance so far today to 243 mln stg. REUTER
YEUTTER PUTS CURRENCY BURDEN ON TAIWAN, KOREA Responsibility for the appreciation ofthe Taiwan dollar and the South Korean Won lies soley withthose countries, said U.S. trade representative Clayton Yeutter    Speaking to the Asia Society, Yeutter said that it is inthose countries' own long-term interest to raise the value oftheir currencies against the dollar.    Yeutter was responding to a question about what the U.S.could do to encourage appreciation of those currencies againstthe dollar in order to reduce the large U.S. trade deficitswith Taiwain and Korea.    "An undervalued currency will help those countries' exportsin the short term, but in the long run they have to beconcerned about how they are perceived in the internationalbusiness community," Yeutter said.    For Taiwan, Yeutter said that with its per capita tradesurplus with the U.S., much larger than that of Japan's, andwith huge foreign exchange reserves, it was difficult to defendthe high import tarrifs and other barriers that prevail in thatcountry.    He also said that the south Korean Won should begin to moveto reflect underlying economic fundamentals, "otherwise in twoor three years' time, Korea will be in the same situation thatprevails in Taiwan."    Turning to the U.S. deficit with Japan of more than 50billion dlrs, Yeutter said that this situation was notsustainable.    "Something must give soon. If not, there is a great threatof U.S. legislative action to counteract that trend," Yeuttersaid. Reuter
U.S. COMMERCE DEPT'S ORTNER SAYS YEN IS 10 OR 15 PCT UND Texas Air Corp's <TEX> ContinentalAirlines said its February load factor fell to 60.3 pct from62.3 pct in February 1986.    Revenue passenger miles grew 95.8 pct in February to 2.75billion from 1.40 billion and 69.7 pct year-to-date to 4.85billion from 2.86 billion, the company said.    Available seat miles more than doubled in February to 4.55billion from 2.25 billion and increased 73 pct in the twomonths to 8.17 billion from 4.72 billion.    The load factor, or percentage of seats filled, fell to59.4 pct from 60.6 pct in the two months. Reuter
U.S. COMMERCE DEPT'S  ORTNER SAYS DOLLAR FAIRLY PRICED AGAINST EUROPEAN CU Shr 77 cts vs 76 cts    Net 13,843,000 vs 14,478,000    Sales 374.6 mln vs 368.3 mln    Avg shrs 18,003,000 vs 19,025,000    Year    Shr 2.16 dlrs vs 2.65 dlrs    Net 39,503,000 vs 51,573,000    Revs 1.41 billion vs 1.41 billion    Avg shrs 18,269,000 vs 19,497,000    NOTE: 1986 period ended February One    Company changed fiscal yearend to January 31 from October31. 1986 results were restated to reflect the change. Reuter
U.S. COMMERCE'S ORTNER SAYS YEN UNDERVALUED Commerce Dept. undersecretary ofeconomic affairs Robert Ortner said that he believed the dollarat  current levels was fairly priced against most Europeancurrencies.    In a wide ranging address sponsored by the Export-ImportBank, Ortner, the bank's senior economist also said he believedthat the yen was undervalued and could go up by 10 or 15 pct.    "I do not regard the dollar as undervalued at this pointagainst the yen," he said.    On the other hand, Ortner said that he thought that "the yenis still a little bit undervalued," and "could go up another 10or 15 pct."    In addition, Ortner, who said he was speaking personally,said he thought that the dollar against most Europeancurrencies was "fairly priced."    Ortner said his analysis of the various exchange ratevalues was based on such economic particulars as wage ratedifferentiations.    Ortner said there had been little impact on U.S. tradedeficit by the decline of the dollar because at the time of thePlaza Accord, the dollar was extremely overvalued and that thefirst 15 pct decline had little impact.    He said there were indications now that the trade deficitwas beginning to level off.    Turning to Brazil and Mexico, Ortner made it clear that itwould be almost impossible for those countries to earn enoughforeign exchange to pay the service on their debts.  He saidthe best way to deal with this was to use the policies outlinedin Treasury Secretary James Baker's debt initiative. Reuter
U.S. TREASURY SAYS NO COMMENT ON YEN VALUE A Treasury Department spokesmanrefused comment on statements by Robert Ortner, undersecretaryof economic affairs for the Commerce Department, that theJapanese yen was undervalued.    Ortner, senior economist at the Commerce Department, toldan Export-Import Bank conference "the yen is still a little bitundervalued," and "could go up another 10 or 15 pct."    Asked for reaction, a Treasury spokesman said officialswere aware of Ortner's comments but had no intention of makingany comment on them.    Ortner, who stressed he was expressing personal views, saidhe thought the U.S. dollar was "fairly priced"against most European currencies and added "I do not regard thedollar as undervalued at this point against the yen," he said.    But the yen should go up 10 or 15 pct in value, Ortnersaid, because it is undervalued against the dollar.    The United States and major trade allies West Germany,France, Britain, Japan and Canada met recently in Paris todiscuss maintaining stability in international currency values. Reuter
FED'S JOHNSON SAYS DOLLAR IS VERY CLOSE TO APPROPRIATE EXCHANGE RAT Meridian Diagnostics Inc said it hasdeveloped a rapid diagnostic test for endemic or murine typhusinfections caused by Rickettsii typhi and transmitted by fleabites.    It said the product will be sold to hospitals, physicians,commerical laboratories and veterinarians by <IntegratedDiagnostics Inc>. Reuter
YEUTTER SAYS BUDGET CUT KEY TO BETTER U.S. TRADE A reduction of the U.S. federal budgetdeficit will be needed to help eliminate the nation's hugetrade deficit, U.S. trade representative Clayton Yeutter said.    Speaking to the New York Chamber of Commerce and Industry,Yeutter said "Capital and trade flows are clearlyinter-releated now.    "Unless we get the budget deficit down, we will not get thetrade deficit down."    He did not elaborate on his views of the linkages betweenthe two deficits.    Private analysts have said that the financing of large U.S.budget deficits requires heavy capital inflows from overseasinvestors through purchases of U.S. Treasury and, to a lesserextent, other U.S. securities as well.    "We'll make some progress in reducing the 170 billion dlrtrade deficit in 1987, but there's still a long way to go,"Yeutter said.    He said the problem must be approached on many fronts andfocus most strongly on U.S. and overseas fiscal and monetarypolicies to foster economic growth, U.S. competitiveness andthe establishment of a "level playing field" for trade.    The U.S. trade representative said the Federal Reserveunder Chairman Paul Volcker has done its part to improve thetrade situation by getting interest rates down.    On the fiscal side, Yeutter said "the budget deficit isstill our biggest problem" and there has not been enoughprogress toward reducing that deficit.    In the international area, he said that "our major tradingpartners could still do more to stimulate domestic growth."Commenting on Japan, which is running around a 80 billion dlrtrade surplus with the United States, Yeutter said "Japan isjust not doing the job on the import side."    Yeutter declined to comment on statements relating to thedollar made earlier today by Commerce Dept undersecretary ofEconomic Affairs Robert Ortner.    In a Washington address to an Export-Import Bank sponsoredmeeting, Ortner said he believed the dollar at current levelswas fairly priced against most European currencies, but thatthe yen is 10 or 15 pct undervalued.    "The market will determine the dollar's proper value in theend," Yeutter said. However, he added that, if the U.S. andother nations do not take the necessary steps to cut the U.S.trade deficit, "the dollar will be the equalizer."    Yeutter said there is no quick fix to the trade problem andany resort to such tactics as protectionist trade legislationor trade restrictions poses real dangers.    He said "there's relatively little that Congress can do tolegislate a solution to the trade problem."    Protectionist legislation will only provoke retaliation byU.S. trading partners, Yeutter said.    "There is no doubt in my mind about the willingness of ourtrading partners to retaliate against unfair tradelegislation," Yeutter said, adding that policy flexibility isessential in solving international trade problems. Reuter
NEW CURRENCY PROBLEM SEEN AMONG U.S, EUROPE, JAPAN The highly visible drama involving theyen's sharp rise against the U.S. Dollar is obscuring the factthat the Japanese currency has hardly budged against majorEuropean currencies, thus creating a new set of exchange ratedistortions, Japanese and European research officials said.    The officials, looking beneath the rhetoric of statementsby the Group of Five (G-5) industrial nations, told Reuters thecurrency movements of the past two years are also creating afundamentally new world trade picture, which is throwing up newtrade tensions and imbalances.    Trade figures show that the new currency alignments arealready changing the Japan-U.S. Trade axis into a Japan-European Community (EC) axis, to the discomfort of Europe.    In many ways, not least in terms of rare internationalcooperation, the September, 1985 New York Plaza pact betweenthe U.S., Japan, West Germany, Britain and France to cut downthe value of the dollar was a historic one.    But it is the underlying peaks and troughs of the majorcurrency movements which lay bare the real picture, in whichthe Plaza pact appears as an event of prime importance, but notnecessarily central significance, the officials said.    The officials said that when the Plaza agreement tookplace, the dollar was already on its way down. The agreementsimply helped it on its way. Senior EC financial expert inTokyo Tomas de Hora has watched the movements closely.    "You have to look at the dollar's peak compared with now,and that was well before Plaza," he said.    On February 25, 1985, the dollar peaked against the yen at263.15 yen. On September 20, the Friday before Plaza, it was242. Since then, despite massive Bank of Japan intervention andperiodic market frights about further G-5 concerted action, thedollar trend has been down, down, down.    Yet the ECU is now around 173.4 yen. The historical crossrates for sterling and the mark tell much the same story. TheEuropean currencies are moving back up against the yen.    The close relationship between exchange rates and tradeflows makes it difficult to see which is driving which, butundoubtedly the trade equation between the big three ischanging. In 1986, Japanese imports and exports with the ECboth grew by around 50 pct in dollar terms, five pct in yen.This gave Japan a 16 billion dlr trade surplus.    Last January, Japanese exports to the EC totalled half ofof sales to the U.S, against about a third in recent years.    Trade with the U.S in 1986 rose 23 pct for exports and 12pct for imports in dollar terms, but fell 13 pct for exportsand 21 pct for imports in yen terms.    "The basic meaning for Europe is that Japanese firms have atremendous interest in exporting to Europe, where every unitsold maximises profits in yen terms, which is what is importantto them. Suddenly, instead of the U.S., It is Europe that islaying the golden egg," said de Hora.    The EC is worried. EC business also had a remarkable yearin Japanese sales, but this can be explained partly due to itsstart from a small base, compared with total Japan-U.S. Trade.    The Japanese think EC firms are now more competitive thanU.S. Firms, a factor which is aggravating the exchange rateimbalance, and which will cause problems.    "This currency alignment between Japan and the EC isreflecting the excellent performance of the EC countries. Buttherefore, Japanese goods may keep their price competitiveedge," said Azusa Hayashi, Director of the First InternationalEconomic Affairs Division of the Foreign Ministry. "If you wantmy objective view, I don't expect a drastic improvement in ourtrade imbalance. Last year, we asked for moderation in exports,and this year we may have to do so again," he said. REUTER...
CANADA DLR DRIVEN BY FOREIGN BUYERS - WILSON Finance Minister Michael Wilson saidlarge inflows of capital into Canada, principally into thecountry's bond market, is a major reason behind the sharprecovery in the Canadian dollar.    He said the inflow of funds, mainly from Japan, Europe andthe United States, is the result of "confidence in thedirection this country is going in."    "That is the reason why the (Canadian) dollar today ishigher than 75 cts (U.S.) compared to this time last year (whenit was) a little over 69 cts," Wilson told the House of Commonsdaily question period.    Figures released this week show foreigners purchased arecord 23.1 billion dlrs of Canadian bonds in 1986, more thandouble the previous year, with Japan investing a record 9.5billion dlrs in the market.    Wilson was responding to opposition party questions about apossible loss of jobs from the rise in Canadian investmentabroad. Canadian investment, including the buying of foreigncompanies, stocks and bonds, rose to 12.53 billion dlrs from6.19 billion dlrs in 1985.    The minister said the flow of funds from abroad wouldgenerate many new jobs in Canada. Reuter
TREASURY SAYS ONLY REAGAN, BAKER SPEAK ON DLR The U.S. Treasury repeated a WhiteHouse statement that only President Reagan and TreasurySecretary James Baker are authorized to speak on the dollar.    A Department spokesman was commenting on remarks byCommerce Department Under-Secretary Robert Ortner that the yenwas undervalued 10 or 15 pct against the dollar but Europeancurrencies were fairly priced against the U.S. currency.    "As Larry Speakes said on January 14 this year, only twopeople in this administration are authorized to speak on thedollar and that is the president and the secretary of thetreasury," the spokesman told Reuters. reuter
U.K. MONEY MARKET GETS 350 MLN STG AFTERNOON HELP The Bank of England said it providedassistance worth 350 mln stg during the afternoon session whichtakes total help so far today to 446 mln stg against a shortageestimated at around 550 mln stg.    The central bank purchased outright bank bills comprising120 mln stg in band one at 10-7/8 pct and 227 mln stg in bandtwo at 10-13/16 pct. It also bought treasury bills worth onemln stg in band one and two mln stg in band two at the samerates of interest as bank bills. REUTER
FED NOT EXPECTED TO ACT IN MONEY MARKETS The Federal Reserve is unlikely tooperate in the U.S. government securities market during itsusual intervention period this morning, economists said.    Fed funds opened comfortably at 5-15/16 pct and remained atthat level. Yesterday Fed funds averaged 5.99 pct. Reuter
BAKER DENIES CHANGE IN U.S. POLICY ON DOLLAR Treasury Secretary James Baker saidthere has been no change in U.S. policy on the value of thedollar.    Baker, when asked if the policy was changed in view ofcomments yesterday by a senior Commerce Department official whosaid he thought the Japanese yen was undervalued against thedollar by 10 to 15 pct, replied, "No."    Yesterday Robert Ortner, Undersecretary of Commerce forEconomic Affairs, said he thought the yen was undervalued butsaid that was his personal view.    This remark caused the dollar to drop as it appeared toconflict with a recent agreement in Paris by the United Statesand five other industrial nations that currency rates were atabout the right level to reflect underlying economicconditions.    Baker, who spoke earlier to the National NewspaperAssociation, declined to elaborate on his statement about U.S.policy. Reuter
FED SETS ONE BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE,  Genentech Inc said it fileda suit against the Food and Drug Administration in the U.S.District Court for the District of Columbia over an unresolvedissue relating to genetically engineered human growth hormone.    At issue, said Genentech, is whether Eli Lilly and Co's<ELI> recombinant human growth hormone and its new recombinantgrowth hormone, are the same drug. Both drugs are under reviewby the FDA.    Since 1985, Genentech has been marketing Protropin, arecombinant human growth hormone for treating abnormally shortchildren.    The biotechnology concern said it has the right to sevenyears of exclusive marketing for Protropin, granted orphan drugstatus by the FDA. Orphan drugs are a special category of drugsthat are used to treat rare diseases.    Genentech said the suit seeks clarification of whatconstitutes a drug under the standards of the orphan Drug Act.It suggested that without the "clarification," companies thatdevelop orphan drugs may not recover development costs duringthe period of marketing exclusivity.    It said Lilly's growth hormone and its new growth hormonediffer slightly, and are produced by different processes. Reuter
FED SETS ONE BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPO The Federal Reserve entered thegovernment securities market to arrange one billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a spokesman for the New YorkFed said.    Fed funds were trading at 5-15/16 pct at the time of theindirect injection of temporary reserves, dealers said. Reuter
FRENCH PRIMARY BOND MARKET SHOWS NEW SPARKLE The French primary bond market is showingsigns of renewed effervescence after several weeks of lethargyand the trend is expected to continue if hopes of imminentinterest rate cuts are fulfilled, market operators said.    The Bank of France is generally expected to give a signalto the market, possibly at the beginning of next week, byannouncing a quarter point cut in its intervention rate, whichhas stood at eight pct since January 2, or in its seven-dayrepurchase rate, set at 8-3/4 pct since January 5.    The central bank's averaged-out day to day call money rate,the reference rate for interbank money market operators, whichreached 8-3/4 pct on February 18 has fallen to 7-3/4 pct thisweek, dealers noted.    The Bank of France's "open market" policy to regulate themoney markets since December has been based on a floor andceiling of rates within the limits of its intervention andseven day repurchase rates.    For the moment the sentiment is of "wait and see" on ratecuts, but there are now more optimists than pessimists amongmarket operators, a dealer for a major French bank said.    Dealers said there is abundant liquidity on the bondmarket, noting that this week's monthly Treasury tap issue of11.87 billion francs had a good reception and was fairly easilyabsorbed.    The Treasury had set an upper limit on the issue of 12billion francs and was likely to continue to try and sell asmuch paper as it could over coming months to meet its borrowingneeds for this year of around 150 billion, one banker said.    Dealers said there was no difficulty in placing liquidityin the primary market at the moment despite competition fromthe surge in investments on the Paris stock exchange.    There has been a flood of large bond issues, but withformulas well adapted to market conditions and investor demand- with warrants or a mix of fixed and floating-rates - whichhave been snapped up, and with generally broadly negative fees.    Dealers pointed to the recent Caisse d'Aide a l'Equipementdes Collectivites Locales (CAECL) 8.90 pct two billion francbond with warrants exchangeable for floating-rate bonds issuedover 13 years and 80 days at 97.04 pct with payment date March9, which was today quoted at -0.90 to -1.10 pct.    Even classic fixed-rate issues, after being neglected sincethe end of last year, are finding buyers, one banker said.    Dealers said that now the question was to see how the termsof imminent operations would be set, with great market interestfocussed on the likely three next issues.    These will include an expected four to five billion francissue for Electricite de France, to be followed by a bond ofaround one billion francs for Auxiliaire du Credit Foncier, asubsidiary of the banking group Credit Foncier de France, and anew issue by tender from the mortgage agency Caisse deRefinancement Hypothecaire. REUTER
LIFFE FEBRUARY VOLUMES DOWN, BUT EURODOLLARS UP Total futures and options turnover on theLondon International Financial Futures Exchange (LIFFE) fellslightly during February, although daily average Eurodollarvolume set a new record, LIFFE said today.    Total futures and options turnover last month was 822,378contracts, down from January's 881,778, but sharply above thecomparative February 1986 figure of 463,146 lots, it said.    Eurodollar turnover during February was 140,417 lots,against January's 100,941 and the year ago figure of 81,648.The daily average was a record 7,020 lots, up four pct from theprevious record, set in March 1985.    February trading encompassed a new daily record of 66,087contracts on the 19th of the month, exceeding the previousrecord of 61,398, which had been set on February 6, LIFFE said.    FT-SE 100 index futures volume was sharply higher duringFebruary, with 22,109 contracts trading, against January's15,279 and the year-ago level of 8,181.    Open interest also set new records last month inEurodollars at 29,372 contracts, in FT-SE 100 at 4,898 and inshort sterling interest rate futures at 19,846 lots.    Key futures volumes as detailed by LIFFE were:                 Feb'87   Jan'87    Feb'86 Long gilt      424,865  525,354   134,420 Eurodollar     140,417  100,941    81,648 Short sterling  94,720   87,619    67,640 T-bond          84,694   87,980   133,766 FT-SE           22,109   15,279     8,181 Currencies       2,799    2,112     7,737 Short gilt          74       85     6,516    Key options volumes as detailed by LIFFE were:              Feb'87    Jan'87     Feb'86 Long gilt     44,640    54,329     ---- Eurodollar     3,580     1,720     2,844 T-bond         1,737     3,479     ---- Sterling       1,466     2,223    18,191 FT-SE          1,277       657     ---- Total options 52,700    62,408    23,238    (Long gilt, T-bond and FT-SE index options were not tradingin February 1986). Reuter
YIELD FALLS ON 30-DAY SAMA DEPOSITS The yield on 30-day bankers securitydeposit accounts issued this week by the Saudi Arabian MonetaryAgency (SAMA) fell to 5.84073 pct from 6.21950 last Saturday,bankers said.    SAMA increased the offer price on the 900 mln riyal issueto 99.51563 from 99.48438. One-month interbank riyal depositswere quoted today at 6-1/4, six pct.    SAMA offers a total of 1.9 billion riyals each week in 30,91 and 180-day paper to banks in the Kingdom. REUTER
ASIAN DOLLAR ASSETS EXCEED 200 BILLION DLRS The Asian dollar market continued toexpand in December with total assets and liabilities rising to200.60 billion U.S. Dlrs from 188.54 billion in November and155.37 billion in December 1985, the Monetary Authority ofSingapore said.    It said the increase came mainly from interbank activity,with interbank lending rising to 146.61 billion dlrs inDecember from 134.76 billion in November and 104.93 billion inDecember 1985.    Interbank deposits increased to 158.52 billion dlrs against147.95 billion and 120.03 billion, respectively.    Loans to non-bank customers increased in December to 38.74billion dlrs from 38.64 billion in November and 37.44 billionin December 1985.    Deposits by non-bank customers rose to 33.81 billion dlrsagainst 33.60 billion and 28.02 billion. REUTER
NEW DUTCH ADVANCES TOTAL 6.5 BILLION GUILDERS The Dutch central bank said it hasaccepted bids totalling 6.5 billion guilders at tender for neweleven-day special advances at 5.3 pct covering the periodMarch 9 to 20 aimed at relieving money market tightness.    Subscriptions to 500 mln guilders were met in full, amountsabove 500 mln at 35 pct.    The new facility replaces old seven-day advances worth 4.8billion guilders at the same rate. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST AT 250 MLN STG The Bank of England said it forecast ashortage of around 250 mln stg in the money market today.    Among the factors affecting liquidity, it said billsmaturing in official hands and the treasury bill take-up woulddrain around 1.02 billion stg while below target bankers'balances would take out a further 140 mln.    Against this, a fall in the note circulation would add 345mln stg and the net effect of exchequer transactions would bean inflow of some 545 mln stg, the Bank added. REUTER
BANK OF FRANCE SETS MONEY MARKET TENDER The Bank of France said it invited offersof first category paper today for a money market interventiontender.    Money market dealers said conditions seemed right for theBank to cut its intervention rate at the tender by a quarterpercentage point to 7-3/4 pct from eight, reflecting an easingin call money rate last week, and the French franc's steadinesson foreign exchange markets since the February 22 currencystabilisation accord here by the Group of Five and Canada.    Intervention rate was last raised to eight pct from 7-1/4on January 2. Call money today was quoted at 7-11/16 7-3/4 pct. REUTER
POEHL SAYS FURTHER RATE CUT POSSIBLE - SOURCES Bundesbank president Karl Otto Poehltold a closed investment symposium that West Germany could cutleading interest rates again if the United States makes asimilar move, banking sources said.    The sources were reporting Poehl's remarks at a symposiumin Duesseldorf last week organised by Deutsche Bank Ag. Pressrepresentatives were not invited.    The sources, speaking separately, said Poehl told about 200bankers in reply to questions that a cut in U.S. Interest rateswould give room for a matching measure in Germany.    "It was a definite hint at lower German interest rates," saidone banker who attended the symposium.    A Bundesbank spokesman said the central bank would have nocomment on the reported remarks, made at the private meeting.    But, according to a second source, who also declined to beidentified, Poehl's comments were seen by bankers present as adirect pointer to further moves by the central bank to defendGerman industry from an additional revaluation of the mark.    "He said if the Americans drop their interest rates then theBundesbank would also drop them. He said that quite clearly,"the second source said.    In reply to questions, Poehl also said the half-point cutin the discount and Lombard rates on January 22 came after theU.S. Had signalled it would be prepared to attend a meeting todiscuss the level of the dollar on condition Germany made sucha move in advance, the sources said.    Asked if American authorities could have been persuaded, bycuts in German rates, to come to the bargaining table as earlyas last September, one of the sources quoted Poehl as saying,"No, they wouldn't have been. We checked that."    The Paris meeting of the Group of Six industrial nationstook place exactly one month after the German cut in rates.    Poehl emphasised in his comments the very close talksbetween central banks before and after the G-6 meeting, sayingthat financial markets had not fully realised the significanceof the Paris session and the U.S. Agreement to stem furtherfalls in the value of the dollar, the sources said.    For the first time all participants at the summit agreedthat a further fall in the dollar would be harmful for allworld economies, including the U.S., Poehl had said.    The sources said the tone of Poehl's comments boostedgrowing sentiment that the dollar would be stabilised aroundcurrent levels by international central bank cooperation.    One source said Poehl's remarks also underlined the factthat the Bundesbank was now more prepared to be accommodativein monetary policy in order to prevent a further slowdown inWest Germany's economic growth.    Poehl and other Bundesbank officials have in the paststressed that the German central bank had no directresponsibility for growth and was solely concerned withcombatting inflation.    This led, for instance, to the introduction of a tightermonetary stance from the beginning of December until thehalf-point cut in rates in late January.    The sources quoted Poehl as saying that the currentovershooting of the German monetary target would not directlyrespark inflation. The Bundesbank was not obliged to reactimmediately whenever such overshooting occurs.    Latest data for central bank money stock, the Bundesbank'smain measure of money supply, showed the measure was growing at7-1/2 pct in January, outside its three to six pct 1987 target.    Share prices rose in very active trading today, withdealers reporting that Poehl's remarks, coupled with a bullishoutlook on stock prices from Deutsche at the same symposium,brought in strong bargain hunting at current low levels. REUTER
BONN SERIOUS ABOUT CURRENCY PACT, SAYS TIETMEYER West Germany takes "very seriously" therecent undertaking by major industrial countries to promoteexchange rate stability around current levels, Finance MinistryState Secretary Hans Tietmeyer said.    Talking to journalists before a meeting of EuropeanCommunity Economy and Finance Ministers here, Tietmeyerdeclined to say whether the February 22 Paris accord by theGroup of Five countries plus Canada included secret agreementsfor stabilising currencies.    But he noted the official communique said the participantsagreed to cooperate closely to foster stability of exchangerates around current levels. "We're taking this sentence veryseriously," he said.    Tietmeyer remarked that the dollar had hardly moved againstthe mark since the meeting.    He said a slowdown in West German economic growth had beencaused by sharp exchange rate swings and that the Parisagreement should help in this respect.    Economics Ministry State Secretary Otto Schlecht said theBonn government saw no current need for measures to bolster theeconomy but was paying close attention to the slower growth andhad not ruled out "appropriate and timely" action if necessary.    Schlecht and Tietmeyer were speaking ahead of a discussionby the EC ministers of the latest EC Commission report on theeconomic situation in the 12-nation bloc.    The Commission has sharply revised down expected Germangross national product growth this year to two pct from 3.2 pctpredicted last autumn and says Bonn has the most room of any ECcountry to stimulate economic activity.    Schlecht said the upturn in West Germany's economy slowedin the fourth quarter of last year and the first quarter of1987. But he said there was no cumulative downwards trend inview that would make quick remedial action necessary.    He said a number of favourable indicators such as highlevel of investment and a good climate for consumption meant arecovery could be expected, while exports would pick upslightly during the course of the year. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER HELP AT NEW RATES The Bank of England said it provided themarket with further assistance during the afternoon, buyingbills worth 166 mln stg at the lower rates introduced thismorning.    It bought 45 mln stg of local authority bills plus 27 mlnstg of bank bills in band one at 10-3/8 pct together with 94mln stg of band two bank bills at 10-5/16 pct.    The bank also revised its estimate of the market shortageup to 300 mln stg from 250 mln this morning. It has given totalassistance of 213 mln stg today. REUTER
 Bank of France said it cut money market intervention rate to 7-3/4 pct from e Southern Co said it will take anafter-tax charge of 226 mln dlrs against earnings no later thanJanuary 1988 because the projected cost of the Vogtle nuclearpower plant has risen abover the amount which retail customersin Georgia will be asked to pay.    The company's largest subsidiary, Georgia Power Co, saidthe budget for the plant has increased by 6.3 pct, or 522 mlndlrs, to 8.87 billion. However, because of a pledge the madelast year to Georgia's Public Service Commission, the increasedcost will not be included in the utility's retail electricrates.    Geogia Power also said its board has delayed the scheduledcompletion of Vogtle's Unit Two to June 1989 from September1988. Unit Two is about 60 pct complete, it added.    The utility said fuel loading has been completed at UnitOne and the unit is being put through a series of low-powertests before the Nuclear Regulatory Commission is asked for afull-power license.    The nuclear power plant, located near Waynesboro, Ga., isco-owned by <Oglethorpe Power Corp>, the Municipal ElectricAuthority of Georgia and the city of Dalton.    Georgia Power said the revised Vogtle budget estimate wasdue to several factors, including additional labor costsincurred to keep the plant's first unit on schedule forcommercial operation by June. The new figure represents thefirst change in the plant's budget since August 1985, when itwas estimated at 8.35 billion dlrs.    In March 1986, the utility told Georgia regulators it would"cap" the price of Vogtle its customers would be asked to payat 3.56 billion dlrs, the company's share of the then projected8.35 billion dlr total. Under the new budget, Georgia Powersaid, its share amounts to 3.87 billion dlrs.    Noting that Georgia Power's share of the Vogtle increase is313 mln dlrs, Southern said this will result in a chargeagainst earnings of 177 mln dlrs after taxes.    In addition, the company said, Georgia Power's contractswith the joint owners require the utility to buy backsignificant amounts of Vogtle capacity during the plant'sinitial years of operation. Under terms of the cap on costs, itwill not attempt to recover the portion of the budget increasethat applies to the buybacks.    This bings the total amount that must be charged againstearnings to 2326 mln dlrs after taxes, Southern said.    Southern said new rules of the Financial AccountingStandards Board, which are effective in January 1988, requireany costs that are determined nonrecoverable to be chargedagainst earnings once that determination is made.    The company also said its board has approved a capitalbudget of 2.1 billion dlrs in 1987, including work on theVogtle project.    It said a 5.9 billion dlr capita budget for the three-yearperiod 1987-1989 was also outlined at the board meeting, notingthis is 700 mln dlrs below the comparable figure for the years1986-1988. Reuter
OECD TRADE, GROWTH SEEN SLOWING IN 1987 The 24 nations of the Organisation forEconomic Cooperation and Development (OECD), hampered bysluggish industrial output and trade, face slower economicgrowth, and their joint balance of payments will swing intodeficit in 1987, the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU ) said.    The EIU said in its World Trade Forecast it revised OECDeconomic growth downwards to 2.5 pct this year, compared with a2.8 pct growth forecast in December.    It said the new areas of weakness are West Germany and thesmaller European countries it influences, and Japan, hardesthit by currency appreciation this year.    The independent research organisation cut its 1987 growthrate forecasts for West Germany to 2.2 pct from 3.2 pct inDecember and to 2.3 pct from three pct for Japan.    It said it expected the OECD to post a current accountdeficit of some 13 billion dlrs in both 1987 and 1988, due inlarge part to a 1.50 dlrs a barrel rise in 1987 oil prices.    It said the U.S. Current account deficit looked likely tofall even more slowly than forecast, to 125 billion dlrs in1987 and 115 billion in 1988 from 130 billion in 1986.    It said it expected West Germany to post a 31 billion dlrpayments surplus and Japan a 76 billion dlr surplus this year.    The EIU said it saw oil prices dropping to around 16.50dlrs a barrel by end-1987 and 15.50 dlrs in 1988 from about 18dlrs last year, as adherence to OPEC output policy becomesincreasingly ragged.    It said the dollar is poised to resume its decline inforeign exchange markets, and will lose a further 13 pct on itstrade-weighted index this year and five pct in 1988 after lastyear's 18.4 pct drop.    The average mark/dollar rate is put at 1.80 marks this yearand 1.70 in 1988 while the yen/dollar rate is expected to breakthrough the 150 yen barrier with an average value of 150 yen in1987 and 146 yen in 1988, it said.    "This is not a crash scenario but the dollar's steeper angleof descent increases the risk of ending with a fireball ratherthan a three-point landing," the EIU said.    "Talking will not stop the dollar's slide for long and theFebruary meeting (of finance ministers of the Group of Five andCanada) produced scant promise of either a decisive shift tomore expansive policies in West Germany and Japan, or a tighterU.S. Fiscal policy," it said.    It said the key to the dollar's fortunes was thewillingness of Japanese institutions to buy U.S. Governmentassets despite prospects of sustaining a currency loss.    "Thus far they have been willing," the EIC said, adding thatif Japan was deterred from buying U.S. Bonds the dollar wouldcollapse.    To contain such a currency crisis, dollar interest rateswould have to soar, bringing recession and a Third World debtcrisis, it said.    On trade, the EIU said prospects for 1987 look "increasinglysick."    Import growth, forecast in December at 4.5 pct, is now seenslowing down to around 3.8 pct in 1987 with a recovery only to4.2 pct in 1988, it said.    The weakness of the West German economy is the biggestsingle factor, with import growth there expected to feature asluggish 3.5 pct growth in 1987 against the 6.5 pct forecast inDecember, the EIU said.    On the export side, it said it saw weak demand in WestGermany affecting export prospects elsewhere in Europe, whileJapan's exports in 1987 would remain flat and sales by U.S.Exporters would respond only marginally to a lower, morecompetitively-priced dollar.    It said in most of Europe and in Japan, raw materials andoil will cost less in domestic currency in 1987 than in 1986.    However, rates of inflation will edge up in 1988 to overthe current OECD average of three pct. Non-oil commodity priceswill show a modest dollar price increase in 1988 for the firsttime since 1984, the EIU said.    After a rise of 18 pct in 1986, the dollar price ofinternationally traded manufactures will go up by 8.5 pct in1987 and by five pct in 1988, it said.    It said OECD industrial production would rise by only 1.6pct in 1987 after a weak 1.5 pct increase in 1986. Reuter
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN LATE HELP WORTH 15 MLN STG The Bank of England said it provided themarket with unspecified late assistance worth 15 mln stg.    It has given the market total assistance of 228 mln stgtoday compared with a liquidity shortage it estimated at arevised 300 mln stg. REUTER
BANK OF FRANCE CUTS INTERVENTION RATE The Bank of France said it cut its moneymarket intervention rate to 7-3/4 pct from eight pct when itinjected money against first category paper.    The bank also cut its seven-day repossession rate to 8-1/2pct from 8-3/4 pct.    The intervention rate has stood at eight pct since it wasraised from 7-1/4 pct on January 2 as the French franc cameunder pressure ahead of the EMS realignment on January 11.    The bank said the purchase, effective tomorrow, is for fivepct of private paper and fixed rate Treasury bills maturingbetween March 25 and June 25 and of other Treasury billsmaturing between March 25, 1987 and March 25, 1989.    The rate cut had been expected since the bank announced amoney market intervention tender earlier today.    Money market dealers said conditions seemed right for aquarter percentage point cut, reflecting an easing in the callmoney rate last week, and the French franc's steadiness onforeign exchange markets since the February 22 currencystabilisation accord here by the Group of Five and Canada. REUTER
TURKISH CENTRAL BANK SETS LIRA/DOLLAR, DM RATES The Turkish Central Bank set aLira/Dollar rate for March 10 of 773.05/776.92 to the Dollar,down from the previous 769.60/773.45.    The Bank also set a Lira/Mark rate of 417.20/419.29 to theMark, up from the previous 419.15/421.25.
FED EXPECTED TO ADD TEMPORARY RESERVES The Federal Reserve is expected tointervene in the government securities market to add temporaryreserves via customer repurchase agreements, economists said.    Most economists said the Fed will add 1.5 to two billiondlrs of temporary reserves via customer repurchase agreements,but some said there is a slim chance the Fed will injectpermanent reserves via three-day system repurchase agreements.    Federal funds opened at 6-1/16 pct and firmed to 6-1/8 pctin early trading. Funds averaged six pct on Friday. Reuter
UK MONEY RATES FALL AS BANK APPROVES BASE RATE CUT A half point cut in base lending rateswas announced by the big four clearing banks today after theBank of England finally endorsed such a move following weeks ofdownward pressure, dealers said.    During its routine intervention in the market, the banktrimmed the rates at which it deals with the discount houses byhalf a point and National Westminster led the other clearingbanks in reducing its base rate to 10-1/2 pct from 11 pct.    The timing of the Bank of England move took operators bysurprise after its recent action seemingly designed to dampenhopes of a base rate cut ahead of the U.K. Budget on March 17.       For some time, fundamentals haveled the market to push for a one point cut in base lendingrates to 10 pct but the central bank has declined to followwholesale money market rates down.    Although political considerations -- the government's wishto see a fall in base rates coincide with the Budget -- hadbeen suggested by operators last week as reasons for the Bank'sdelaying action, worries about the real strength of sterlingand perhaps about the market's reaction to the content of theBudget may have been behind the central bank's caution, dealerssaid.    In the event, sterling continued firm after the rate cut,leaving the market still looking for another half point fall.    Consequently, rates in the money market eased during theday, one-month interbank sterling shedding 5/16 point to10-9/16 7/16 and three-months trading 1/16 point down at10-5/16 3/16 pct. Sterling cd's were similarly down between5/16 point in one month and 1/8 point in one year.    Overnight interbank money for tomorrow was indicated ataround 11 pct, almost a point below the levels ruling at theend of last week. Today, overnight touched a high of some11-3/4 pct after the Bank took out 228 mln stg of an estimated300 mln stg shortage. REUTER
FED SETS 2.5 BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE,  Royal Bank of Canada <RT.TO>  said itis extending its discount brokerage service which has beenavailable to Ontario residents since last year, to Quebecinvestors.    The bank said the success of the Ontario service is alsoprompting it to consider making the service available inseveral other provinces.    Royal Bank said the service offers cuts of up to 75 pct onstandard brokerage commissions, toll-free, up-to-the-minutestock quotes, and margin loans in U.S. or Canadian dollars atcompetitive rates. Reuter
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange 2.5 billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.    Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/16 pct whenthe Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves tothe banking system. Reuter
BANK OF ZAMBIA PAYS OUT FOREIGN CURRENCY ARREARS The Bank of Zambia has paid out foreignexchange arrears from three auctions conducted last year, abank spokesman said.    "We have now cleared three auctions and are left with onlyfour, worth eight mln dlrs," the spokesman said withoutspecifying the amount paid out.    The bank had not paid foreign exchange to private firmssince it suspended the weekly auctions on January 28.    It has said the auctions were suspended because it plannedto introduce a modified system after talks with the World Bankand the International Monetary Fund.    President Kenneth Kaunda announced last month that theauction would be retained for allocating foreign exchange toapproved private sector bidders, but would not be used todetermine the kwacha's exchange rate.    Last week, he said the auction had run into trouble becauseof a shortage of foreign exchange.    The government has fixed the exchange rate at nine kwachaper dollar, effectively revaluing the kwacha by 67.7 pct. REUTER
USX <X> CHAIRMAN CALLS FOR LOWER DOLLAR USX Corp chairman David Roderick calledfor a lower value for the U.S. dollar against other currenciesto help speed a correction in the U.S. trade deficit, whichlast year reached 170 billion dlrs.    In remarks prepared for a speech before the Economic Clubof Detroit, Roderick said, "There should be total resolve thatthe dollar versus other major currencies, as well as thecurrencies of other nations having a substantial trade surpluswith us, must continue to decline so that the correction in ourtrade deficit starts on the road to recovery."    Roderick said the U.S. should be understanding of the"economic pain" our trading partners experience as a result ofa falling dollar.    But, he added, "As painful as the correction may be to ourtrading partners, it is less painful than leaving the problemuncorrected because that would lead us into an inevitable,lengthy and steep world recession."    Roderick said between February 1985 and December 1986 thedollar fell by more than 40 pct in real terms against majorindustrial currencies and by 30 to 35 pct against a broadergroup of currencies of nearly all developing nations.    At the end of 1986, he said, the value of foreign assets inthe U.S. exceeded the value of U.S. assets abroad by 240billion dlrs, compared to five years ago when the U.S. had asurplus in assets of 141 billion. A company spokesman said thedata were provided by economic consultants to USX.    The primary reason for the trade imbalance was the 70 pctrise of the dollar between 1980 and 1985, although otherfactors were involved, Roderick said. But it is wrong, he said,"to attribute the massive trade deficit to a fundmentaldeterioration of U.S. productivity or of American productquality."    These areas need to be improved but they are not the rootcause of the trade gap problem, Roderick said. He urgedAmerican manufacturers to become more competitive so they cancompete in global markets.    In the speech, the USX chairman also called for changes insecurities laws to curb what he called abuses by corporateraiders and speculators.    Among his proposals, which he presented to the SenateBanking Committee in testimony last week, were a requirementthat raiders give 24-hour notice for every one pct of stockthey acquire in a company.    Roderick proposed that tender offers must be made for allcash to all stockholders on equal terms and that raiders berequired to have financing in place before a tender is made.    Further, raiders should be required to make an all-cashtender offer once they acquire 10 pct of a target company'sstock, he said. And payment of greenmail, or a preferentialprice by a target company to buy back a raider's stake, shouldbe prohibited under the revised laws.    Roderick said changes were necessary to curb abuses butthat he did not want laws that would hurt the financial marketsor discourage "fair price to all" takeovers. Reuter
CENTRAL BANKERS SATISFIED WITH PARIS ACCORD Central bankers said theywere generally satisfied with the response to the Paris accordtwo weeks ago to stabilize currencies at around current levels.    Speaking after a meeting at the Bank for InternationalSettlements (BIS), which reviewed the agreement, they alsowelcomed interest rates cuts in France and today's drop inBritish rates.  One top official said the rate cuts would helpto stimulate growth generally in Europe and welcomed thatcountries other than West Germany were seen to be helpingsustain the economy.     The central bankers, who spoke on the condition they not benamed, said the meeting of governors from the Group of 10countries also heard a report from Michel Camdessus, the newmanaging director of the International Monetary Fund, on theIMF's latest assessment of the debt crisis. In particular, theydiscussed Brazil's debt moratorium.    But there was no sense of urgency, they said, and Brazilhad made no appeal for bridging loans from the BIS or centralbanks. Reuter
U.S. PAYMENTS GAP TO PERSIST, EX-FED CHIEF SAYS The dollar will decline over the nexttwo to three years, but this is unlikely to result in acomplete reduction of the U.S. current account deficit, saidAnthony Solomon, chairman of S.G. Warburg (USA) Inc and formerpresident of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.    In a presentation to the Japan Society, Solomon saidwithout elaboration that he expects a "significant decline inthe dollar," within the next three years.    "The dollar will fall more, but the current account deficitwill stop being reduced when it reaches its structural core,"he said.    Solomon described the structural core as about one-half ofthe current 150 billion dlr annual deficit. He cited severalfactors which will prevent an elimination of the deficit.    For one thing, it is unlikely that there will be any newinvestment in those manufacturing industries that shrank whenthe dollar was at uncompetitive levels, he said.    In addition, he said that the U.S. has an increasedpropensity to import in order to satisify consumer tastes.    Solomon forecast inflation at 4.5 pct by year-end, but saidit could be kept below five pct in the medium-term if oilprices are stable and commodity values remain low. Reuter
WORLD BANK REPORT CRITICISES PERU ECONOMIC PLAN A confidential World Bank report on thePeruvian economy has said the government's strategy does notoffer good prospects for medium and long-term growth and islikely to lead to an early renewal of inflationary pressure.    The report, published today by the economic monthly, ThePeru Report, said the success of president Alan Garcia'sgovernment in stimulating output last year to achieve a growthin gross domestic product of over eight pct "represents gains inthe short term at the expense of the long."    Government officials had no immediate comment on thereport, which advised a reduction in the overall size of thepublic investment program and greater emphasis on thepreservation of Peru's export potential.    The report said that although the government had succeededin cutting inflation from 250 pct a year in the first half of1985 to under 70 pct, its stabilisation and reactivationprogram was encountering rising difficulties.    "An early renewal of inflationary pressures, linked tomonetary expansion, exchange rate devaluation and an easing ofprice controls, appears not improbable," it added.    The world bank report said the government's policies hadreduced inflation and short-term increases in consumption atthe apparent cost of price distortions, overvaluation of thecurrency, balance of payments disequilibrium, reserve losses,and sharply diminished creditworthiness.    It said unless the government took action quickly to fix acompetitive exchange rate and control the public sectordeficit, "the higher the probability will be that the governmentwill eventually have to resort to drastic curtailment ofdomestic demand and either sharp devaluation or still furthercontrols on imports in order to stem inflation and support thebalance of payments."    It said the bank would place more emphasis on thepreservation of peru's export potential, external links andoverall economic efficiency.    The government's incentive policies towards the mining andpetroleum sectors, among its main traditional exports,suggested that it did not accord high priority to theireconomic viability, it added. Reuter
U.S. INTERVENED TO BUY 50 MLN DLRS AGAINST YEN ON JANUARY 28,  CTS Corp said it increased its1986 loss from continuing operations to 26.6 mln dlrs from thepreviously announced 23.8 mln dlrs loss.    The 1986 figure was increased to include expenses involvedwith its settlement of a dispute with Dynamics Corp of America<DYA>.    The settlement involved a takeover bid for CTS by DynamicsCorp, which had offered to buy the shares of CTS that it didnot already own.    CTS made a profit of 7.9 mln dlrs from continuingoperations in 1985.    CTS said it charged an additional 2.8 mln dlrs in specialexpenses to its 1986 operations as a result of the DynamicsCorp settlement.    The additional expenses include the obligation to reimburseDynamics Corp, subject to approval of CTS shareholders, a totalof 2.1 mln dlrs for Dynamics Corp's expenses and other costsrelating to CTS. Reuter
U.S. INTERVENED TO AID DLR IN JANUARY, FED SAYS U.S. authorities intervened in theforeign exchange market to support the dollar on one occasionduring the period between the start of November 1986 and theend of January, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said in areport.    The Fed's quarterly review of foreign exchange operationssaid that the U.S. bought 50 mln dlrs through the sale of yenon January 28. This operation was coordinated with the Japanesemonetary authorities and was funded equally by the Fed and theU.S. Treasury.    The Fed's intervention was on the morning after presidentReagan's State of the Union message and was "in a mannerconsistent with the joint statement" made by U.S. Treasurysecretary James Baker and Japanese finance minister KiichiMiyazawa after their January 21 consultations.    At that meeting, the two reaffirmed their willingness tocooperate on exchange rate issues.    The Fed's report did not say at what level the interventionoccurred. But on January 28, the dollar closed at 151.50/60 yenafter dipping as low as 150.40 yen earlier in the session. Ithad closed at 151.05/15 yen the previous day.    The dollar had plumbed a post-World War II low of 149.98yen on January 19 and reached a seven-year low of 1.7675 markson January 28. It ended that day at 1.7820/30 marks.    The Fed noted that, after trading steadily throughoutNovember and the first half of December, the dollar movedsharply lower until the end of January.    It closed the three-month review period down more than 11pct against the mark and most other Continental currencies andseven pct lower against the yen and sterling. It had fallenfour pct against the Canadian dollar.    During the final days of January, pressure on the dollarsubsided. Reports of the U.S.-Japanese intervention operationand talk of an upcoming meeting of the major industrialcountries encouraged expectations for broader cooperation onexchange rate and economic policy matters, the Fed said.    Moreover, doubts had developed about the course of U.S.interest rates. The dollar's swift fall had raised questionsabout whether the Fed would let short-term rates ease.    Thus the dollar firmed to close the period at 1.8320 marksand 153.70 yen. According to the Fed's trade-weighted index, ithad declined nine pct since the beginning of the period.    The dollar had risen as high as 2.08 marks and 165 yen inearly November.    The Fed last intervened in the foreign exchange market onNovember 7, 1985 when it bought a total of 102.2 mln dlrs worthof marks and yen.    The Fed's action followed the September 1985 Plazaagreement between the five major industrial nations under whichthey agreed to promote an orderly decline of the dollar. Reuter
MIYAZAWA SAYS PARIS ACCORD HELPING STABILISE RATES Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said theParis currency accord has contributed to the stability ofexchange rates.    Miyazawa told a press conference the agreement reached lastmonth in Paris by six major industrial nations to cooperate inbringing about currency stability has prevented speculativeconcerns from being active in money centres.    The decision in Paris is being understood by the market, hesaid. The yen-dollar exchange rate has been moving in a narrowrange since finance ministers of Britain, Canada, France,Japan, the U.S. And West Germany reached the accord. REUTER
AUSTRALIAN RESERVE BANK IN BUYING INTERVENTION The Reserve Bank said at 1230 local timeit was offering to buy short-dated government securities in theshort-term money market.    The bank's action followed its purchase of short-datedgovernment stock and six-day repurchase agreements earlier inthe session.    Money market traders said the move was aimed at easing cashmarket interest rates which had risen on demand for funds tomeet PAYE tax and treasury note settlement commitments. REUTER
CHINA ALLOWS NATIONWIDE FOREIGN EXCHANGE SAVING People throughout China can now openforeign exchange accounts at the Bank of China, the officialShenzhen Economic Zone Daily said.    Previously only residents of Guangdong and Fujian provincescould do this.    The paper also said the minimum for opening a fixed depositaccount had been cut to 50 yuan equivalent, from 150 yuan. Theminimum for a current account is 20 yuan equivalent.    The paper said depositors could now withdraw all or part oftheir account, subject to a branch's reserves, instead of onlya fixed amount as previously.    The paper said deposits may now be opened in French francsas well as the already available U.S. Dollar, Hong Kong dollar,sterling, yen and marks.    Bank of China branches in Hainan island also acceptdeposits in Singapore dollars, and those in Wenzhou, Zhejiangprovince, accept deposits in Dutch guilders, the paper said.    It gave no further details. REUTER
HUNGARY TO DEVALUE FORINT AGAINST WESTERN UNITS Hungary is to devalue the forint by anaverage of eight pct against Western currencies, the officialnews agency MTI said.    MTI did not say when the devaluation would becomeeffective, but it expected new rates to be announced latertoday.    Hungary devalued the forint by a similar amount lastSeptember 23. Western bankers say the forint is morerealistically valued than currencies of Hungary's COMECONallies. REUTER
BELGIAN CENTRAL BANK BUYS CURRENCY TO REPAY DEBT The Belgian National Bank boughtforeign currencies against francs on the open market in theweek ended March 9, a Bank spokesman said.    In line with central bank policy he declined to give anydetails of the amount bought.    The foreign currency purchased was used by the Treasury torepay foreign debt and did not affect the Bank's foreignexchange reserves. They slipped 394 mln francs to 37.33billion, mostly due to sales of dollars for Special DrawingRights, the spokesman said. REUTER
INDONESIAN BANKS RAISE INTEREST RATES A tight money market has pushedinterest rates on three to six month time deposits to between15 and 18 pct from 13 to 15 pct a month ago, bankers said.    March is usually a tight month for the money market becauseof tax payments and banks' need to attract funds for theiryear-end accounts on March 31.    This year the situation has been made worse by December'srush to buy dollars by companies and businessmen who fearedimposition of exchange controls. Much of that outflow has yetto be converted back into rupiah.    "A lot of small money has come back in, but the big money isholding out until after April," one U.S. Banker said.    The tight money policy of Bank Indonesia, the central bank,is helping to keep rates high.    Short-term lending rates now average 25 pct a year, with noprospect they will be lowered soon, the bankers said.    Central Bank governor Arifin Siregar said earlier this weekthat Indonesia could look forward to better economic prospectsin 1987/88, but added the "speculators" who led a run on therupiah late last year could again pose problems.    Indonesia holds general elections on April 23, the first infive years, and most businessmen expect no new governmenteconomic packages or incentives before then.    "Some people are nervous about what the government will doafter the election," one banker said. "They normally try to dothings before the IGGI (Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia)meeting (in June) to prove they are doing something about theeconomy to show they deserve a couple of billion dollars."    The IGGI, which groups 14 industrialised donor countriesand four agencies, gave Indonesia 2.5 billion dlrs in softloans and grants last year. REUTER
GERMAN CALL MONEY EASES AFTER LIQUIDITY INJECTION Call money eased to 3.75/80 pct from3.80/85 yesterday following a net injection of 6.7 billionmarks at a rate of 3.80 pct in fresh funds from this week'ssecurities repurchase agreement, dealers said.    But rates were expected to rise toward the end of the week.    A major tax payment period by banks on behalf of customers,payments for the federal railways loan stock and repayments ofmark liabilities incurred by foreign central banks with theBundesbank in the framework of the European Monetary System(EMS) are likely to significantly burden the system. Banksbuilt up minimum reserves today, ahead of the expected outflow.    The Bundesbank credited banks with a gross 15.2 billionmarks, but some 8.5 billion left the system at the same time asan earlier securities repurchase pact matured.    Dealers estimated the EMS related outflow as high as sixbillion marks.    The Bundesbank declined to comment, but a spokesman saidyesterday although the funds now due may be allowed to rollover, the possibility that other central banks may choose toredeem them meant a net infusion was needed.    Dealers forecast tax payments of 25 and 30 billion marks,but much of it is expected to burden the system only next week.    Banks' minimum reserve holdings at the Bundesbank totalled53.6 billion marks on Monday, averaging 54.0 billion over thefirst nine days of March.    Dealers said although the figure was well above an expectedrequirement of around 51 billion marks, the expected outflow offunds was so large that banks might find it difficult to meetthe requirement toward the end of March.    No securities repurchase agreement is expiring next week,but dealers said the Bundesbank could offer fresh liquidity ifconditions significantly tighten. "The Bundesbank wants to keeprates around 3.80 pct," one dealer said. REUTER
HUNGARY TO DEVALUE FORINT AGAINST WESTERN UNITS Hungary is to devalue the forint by anaverage of eight pct against Western currencies, the officialnews agency MTI said.    MTI did not say when the devaluation would becomeeffective, but it expected new rates to be announced latertoday.    Hungary devalued the forint by a similar amount lastSeptember 23. Western bankers say the forint is morerealistically valued than currencies of Hungary's COMECONallies. REUTER
JAPAN CANNOT BEAR FURTHER YEN RISE, MINISTER SAYS Japan cannot bear a further rise of theyen, Foreign Minister Tadashi Kuranari said.    "A further stronger yen would be a misfortune for Japan andthe Japanese people would not be able to bear such a burden," hetold reporters.    The minister said he wants to tell U.S. Political leadersof the sacrifices Japan is making to cut its trade surplus.    Kuranari was widely expected to fly to Washington tomorrowfor talks focussing on trade. But departure remains uncertainbecause of the continuing parliamentary boycott by oppositionparties protesting plans for a new sales tax.    If the boycott is lifted tomorrow, Kuranari would probablyhave to remain in Japan to attend parliamentary discussions onthe government's 1987/88 budget, Japanese officials said.    Kuranari said both the U.S. And Japan should approach thetrade imbalance in a calm, unemotional manner.    But, he added, "If the issue of rice is to be raised...Iwould mention the feelings of the Japanese people."    Japanese politicians have said repeatedly the countrycannot bow to U.S. Pressure to liberalize rice imports becausethe issue is too sensitive. REUTER
BANK OF ENGLAND DOES NOT INTERVENE IN MONEY MARKET The Bank of England said it did notoperate in the money market during the morning.    Initially, the bank forecast a liqudity shortage of some300 mln stg for the market today.    Overnight interbank sterling traded at the 11-1/4 1/8 pctlevel for most of the morning while period rates have eased onthe strength of sterling, dealers said. At 1200 gmt, sterling'strade-weighted index was up 0.6 at 72.7. REUTER
POUND AND CANADIAN DOLLAR CAPTURING ATTENTION Interest in the currency futures markethas shifted to the soaring British pound and the potentiallyexplosive Canadian dollar, and away from the dull Continentaland Japanese currencies, analysts said.    The June pound, which added 6.3 cents over the pastweek-and-a-half to reach a new contract high of 1.5930 to thedollar on Monday, has spawned a new-found speculative boom.    "Brokers have to push their clients somewhere...andtechnically, the pound is in the best shape," PaineWebberanalyst Jason Gillard said.    "We've tried to take a bullish approach to the pound, andwe're going to stay with that, there's no reason to change,"Smith Barney analyst Craig Sloane said.    Many traders took on long pound/short West German markfutures positions, although some of those cross-trades wereliquidated yesterday, Sloane said.     The fundamental keys to the pound's rise have beenrelatively high U.K. interest rates and a vague optimismsurrounding the British economy, analysts said.    "Money seems to be chasing yields," William Byers, of BearStearns, said of the 10-1/2 pct U.K. base lending rate.    Many analysts are skeptical about further gains in thepound, on the inference that the Bank of England will seek torelieve upward pressure on the currency by pushing downinterest rates after the nation's budget is released March 17.    The budget itself could have an impact, depending on howwell it is received, but analysts say relative interest ratesand oil income remain the main influences on the currency.    However, the market may be able to absorb lower U.K.interest rates, as it has done when other countries have cuttheir discount rates, and extend the pound's rally, Sloanesaid.    The Canadian dollar has not been rising like the pound, butSloane and other analysts cautiously predicted a big move soon.    The sideways price pattern in the June contract, withsmaller and smaller price ranges, has formed a "bull flag" onprice charts, technically-oriented analysts said.    "It makes for an explosive type of situation that oftenleads to a breakout," in this case to the upside, Sloane said.    Byers agreed there was potential for the June Canadiandollar to rally above the 77.00 cent level from the most recentclose at 74.80 cents to the U.S. dollar.    "At this stage of the game I'd call the market long-termpositive, but for the technical burden of proof you need aclose above (the previous contract high of) 75.25," Byers said.    As to the traditionally more active currencies, stabilitywas the catchword and reluctance the watchword among analysts.    Sloane said it was important that June Swiss francs andJune German marks held above support at 0.6400 and 0.5400,respectively, closing at 0.6438 and 0.5430.    Yesterday's rebound showed the market was still veryrespectful of the Paris accord, and the threat of central bankintervention by the G-5 nations plus Canada.    "We may still probe to see what the parameters are," Byerssaid, "but people are very reluctant because they don't knowwhere the central banks will be (to intervene)."    Gillard said the mark could drop to a previous priceconsolidation area around 0.5250 based on the profoundlysluggish West German economy, but that he would be a buyer atthat level. Reuter
SWISS SIGHT DEPOSITS FALL 2.88 BILLION FRANCS Sight deposits of commercial banks atthe Swiss National Bank fell 2.88 billion Swiss francs in thefirst 10 days of March to 7.65 billion, the National Bank said.    Foreign exchange reserves rose 3.30 billion francs to 33.94billion.    Sight deposits are a major indicator of money marketliquidity in Switzerland.    The National Bank said banks paid back 5.5 billion francsof central bank credit taken out at the end of February for theend-month liquidity requirement.    This drain was offset in part by new currency swaps, whichhad the effect of increasing the National Bank's foreignexchange holdings.    Bank notes in circulation fell 309.1 mln francs to 24.49billion, and other deposits on call -- basically governmentfunds -- rose 1.06 billion to 2.10 billion. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 106 MLN STG ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it gave themoney market assistance worth 106 mln stg this afternoon,buying bank bills at the rates established on Monday.    The Bank bought 11 mln stg of band one bills at 10-3/8 pctand 95 mln stg of band two paper at 10-5/16 pct. This is thefirst time that it has intervened today.    The Bank has revised its estimate of the liquidity shortagein the market down to 250 mln stg from 300 mln initially. REUTER
HUNGARY HOPES DEVALUATION WILL END TRADE DEFICIT National Bank of Hungary firstvice-president Janos Fekete said he hoped a planned eight pctdevaluation of the forint will spur exports and redress lastyear's severe trade deficit with the West.    Fekete told Reuters in an interview Hungary must achieve atleast equilibrium on its hard currency trade.    "It is useful to have a devaluation," he said. "There is now areal push to our exports and a bit of a curb to our imports."    The official news agency MTI said today Hungary woulddevalue by eight pct and it expected the new rates to beannounced later today. Fekete said the rates would come intoeffect tomorrow.    He said one reason for the devaluation was that Hungary hada higher rate of inflation over the past two years than itsmain partners (around eight pct in 1985 and between five and5.5 pct in 1986).    This was partly an after-effect of action Hungary took toprevent inflation from soaring during the oil price shocks ofthe 1970s, he added.    Hungary devalued by a similar amount last September and bybetween three and four pct early last year.    But the country's hard currency trade balance neverthelessfell into a deficit of 539.4 mln dlrs from a surplus of 295.3mln in 1986 and 1.2 billion in 1985.    Fekete said Hungary was hoping for a hard currency tradesurplus of between 200 and 300 mln dlrs this year, but that amore likely outcome would be closer to equilibrium on totalhard currency trade of around 10 billion dlrs.    One Western commercial attache here said: "Devaluation ofitself will not change anything. It will only be useful if theyalso make efforts to restructure industry and improve thequality of their export goods."    Fekete said he hoped to raise credits on good terms thisyear to invest in restructuring industry.    It would be his role to persuade international banks tocooperate in this process. He noted Hungary had been given anAA rating enabling it to raise money on the Japanese Samuraibond market.    Hungary's net hard currency debt soared to 7.79 billiondlrs last year from 5.01 billion in 1985, partly because of acurrent account deficit of 1.42 billion dlrs and partly becausethe fall in the dollar increased the dollar value of debtdenominated in marks or yen.    He said he feared net debt would also rise slightly thisyear, but he was in favour of borrowing for the purpose ofmodernisation.    "I am for credits to invest for that purpose," he said. "I amagainst credits for consumption." He forecast gross domesticproduct growth of two pct this year, from one pct in 1986.   Fekete said Hungary would continue to restructure its debtprofile by prepaying high interest shorter and medium termloans with cheaper long term money for which it was lookingmore and more to the fixed interest rate bond market, where heconsidered rates to be low.    Hard currency foreign exchange reserves would stay ataround 3.5 billion dlrs, he said. On the budget deficit, whichtripled to a provisional 47 billion forints last year afterquadrupling in 1985, Fekete said the finance ministry wasworking out measures to reduce an approved target deficit forthis year of 43.8 billion forints to between 30 and 35 billionforints. REUTER
DEALERS WARY OVER STERLING INTERVENTION RUMOUR Foreign exchange market rumours that thethe Bank of England has been selling sterling to halt its riseprompted a wary response from dealers who said they saw noobvious confirmation, market sources said.    Bank of England officials were not immediately availablefor comment. Earlier this week, the Bank sanctioned a cut inbank interest rates in a surprise move, which aimed at limitingsterling's rise ahead of the March 17 budget.    But today the pound has strengthened to 72.7 on itstrade-weighted index from 72.1 last night, though the U.K.Currency is below its day's high against the dollar. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES The Federal Reserve is expected tointervene in the government securities market to add temporaryreserves via customer or system repurchase agreements,economists said.    Most economists said the Fed will inject reservesindirectly via customer repurchases, but they added that theFed might opt for a direct injection of reserves via overnightsystem repurchases.    Federal funds opened at 6-3/8 pct and eased to 6-5/16 pctin early trading. Funds averaged 6.29 pct yesterday. Reuter
FED SETS TWO BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE,  Shr 19 cts vs 12 cts    Net 850,000 vs 432,000    Sales 9,850,000 vs 4,783,000    Avg shrs 4,504,000 vs 3,527,000    Nine mths    Shr 57 cts vs 37 cts    Net 2,400,000 vs 1,281,000    Sales 25.2 mln vs 12.8 mln    Avg shrs 4,233,000 vs 3,485,000 Reuter
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange two billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.    Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-5/16 pct whenthe Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves tothe banking system. Reuter
TREASURY SECRETARY BAKER DECLINES COMMENT ON G-6 U.S. Treasury Secretary James Bakerdeclined comment on the February 22 Paris accord between thesix major industrial nations under which they agreed to fosterexchange rate stability.    Asked by reporters after a speech before the NationalFitness Foundation banquet what, if any, currency interventionlevels had been set in Paris, Baker replied: "We never talkabout intervention."    Baker also declined to comment on his views about theforeign exchange markets' reaction to the accord. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN EARLY ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it had boughtbills worth 1.059 billion stg from the market for resale onMarch 31 at rates of interest between 10-7/16 pct and 10-17/32pct.    Earlier, the Bank said it estimated the liquidity shortagein the market today at around 1.55 billion stg. REUTER
TAIWAN CLAMPS NEW CONTROLS ON CURRENCY INFLOWS Taiwan's new controls on currencyinflows, implemented today, are a desperate bid to stem a floodof speculative money prompted by the local currency surgeagainst the U.S. Dollar, local and foreign bankers said.    The central bank now has to clear remittances exceeding onemln U.S. Dlrs earned from exports, shipping and insurance andbank lending plus remittances of more than 10,000 dlrs from anyother source.    Petitioners have to show their remittances relate togenuine commercial transactions.    Meanwhile, traders are no longer required to report alloutward payments concerning invisible trade, including freight,insurance and royalties, to the central bank.    But bankers said they believed the new controls would beineffective since businessmen could split up remittances intosmaller units or simply remit money through Taiwan'sflourishing currency black market.    The bankers said the controls, announced on March 6, are apanic reaction to U.S. Pressure, which has intensified over thepast week, for a faster appreciation of the Taiwan dollar toslow the growth of Taiwan's exports to the U.S.    The government has denied local press reports Washington ispressing for an exchange rate of up to 28 dlrs.    The Taiwan dollar opened four cents up today at 34.70.    "I don't think the central bank has a final target," said anexecutive with a U.S. Bank. Other bankers and economists saidthey are wary of making any firm predictions about how far theTaiwan dollar will rise.    Taiwan's trade surplus with the U.S. Hit 13.6 billion U.S.Dlrs last year against 10.2 billion in 1985. The surpluswidened in the first two months of the year to 2.35 billiondlrs from 1.87 billion in the same period last year.    Economists estimate up to five billion dlrs in speculativemoney flowed into Taiwan in 1986.    This inflow helped boost foreign exchange reserves to morethan 51 billion dlrs from just under 25 billion this time lastyear and provided further upward pressure on the currency.    The Taiwan dollar has appreciated by almost 15 pct againstthe U.S. Currency since September 1985, further encouragingspeculators.    Central bank governor Chang Chi-cheng said last weekWashington's pressure plus rising foreign exchange reservesmeant a further strengthening in the currency is inevitable.    Many local bankers argue the only effective solution to thecurrency problem is to drop foreign exchange controls and allowthe local dollar to find its own level.    "Lifting exchange controls is the final answer, but thecentral bank is not prepared to do it. It simply does not wantto take the risk," said one local banker.    He said he believed the new restrictions are a temporarymeasure designed to buy time as the central bank grapples withthe exchange rate problem.    The restrictions are a bureaucratic imposition and skirtaround the real issue, he said.    Taiwan needs a fundamental restructuring of foreignexchange controls, said an executive with a western bank.    "The controls will create more paperwork, but the extra bankcharges will not outweigh the profits of speculation," said themanager of a European bank.    Economists criticised the controls, saying they couldantagonise Washington, which is pushing for further economicliberalisation in Taiwan.    "Instead of liberalising outflows, the government hasrestricted inflows," said Kate Newman, an economist with Vickersda Costa.    A local banker, who declined to be named, said, "It'sbasically ridiculous. It's a backward movement and goes againstthe government's liberalisation programme."    Taiwan last year eased some of its financial regulations toenable Taiwan nationals to invest in foreign government bonds,treasury bills and certificates of deposit and to allowindividuals to take 5,000 U.S. Dlrs in cash out of the countryeach year. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 442 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it provided themarket with a further 442 mln stg assistance during the morningto offset a liquidity shortage it estimated at 1.60 billionstg, revised up from 1.55 billion    The bank bought outright eight mln stg of band one treasurybills and five mln stg of band one bank bills at 10-3/8 pct.    It bought a further 429 mln stg of bills for resale to thediscount houses on April 2 at an interest rate of 10-7/16 pct.    So far today, the bank has given the market assistanceworth a total of 1.501 billion stg. REUTER
TREASURY SECRETARY BAKER DECLINES COMMENT ON G-6 U.S. Treasury Secretary James Bakerdeclined comment on the February 22 Paris accord between thesix major industrial nations under which they agreed to fosterexchange rate stability.    Asked by reporters after a speech before the NationalFitness Foundation banquet what, if any, currency interventionlevels had been set in Paris, Baker replied: "We never talkabout intervention."    Baker also declined to comment on his views about theforeign exchange markets' reaction to the accord. Reuter
BANKERS OPPOSE STRICT TAIWAN CURRENCY CONTROLS Taiwan imposed currency controls todayin what bankers called a desperate move to prevent speculationas the Taiwan dollar appreciated against the U.S. currency.    The strict controls will require proof that largeremittances to Taiwan are connected to commercial transactionsrather than currency speculation.    Bankers attacked the controls as ineffective, saying theywere a panic reaction to pressure from Washington for fasterappreciation of the Taiwan currency against the U.S. dollar,which would slow exports to the United States.    Remittances exceeding one mln dlrs earned through exports,shipping, insurance or bank lending will now need governmentapproval, along with remittances of more than 10,000 dlrs fromany other source. Reuter
UK MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER TWO MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it gave themarket further assistance of two mln stg during the afternoon,buying that amount of band two bank bills at 10-5/16 pct.    The bank has given the market assistance worth 1.503billion stg today to offset a shortage it estimated at arevised 1.60 billion. REUTER
FED NOT EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES The Federal Reserve is not expected tointervene in the government securities market today, severaleconomists said.    They said the Fed does not have a much of an adding needthis week and may wait until tomorrow or Monday beforesupplying reserves.    But a few economists said there was an outside chance thatthe Fed may inject reserves indirectly via a small round ofcustomer repurchase agreements.    Federal funds hovered at 6-1/8 pct this morning afteraveraging 6.32 pct yesterday. Reuter
FED SAYS IT SETS TWO BILLION DLRS OF CUSTOMER REPURCHASE AG The Securities and ExchangeCommission removed a key regulatory obstacle to trading futureson designated foreign debt securities on U.S. exchanges.    The move would allow the Chicago Board of Trade, CBT, toapply to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, CFTC, forapproval of a futures contract on yen bonds.    The CBT has said it may apply for approval of the yen bondfutures contract, a CFTC spokesman said.    The SEC's action, which was approved by a 4-0 vote,specifically removes a regulation against trading futures ondesignated foreign government debt securities on contractmarkets that are not located in the country that issued thosesecurities.    Futures on the government debt securities of Japan, Canadaand Great Britain can already be marketed in the United Statesunder a designated exemption issued by the SEC.    But the new move would permit U.S. exchanges to apply tothe CFTC for approval of establishing futures contracts onthose securities, SEC officials said.    The new SEC move would also allow those foreign governmentdebt securities to be marketed in the United States bycountries other than those that issued the securities, theofficials said.    Since the foreign government securities underlying thefutures cannot be traded in the United States unless they areregistered with the SEC, settlement and delivery of the futureswould often take place in the foreign country, the SECofficials said.    The SEC is also considering expanding futures trading ofadditional countries' government securities to be marketed andtraded in the United States, the officials said. Reuter
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange two billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a spokeswoman said.    Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-1/8 pct whenthe Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves tothe banking system. Reuter
MIYAZAWA SAYS EXCHANGE RATES WILL STAY STABLE Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told apress conference he thinks exchange rates will remain stabledue to the currency accord reached in Paris last month by sixmajor industrialised nations but he did not say for how long.    The dollar has hovered around 153 yen since the six agreedto cooperate to bring about currency stability.    Asked to comment on remarks by some U.S. Officials callingfor a further decline of the dollar, Miyazawa said only theU.S. President and the U.S. Treasury Secretary can makeofficial statements about exchange rates. REUTER
JAPAN MINISTER SAYS ABOUT 170 YEN APPROPRIATE International Trade and Industry MinisterHajime Tamura told a parliamentary session Japan's small- andmedium-sized enterprises are seriously suffering from the yen'srise and can only stand levels around 170 yen.    He also said he still believes a dollar exchange rate levelplus or minus 10 yen from 170 yen would be within levels agreedupon last month in Paris by six major industrial nations.Finance ministers of Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S.And West Germany agreed on February 22 to cooperate instabilizing exchange rates around the current levels. Thedollar had closed here at 153.77 yen on February 20. REUTER
BANK OF ENGLAND OFFERS EARLY HELP TO MONEY MARKET The Bank of England said it invited anearly round of bill offers to help ease tight conditions in themoney market.    The bank estimated today's liquidity shortage at about 1.10billion stg.    Bills maturing in official hands and the treasury billtake-up would drain 1.21 billion stg from the system while arise in the note circulation and below target bankers' balanceswould take out 265 mln and 180 mln respectively, the bank said.    Against this, exchequer transactions would add a net 535mln stg. REUTER
Miyazawa says current dollar/yen rate not necessarily sati Japan agreed in talks with the U.S. Toamend its laws to allow more companies to engage ininternational value-added network telecommunications services,a Post and Telecommunications Ministry official said.    Such services make communications between otherwiseincompatible computers possible over telecommunications lines.    The official said firms registering as "Special Type TwoTelecommunications Firms," which are those leasing lines fromcommon carriers, will be permitted to re-lease the lines tousers and provide international services.    Steps will also be taken to assure fairness in negotiationsbetween common carriers and firms seeking to lease lines, theofficial said.    Since December, 10 companies have registered as SpecialType Two firms, including two which have American Telephone andTelegraph Co <T> or McDonnell Douglas Corp <MD> as majorshareholders, the official said.    Currently only <Kokusai Denshin Denwa Co Ltd> and <NipponTelegraph and Telephone Corp> are allowed to operateinternational telecommunications services. REUTER
MIYAZAWA SAYS PRESENT YEN NOT NECESSARILY IDEAL Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told aparliamentary session the current dollar/yen exchange rate isnot necessarily satisfactory for the Japanese economy.    Miyazawa said the Paris currency accord among six majorindustrial nations last month does not necessarily mean the yenshould stay stable around current levels in the future.    The Paris agreement was aimed at stopping a further rapidfluctuation of exchange rates, he said.    The accord stipulated that current rates reflectfundamentals of the six nations - Britain, Canada, France,Japan, the U.S. And West Germany. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 478 MLN STG EARLY HELP The Bank of England said it provided themarket with 478 mln stg of early assistance to help ease aliquidity shortage it estimated at 1.10 billion stg.    It made outright purchases of seven mln stg of band onebank bills at 10-3/8 pct and 30 mln stg of band two bank billsat 10-5/16 pct.    In addition, it bought 294 mln stg of paper for resale tothe market on March 30 and 147 mln stg for resale on April 8,in both cases at an interest rate of 10-7/16 pct. REUTER
MIYAZAWA SAYS PRESENT YEN NOT NECESSARILY IDEAL Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told aparliamentary session the current dollar/yen exchange rate isnot necessarily satisfactory for the Japanese economy.    Miyazawa said the Paris currency accord among six majorindustrial nations last month does not necessarily mean the yenshould stay stable around current levels in the future.    The Paris agreement was aimed at stopping a further rapidfluctuation of exchange rates, he said.    The accord stipulated that current rates reflectfundamentals of the six nations - Britain, Canada, France,Japan, the U.S. And West Germany. REUTER
JAPAN MINISTER SAYS ABOUT 170 YEN APPROPRIATE International Trade and Industry MinisterHajime Tamura told a parliamentary session Japan's small- andmedium-sized enterprises are seriously suffering from the yen'srise and can only stand levels around 170 yen.    He also said he still believes a dollar exchange rate levelplus or minus 10 yen from 170 yen would be within levels agreedupon last month in Paris by six major industrial nations.Finance ministers of Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S.And West Germany agreed on February 22 to cooperate instabilizing exchange rates around the current levels. Thedollar had closed here at 153.77 yen on February 20. REUTER
MIYAZAWA SAYS EXCHANGE RATES WILL STAY STABLE Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told apress conference he thinks exchange rates will remain stabledue to the currency accord reached in Paris last month by sixmajor industrialised nations but he did not say for how long.    The dollar has hovered around 153 yen since the six agreedto cooperate to bring about currency stability.    Asked to comment on remarks by some U.S. Officials callingfor a further decline of the dollar, Miyazawa said only theU.S. President and the U.S. Treasury Secretary can makeofficial statements about exchange rates. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 168 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it provided themoney market with a further 168 mln stg of assistance to helpoffset a shortage it now estimated at 1.05 billion stg, reviseddown from 1.10 billion.    It bought 21 mln stg of bank bills outright, 20 mln in bandone at 10-3/8 pct and one mln in band two at 10-5/16 pct. Inaddition, it bought 98 mln stg of bills for resale on March 30and 49 mln stg for resale April 8 at an interest rate of10-7/16 pct. All these rates are the same as for today'searlier help.    So far today, the bank has provided the market withassistance worth 646 mln stg.    The bank also announced the rates applicable to temporarylending facilities rolled over today.    The average mid-market rate for lending rolled over for oneweek is 10-15/16 pct and for two weeks 10-5/8 pct. REUTER
UK MONEY MARKET DEFICIT REVISED TO ONE BILLION STG The Bank of England said it has revisedits estimate of today's shortfall to one billion stg, beforetaking account of 646 mln stg morning assistance. REUTER
UK MONEY MARKET GIVEN LATE HELP OF 185 MLN STG The Bank of England said it gave themoney market late, unspecified assistance of around 185 mlnstg.    This takes the total liquidity injected into the system bythe bank today to 1.026 billion stg compared with a shortage itestimated at around one billion stg.    Overnight interbank sterling dipped to 10 nine pct afterthe bank's announcement compared with levels around 10-1/2 pctshortly before and 11-1/4 11 pct initially today, dealers said. REUTER
YEUTTER SAYS DLR LEVEL BASED ON ECONOMIC POLICY U.S. Trade Representative ClaytonYeutter said that whether the exchange rate of the dollar wouldfall or rise in the coming decade would depend on nations'financial, monetary and tax policies.    But, he said, in a speech and remarks to the HeritageFoundation, that in the end "the marketplace will ultimatelyrule the day."    Asked about the future of the dollar, he said that whetheror not it would rise or fall depended on economic policies andcoooperation among trading nations.    Yeutter said "if nations do the right kinds of things infinancial, monetary and tax policies, then a lesser burden ofadjustment is placed on exchange rates, and one could envisiona situation of the major trading nations moving back far closerto what most of us would consider equilibrium and exchangerates becoming relatively stable."    But he said, on the other hand, that if nations did notexhibit greater self discipline and international cooperation,"It is simply inevitable that the exchange rates will make thatadjustment." Reuter
AFTER G-6, ROUND ONE GOES TO CENTRAL BANKS Central banks have easily beaten backthe foreign exchange market's first test of the industrializednations' recent pact to stabilize currencies, analysts said.    In active trading this week, the market pushed the dollar,sterling, the Canadian dollar and Australian dollar higher. Butoperators got their fingers burned as one by one the centralbanks signalled their displeasure.    "So far G-6 has been a roaring success,"said James O'Neill,financial markets economist at Marine Midland Bank NA.    "The central banks are sending strong signals that theywon't tolerate any kind of momentum building behindcurrencies," added a senior corporate trader at one U.K. bank.    On February 22, the finance ministers and central bankgovernors of the U.S., Japan, West Germany, France and the U.K.-- the Group of Five -- plus Canada, signed an accord underwhich they agreed to cooperate closely to foster stability ofexchange rates around prevailing levels.    The agreement was viewed by many in the market as anattempt to put a floor under the dollar after its sizeabletwo-year decline against major world currencies.    And initially, traders indicated their respect for theaccord by refraining from pushing the dollar lower.    But by Wednesday, the dollar climbed to more than 1.87marks, about five pfennigs above its levels the Friday beforethe G-6 accord.    The move was aided by indications that the U.S. economypicked up steam in February at the same time as the West Germaneconomy was regressing.    But dealers said the Federal Reserve Bank of New York gavetraders a sharp reminder that the G-6 pact had encompassed theidea of limiting inordinate dollar gains as well as declines.    Dealers differed as to whether the U.S. central bankactually intervened to sell dollars above 1.87 marks, or simplytelephoned dealers to ask for quotes and enquire about tradingconditions.    But the dollar quickly backed off. It hovered today around1.85 marks. "The market was surprised that the Fed showed itsface so soon," said Marine Midland NA's O'Neill.    Also on Wednesday, London dealers said the Bank of Englandintervened in the open market to sell sterling as the U.K.currency rose to 1.60 dlrs compared with 1.5355 dlrs before theG-6 pact.    Sterling, along with the other high-yield currencies likethe Australian dollar and Canadian dollar, was in favor aftertraders surmised that the the chance of intervention pursuantto the Paris currency accord left limited room for profit playson dollar/mark and dollar/yen.    The pound also was boosted by suggestions of an improvingU.K. economy, anticipation of a popular British budget on March17 and public opinion polls showing good chances for theincumbent Conservative party in any general election.    "There was a real run on sterling," said Anne Mills ofShearson Lehman Brothers Inc.    Sterling traded today around 1.5750 dlrs, down from 1.5870dlrs last night. It slid to 2.917 marks from 2.950 yesterdayand from a peak of about 2.98 recently. "There's been someheavy profit-taking on sterling/mark ahead of next Tuesday'sU.K. budget," said James McGroarty of Discount Corp.    As speculators detected the presence of the U.S. andBritish central banks, they acclerated their shift intoCanadian and Australian dollars. But here too they werestymied. The Bank of Canada acted to slow its currency's rise.    The Canadian dollar traded at 1.3218/23 per U.S. dollartoday, down from 1.3185/90 yesterday.    And the Australian Reserve Bank, using the Fed as agent,sold Australian dollars in the U.S. yesterday, dealers said.    The Australian dollar fell to a low of 67.45/55 U.S. centstoday from a high of 69.02 Thursday.    Analysts said the central banks' moves to stifle suddenupward movement, leave the market uncertain about its nextstep. Today, the focus shifted to the yen which has held to avery tight range against the dollar for several months.    The dollar fell to 152.35/40 yen from 153.35/40 last night.Analysts said the yen also gained as traders unwound longsterling/short mark positions established lately.    "Because of the change in perceptions about the health ofthe German economy, the funds from those unwinding operationsare ending up in yen," a dealer at one U.K. bank said.    Recent West German data have shown falling industry orders,lower industrial output and slowing employment gains.    Moreover, the yen is benefitting as Japanese entities whohave invested heavily overseas, for example in Australianfinancial instruments, repatriate their profits ahead of theend of the Japanese fiscal year on March 31.    Noting that the dollar/yen rate is in a sense the mostcontroversial one because of the large U.S. trade deficit withJapan, analysts said the stage could be set for another test ofthe dollar's downward scope against the Japanese currency.    In its latest review of the foreign exchange market throughthe end of January, the Federal Reserve revealed that itintervened to protect the dollar against the yen on January 28.On that day, the dollar fell as low as 150.40 yen.    "Sure, the Fed bought dollars near the 150 yen level inJanuary. But the market has to bear in mind that time marcheson and the situation changes," said McGroarty of Discount. Reuter
LEADING INDUSTRIAL NATIONS TO MEET IN APRIL Leading industrial nations will meetagain next month to review their accord on currency stability,but U.S. Officials said financial markets are convinced for nowthe countries will live up to commitments to speed up economicgrowth.    The narrow currency movements of recent weeks stronglysuggests the six leading industrial countries have tamed thenormally unruly financial markets and next month's talks seemlikely to build on that stability.    A Reagan administration official said the Paris agreementlast month was the main reason markets were calm.    But he said in an interview that financial markets alsounderstood, "That all six countries concluded that the measuresto be taken over a period of time in the future should fosterstability of exchange rates around current levels. That is infact what has happened since Paris."    Monetary analysts said stability has been helped in part bythe decision of industrial nations to bury the hatchet andcease to quarrel over short-term policy objectives.    Instead they have focused on medium-term policy goals, butleft room to adjust their agreements with periodic meetings.    The official refused to comment, however, on whether theagreement included a secret pact to consider furthercoordinated interest rate cuts -- a measure industrial nationshave taken jointly several times in the past year.    On February 22, the United States, Japan, West Germany,France, Britain and Canada agreed that major currencies werewithin ranges broadly reflecting underlying economicconditions, given commitments by Washington to cut its budgetdeficit and by Toyko and Bonn to boost economic growth.    The shake-up would strengthen the U.S. Position infuture international talks.    "I think these changes will strengthen the President's handpolitically and the stronger he is politically the better offwe are with the Congress and the better off we are ininternational fora," said the official, an Administrationeconomic policymaker. "So it would be beneficial to thecontinued conduct of our initiatives."    But the official also said the Administration would resistcalls for a tax increase to cut the budget deficit -- a targetEuropeans say is crucial to help curb economic instability.    Last week, dealers said the Federal Reserve intervened tostop the dollar rising against the mark, which had breached1.86 to the dollar. British authorities are also understood tohave intervened to curb sterling's strength.    International monetary sources say finance ministers andcentral bankers, who will review market performance and theirown economic prospects, will reassemble again in Washingtonjust before the April 9 policymaking meeting of theInternational Monetary Fund.    The sources said Italy, which refused to join the Parispact, was invited back by Treasury Secretary James Baker.    Since Paris, there are signs West German growth is slowing,while U.S. Officials said they were giving Japan until April toshow that an economic stimulus package was in the offing.    Signs of concern about German prospects emerged recentlywhen Bundesbank (central bank) president Karl Otto Poehl toldbankers he would consider cutting West German interest rates ifthe Fed was ready to follow suit.    A Reagan Administration official said this would show therehad been some change in approach on the part of the centralbank in Germany.    But he declined to comment on the prospects for action bythe Fed and the Bundesbank.    "If there is such a provision it is private and if I talkedabout it, it would no longer be private," said the official, whoasked not to be identified.    Public comments by Fed officials suggest the central bankis keeping credit conditions broadly unchanged, but if themajor economies continue to show sluggish growth and the U.S.Trade deficit remains stubbornly high, further coordinatedaction could be on the April agenda. REUTER...
PERU BEGINS FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATIONING Peru will put into effect Monday a foreignexchange rationing system for imports designed to stop a slidein the country's international reserves, a government decree inthe Official Gazette said.    Under the system, importers will be required to present abill from the foreign seller of goods and apply for a licensefor foreign exchange. The central bank will have 10 days todecide whether to issue the required foreign exchange.    Net international reserves now total about 800 mln dlrscompared to 1.54 billion dlrs a year ago.    The system will be effective until the end of 1988.    A ceiling for foreign exchange availability will be set bya council with members from the central bank, the economyministry and the planning and foreign trade institutes. Thecentral bank will issue licenses to procure foreign exchange inaccordance with guidelines set by the council.    Peru's reserves fell sharply due to a drop in the tradesurplus to about five mln dlrs in 1986 from 1.1 billion in1985, according to preliminary central bank estimates.   Total exports dropped to 2.50 billion dlrs last year against2.97 billion in 1985.   Imports last year rose sharply as gross domestic productgrew by about 8.5 pct, the highest economic growth levelregistered in 12 years. Imports were about 2.49 billion dlrs in1986 against 1.87 billion in 1985, according to preliminaryestimates.    The cushion of reserves allowed Peru to take a hard-linedebt stance last year and suspend most payments due on its 14.3billion dlr foreign debt. REUTER
TAIWAN SAYS U.S. WANTS TAIWAN DOLLAR TO APPRECIATE The United States wants Taiwan'scurrency to appreciate faster to reduce Taiwan's trade surpluswith the U.S., A senior trade official said.    Board of Foreign Trade director Vincent Siew told reporterson Saturday U.S. Officials told him in Washington last weekthat unless Taiwan allowed its dollar to rise faster it wouldface retaliation.    Siew returned from Washington on Friday after the U.Sresponded to Taiwan's request to increase its textile exportquotas by promising further talks in May. Taiwan's surplus withthe U.S. Hit a record 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs in 1986.    Washington signed a three-year accord with Taipei last yearlimiting textile export growth to 0.5 pct a year.    Siew said the Taiwan dollar had risen by about 15 pctagainst the U.S. Dollar since September 1985.    It surged last week amid indications Washington was seekinga major rise in its value. It rose four cents against the U.S.Dollar on Saturday to close at 34.59.    Western trade sources told Reuters Taiwan and the U.S. Havebeen holding talks on the currency issue but added it is notclear how far Washington wants to see the Taiwan dollar rise. REUTER
ZAMBIA, IMF TALKS HIT PROBLEMS OVER FOOD SUBSIDIES Zambia's talks with the World Bank andInternational Monetary Fund (IMF) on a financial rescue packagehave run into difficulties on the issue of food subsidies, anofficial newspaper said.    The Times of Zambia, which is run by the ruling UnitedNational Independence Party (UNIP), quoted official sources assaying the IMF and World Bank had refused to continue financingfood subsidies and were pressing the government to explain howit proposes to pay for them.    President Kenneth Kaunda tried to abolish maize subsidieslast December, in line with IMF recommendations, but the movecaused maize meal prices to double overnight and led to riotsin which 15 people were killed.    The subsidies were immediately restored as part of moves toquell the disturbances, but they are estimated to cost thegovernment about 500 mln kwacha per year.    The Times of Zambia said another major issue in thegovernment's current talks with the IMF and World Bank was theremodelling of Zambia's foreign exchange auction.    The central bank's weekly auction of foreign exchange tothe private sector has been suspended since the end of January,pending modifications to slow down the rate of devaluation anddampen fluctuations in the exchange rate.    The kwacha slid to around 15 per dollar under the auctionsystem, losing 85 pct of its value in 16 months. However, sincethe end of January it has been revalued to a fixed rate of nineper dollar.    Banking sources said Zambia was persuaded by the World Bankand IMF to lift its proposed ceiling of 12.50 kwacha per dollaron the currency's devaluation once the auctions restart.    According to the Times of Zambia, the IMF team, led byassistant director for Africa Paul Acquah, is due to concludeits talks with the government on schedule on March 23.    The IMF mission arrived in Lusaka on February 26 and itstalks with the government have taken longer than expected. REUTER
TREASURY, FOREIGN RESERVES ARE JORDAN'S PRIORITIES Jordan's key economic priorities arehaving a sound national treasury and adequate foreign exchangereserves, Prime Minister Zeid al-Rifa'i said.    "First, the national treasury should be in sound shape whendealing with the public and other countries so that itscredibility is preserved," he said in a television interviewSaturday.    "The second priority is to maintain an acceptable level offoreign exchange reserves to provide (the) stability andconfidence needed by the government to meet foreigncommitments."    Rifa'i said Jordan's outstanding government-guaranteed andcommercial loans total 902 mln dinars with a debt service ratioof 14.9 pct.    The figure was sharply lower than the 1.02 billion dinarsin outstanding loans at the end of September, according tolatest Central Bank figures.    Rifa'i dismissed the view of some bankers and economistshere that the dinar, which is pegged to a basket of currencies,is overvalued.    "The dinar is strong and stable and we intend to preserveits stability," he said.    The prime minister said he hoped the next Arab summit wouldtackle the question of continuing financial aid to Jordan.Under a 10-year agreement reached in 1978, Jordan was toreceive a total of 1.25 billion dlrs annually from Algeria,Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United ArabEmirates to help it resist Israel.    But only Saudi Arabia met its obligations, while the othersfailed because of falling income due to lower oil prices. REUTER
GERMAN BANKING AUTHORITIES WEIGH SWAP REGULATIONS German banking authorities areweighing rules for banks' off-balance sheet activities in anattempt to cope with the growing volume of sophisticatedcapital market instruments, banking sources said.    Interest rate and currency swaps and currency options areunder closest scrutiny, and if revisions are made they mayresemble regulation jointly proposed by the U.S. And U.K. ToJapan. Juergen Becker, director of the Bundesbank's division ofbanking law and credit supervision, said the U.S.-Britishproposals were interesting, but declined to elaborate.    But banking sources said West Germany was more likely toproduce its own conclusions than to adopt foreign proposals.    "There is no formal plan yet, but talks are in the latterstages," one representative of the German Banking Association inCologne said. Bankers expect rule changes this year.    All alterations must be approved by the Bundesbank, WestGermany's four major banking associations and the FederalBanking Supervisory Office.    Talks have been slowed by the fact that fundamental changeswould require a revision of Germany's credit law, which hasbeen in effect since 1934.    Authorities favour reinterpreting the credit law to fitpresent circumstances in order to avoid the long parliamentarypolitical process of changing it, banking sources said.    Since the beginning of 1984 the banking law has limitedbanks' lending to 18 times shareholders' equity plus reserves,on a consolidated basis.    But lending ratios do not extend to several newerinstruments such as spot and forward currency contracts,currency and interest swaps, commercial paper programs,currency options, interest rate futures in foreign currenciesand various innovative types of interest rate hedges.    The sources said the main value of the U.S.-U.K. Proposalslay in differentiating between different types of risk factor,and, for instance, in placing greater weight on currency swapsthan interest swaps. But even if German banking authoritiesagree with some of the assessments of swaps, they disagree onhow to find balance sheet equivalents for the risk.    U.S.-British proposals include a complicated series offormulae for assessing the stream of payments involved inswaps, whose ultimate risk is borne by the financialintermediary, especially when counterparties remain anonymous.This is the so-called market-to-market value.    But German authorities are likely to consider this much toocomplex and to base their evaluation instead on a schedule oflending ratings assigned according to the creditworthiness ofthe borrowers involved, the sources said.    The weightings, also likely if lending ratios are extendedto include banks' securities portfolios, are zero for publicauthorities, 20 pct for domestic banks, 50 pct for foreignbanks and 100 pct for other foreign and non-bank borrowers.    A further complication is that the more flexibledefinitions of equity allowed in the U.S. And the U.K. May putGerman banks at a competitive disadvantage, the sources said.    Stricter definitions here also mean the use of a version ofthe U.S.-U.K. Proposals could far exceed the intent of the U.S.And British authorities, the sources said.    One specialist for Dresdner Bank AG said a long-datedforeign exchange forward transaction could, for instance, bebrought under the same rule as a cross-currency swap, despitethe fact that the risk may be entirely different.    How new regulations will affect foreign banks here wasuncertain. Many have converted to full subsidiary status andapplied for a full banking licence over the last two years inorder to lead-manage mark eurobonds.    But as their equity capital is fairly small, tight lendingratios will severely hamper foreign banks' freedom of movement,particularly in the growing business of currency swaps, if theyare required to include more transactions in the balance sheet,the sources added. REUTER
Bank of Japan satisfied with yen around current range, senior bank offic West German retail turnover rose areal one pct in January compared with the same month a yearearlier, according to provisional data from the FederalStatistics Office.    There were 26 shopping days in January this year, the sameas in January 1986, a Statistics Office statement said.    A Statistics Office official added retail turnover hadrisen by 7.6 pct in December compared with the year-ago month,a slight upward revision from the 7.5 pct increaseprovisionally posted. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN SATISFIED WITH YEN AT CURRENT RANGE The Bank of Japan is satisfied with theyen around its current range, a senior central bank officialtold reporters.    He said the pledge by major industrial nations in Parislast month to cooperate to hold exchange rates around currentranges applied in both directions, a dollar fall or a dollarrise.    Unilateral intervention itself cannot ensure currencystability, but it can be useful when coordinated with otherpolicies and with other central banks, he said.    The Bank of Japan is rather confident currency stabilitywill continue for some time, the senior bank official said, butdeclined to be more specific.    Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told parliament on Fridaythe current dollar/yen exchange rate is not necessarilysatisfactory for the Japanese economy.    Asked what factors might destabilize the markets, theofficial cited a lessening of market fear about intervention, acompletely unexpected change in the economy of Japan, the U.S.Or West Germany, or resumption of comments by governmentofficials seeking to talk the dollar up or down.    The senior bank official said he expects Japan's grossnational product (GNP) to grow three pct or slightly more inthe fiscal year beginning in April. That would be littlechanged from the performance expected this year.    Domestic demand may grow nearly four pct in 1987/88, butthe external sector will have a negative impact on GNP ofnearly one percentage point, he said.    He said there was virtually no room for further monetarypolicy action to boost the economy. The economy's performancein the future very much depends on fiscal policy, he added.    The central bank's monetary policy has already done itspart in stimulating the economy, the senior bank official said.The Bank of Japan has cut its discount rate five times over thelast year and a half.    Although the central bank does not see any imminent risk ofinflation, there could be some problems in the future, he said."We are sitting on a barrel of powder, but fortunately it maystill be wet," he added.    Liquidity among private households and especially thecorporate sector has increased substantially, he said.    The liquidity is the reason for the recent boom of stockexchange prices, the bank official said. This inflow of fundsinto the stock exchange, occurring also in other countries, maycontinue, he said.    The senior official said the Bank of Japan is hopingFederal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker will be re-appointed whenhis current term expires later this year.    "He's a great man," the official said, adding that more andmore people expect his reappointment.    Turning to exchange rates, the official said thesubstantial drop in the dollar is beginning to have an effecton reducing the imbalance in world trade, even though theimpact has taken longer than expected to show through. Even theU.S. Trade position has begun to feel the impact, although sofar it has not been very strong, he said. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it invited anearly round of bill offers from discount houses afterforecasting a shortage in the system of some 1.05 billion stg.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturingin official hands and treasury bill take-up will drain some1.07 billion stg while exchequer transactions will take outaround 335 mln stg and bankers' balances below target five mlnstg.    Partly offseting these outflows, a fall in note circulationwill add some 355 mln stg to the system today. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 90 MLN STG EARLY HELP The Bank of England said it provided themoney market with assistance worth 90 mln stg in response to anearly round of bill offers from discount houses.    Earlier, the bank estimated the shortage in the systemtoday at some 1.05 billion stg.    The bank bought bills for resale to the market in equalamounts on April 1, 2 and 3 at an interest rate of 10-7/16 pct. REUTER
BUNDESBANK ADDS MONEY MARKET LIQUIDITY The Bundesbank came into the domesticmoney market to add temporary liquidity through federalgovernment funds as call money rates rose above 4.0 pct,dealers said.    They estimated that the bulk of liquidity was added atabout 3.95 pct. Call money fell to 3.90/4.0 pct after the move.It had been 3.80/90 on Friday.    The move came as call money extended a rise begun Fridayafter the Bundesbank took up some six billion marks owed to itby other European central banks after currency interventions inthe framework of European Monetary System in January.    Rates could ease further in trading today but dealersexpect them to rise later in the week as banks begin paying outfunds for tax payments on behalf of clients.    Some 30 billion marks is likely to leave the market thismonth, with the bulk being paid out next week.    In anticipation of this liquidity drain, banks have stockedup reserves at the Bundesbank.    On Thursday, minimum reserve holdings declined to 57.0billion marks from 60.0 billion on Wednesday but were wellabove the 53.2 billion held on Tuesday. Daily average reserveholdings rose slightly to 54.7 billion marks from 54.5 billion.    The daily average reserve holdings were above the level ofaround 51 billion marks dealers said is needed for the requireddaily average for the month.    With the heavy tax drain in March, banks are likely toremain cautious about taking more liquidity out of reservesthan is absolutely necessary.    However, a new securities repurchase pact likely to beadded next week to replace a facility expiring then couldsomewhat offset the drain.    The Bundesbank is expected to allocate more than the 3.4billion marks which is due to be rolled over, dealers said. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST REVISED UPWARDS The Bank of England said it had revisedits estimate of the shortage in the money market today up to1.15 billion stg before taking account of its early operations.    Earlier, the bank forecast the deficit at 1.05 billion stgand gave 90 mln stg assistance at an early round of billoffers. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN SATISFIED WITH YEN AT CURRENT RANGE The Bank of Japan is satisfied with theyen around its current range, a senior central bank officialtold reporters.    He said the pledge by major industrial nations in Parislast month to cooperate to hold exchange rates around currentranges applied in both directions, a dollar fall or a dollarrise.    Unilateral intervention itself cannot ensure currencystability, but it can be useful when coordinated with otherpolicies and with other central banks, he said.    The Bank of Japan is rather confident currency stabilitywill continue for some time, the senior bank official said, butdeclined to be more specific.    Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told parliament on Fridaythe current dollar/yen exchange rate is not necessarilysatisfactory for the Japanese economy.    Asked what factors might destabilize the markets, theofficial cited a lessening of market fear about intervention, acompletely unexpected change in the economy of Japan, the U.S.Or West Germany, or resumption of comments by governmentofficials seeking to talk the dollar up or down.    The senior bank official said he expects Japan's grossnational product (GNP) to grow three pct or slightly more inthe fiscal year beginning in April. That would be littlechanged from the performance expected this year.    Domestic demand may grow nearly four pct in 1987/88, butthe external sector will have a negative impact on GNP ofnearly one percentage point, he said.    He said there was virtually no room for further monetarypolicy action to boost the economy. The economy's performancein the future very much depends on fiscal policy, he added.    The central bank's monetary policy has already done itspart in stimulating the economy, the senior bank official said.The Bank of Japan has cut its discount rate five times over thelast year and a half.    Although the central bank does not see any imminent risk ofinflation, there could be some problems in the future, he said."We are sitting on a barrel of powder, but fortunately it maystill be wet," he added.    Liquidity among private households and especially thecorporate sector has increased substantially, he said.    The liquidity is the reason for the recent boom of stockexchange prices, the bank official said. This inflow of fundsinto the stock exchange, occurring also in other countries, maycontinue, he said. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 30 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it provided themoney market with a further 30 mln stg assistance.    This brings the Bank's total help so far today to 120 mlnstg and compares with its upward revised estimate that thesystem would face a shortage of some 1.15 billon stg.    The central bank bought bills for resale to the market inequal amounts on April 1, 2 and 3 at an interest rate of10-7/16 pct. REUTER
PERU BEGINS FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATIONING Peru will put into effect today a foreignexchange rationing system for imports designed to stop a slidein the country's international reserves, a government decree inthe Official Gazette said.    Under the system, importers will be required to present abill from the foreign seller of goods and apply for a licensefor foreign exchange. The central bank will have 10 days todecide whether to issue the required foreign exchange.    Net international reserves now total about 800 mln dlrscompared to 1.54 billion dlrs a year ago.    The system will be effective until the end of 1988.    A ceiling for foreign exchange availability will be set bya council with members from the central bank, the economyministry and the planning and foreign trade institutes. Thecentral bank will issue licenses to procure foreign exchange inaccordance with guidelines set by the council.    Peru's reserves fell sharply due to a drop in the tradesurplus to about five mln dlrs in 1986 from 1.1 billion in1985, according to preliminary central bank estimates.   Total exports dropped to 2.50 billion dlrs last year against2.97 billion in 1985. Reuter
TAIWAN SAYS U.S. WANTS TAIWAN DOLLAR TO APPRECIATE The United States wants Taiwan'scurrency to appreciate faster to reduce Taiwan's trade surpluswith the U.S., A senior trade official said.    Board of Foreign Trade director Vincent Siew told reporterson Saturday U.S. Officials told him in Washington last weekthat unless Taiwan allowed its dollar to rise faster it wouldface retaliation.    Siew returned from Washington on Friday after the U.Sresponded to Taiwan's request to increase its textile exportquotas by promising further talks in May. Taiwan's surplus withthe U.S. Hit a record 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs in 1986.    Washington signed a three-year accord with Taipei last yearlimiting textile export growth to 0.5 pct a year.    Siew said the Taiwan dollar had risen by about 15 pctagainst the U.S. Dollar since September 1985.    It surged last week amid indications Washington was seekinga major rise in its value. It rose four cents against the U.S.Dollar on Saturday to close at 34.59.    Western trade sources told Reuters Taiwan and the U.S. Havebeen holding talks on the currency issue but added it is notclear how far Washington wants to see the Taiwan dollar rise. REUTER
LEADING INDUSTRIAL NATIONS TO MEET IN APRIL Leading industrial nations will meetagain next month to review their accord on currency stability,but U.S. Officials said financial markets are convinced for nowthe countries will live up to commitments to speed up economicgrowth.    The narrow currency movements of recent weeks stronglysuggests the six leading industrial countries have tamed thenormally unruly financial markets and next month's talks seemlikely to build on that stability.    A Reagan administration official said the Paris agreementlast month was the main reason markets were calm.    But he said in an interview that financial markets alsounderstood, "That all six countries concluded that the measuresto be taken over a period of time in the future should fosterstability of exchange rates around current levels. That is infact what has happened since Paris."    Monetary analysts said stability has been helped in part bythe decision of industrial nations to bury the hatchet andcease to quarrel over short-term policy objectives.    Instead they have focused on medium-term policy goals, butleft room to adjust their agreements with periodic meetings.    The official refused to comment, however, on whether theagreement included a secret pact to consider furthercoordinated interest rate cuts -- a measure industrial nationshave taken jointly several times in the past year.    On February 22, the United States, Japan, West Germany,France, Britain and Canada agreed that major currencies werewithin ranges broadly reflecting underlying economicconditions, given commitments by Washington to cut its budgetdeficit and by Toyko and Bonn to boost economic growth.    The shake-up would strengthen the U.S. Position in futureinternational talks.    "I think these changes will strengthen the President's handpolitically and the stronger he is politically the better offwe are with the Congress and the better off we are ininternational fora," said the official, an Administrationeconomic policymaker. "So it would be beneficial to thecontinued conduct of our initiatives."    But the official also said the Administration would resistcalls for a tax increase to cut the budget deficit -- a targetEuropeans say is crucial to help curb economic instability.    Currency analysts believe the Paris agreement set secret short-term target ranges for their currencies with a specificagreement to defend those bands with intervention.    According to market sources, the ranges agreed were 1.60 to1.90 marks to the dollar, and 140 to 155 yen to the dollar.    There is no official confirmation that specific bands  wereset, although the agreement used the term "ranges", for the firsttime in an international economic agreement.    The Paris accord stated the six would cooperate closely tofoster currency stability around current levels.    Last week, dealers said the Federal Reserve intervened tostop the dollar rising against the mark, which had breached1.86 to the dollar. British authorities are also understood tohave intervened to curb sterling's strength.    International monetary sources say finance ministers andcentral bankers, who will review market performance and theirown economic prospects, will reassemble again in Washingtonjust before the April 9 policymaking meeting of theInternational Monetary Fund.    The sources said Italy, which refused to join the Parispact, was invited back by Treasury Secretary James Baker.    Since Paris, there are signs West German growth is slowing,while U.S. Officials said they were giving Japan until April toshow that an economic stimulus package was in the offing.    Signs of concern about German prospects emerged recentlywhen Bundesbank (central bank) president Karl Otto Poehl toldbankers he would consider cutting West German interest rates ifthe Fed was ready to follow suit.    A Reagan Administration official said this would show therehad been some change in approach on the part of the centralbank in Germany.    But he declined to comment on the prospects for action bythe Fed and the Bundesbank.    "If there is such a provision it is private and if I talkedabout it, it would no longer be private," said the official, whoasked not to be identified.    Public comments by Fed officials suggest the central bankis keeping credit conditions broadly unchanged, but if themajor economies continue to show sluggish growth and the U.S.Trade deficit remains stubbornly high, further coordinatedaction could be on the April agenda. REUTER
STONE CONTAINER ESTABLISHES ONE BILLION DLR BANK CREDIT  Zambia's talks with the World Bank andInternational Monetary Fund (IMF) on a financial rescue packagehave run into difficulties on the issue of food subsidies, anofficial newspaper said.    The Times of Zambia, which is run by the ruling UnitedNational Independence Party (UNIP), quoted official sources assaying the IMF and World Bank had refused to continue financingfood subsidies and were pressing the government to explain howit proposes to pay for them.    President Kenneth Kaunda tried to abolish maize subsidieslast December, in line with IMF recommendations, but the movecaused maize meal prices to double overnight and led to riots.    The subsidies were immediately restored as part of moves toquell the disturbances.    The Times of Zambia said another major issue in thegovernment's current talks with the IMF and World Bank was theremodelling of Zambia's foreign exchange auction.    The central bank's weekly auction of foreign exchange tothe private sector has been suspended since the end of January,pending modifications to slow down the rate of devaluation anddampen fluctuations in the exchange rate.    The kwacha slid to around 15 per dollar under the auction,losing 85 pct of its value in 16 months, but since the end ofJanuary has been revalued to a fixed rate of nine per dollar.    Banking sources said Zambia was persuaded by the World Bankand IMF to lift its proposed ceiling of 12.50 kwacha per dollaron the currency's devaluation once the auctions restart. Reuter
BANK OF FRANCE LEAVES MONEY MARKET INTERVENTION RATE UNCHANGED AT 7-3/4 PCT -  With the April 15 tax return deadlineless than a month away, confused taxpayers will be convergingon H and R Block Inc's offices to interpret the new tax codes.    Financial results for the nation's largest tax preparer areexpected to be good in fiscal 1987 but next year could be a"bonanza," analysts say.    "For the short term the key word is confusion, Block VicePresident Tom Bloch said in an interview. "When Congressdrastically changes laws, confusion results and tax preparersbenefit," Bloch said.    "Next year, when taxpayers take the new forms and placethem side by side to compare them, more people will throw theirhands up and say 'I'm going to get help,'" he said."Tax forms will look very different next year," he added.    Kidder Peabody analyst Herbert Buchbinder expects Block'sfiscal 1987 year (to end April 30) to show good gains overfiscal 1986 earnings of 60.1 mln dlrs or 2.41 dlrs a share onrevenues of 606.7 mln dlrs. He estimates Block's fiscal 1987earnings at 2.75 to 2.80 dlrs.    "Next year, Block could have a bonanza," Buchbinder said.Based on estimates of a larger work force, Block could show again of more than five pct in tax forms prepared, he said. Inthe 1986 tax season, Block prepared 9,215,300 U.S. tax returns,up 1.5 pct over the previous year.    The Internal Revenue Service estimates about 100 mlnindividual income tax returns will be filed for the 1987 taxseason, up from last year's 94 mln forms. Professional taxpreparers accounted for just over 43 million forms, accordingto the IRS.    For the longer term, while confusion will continue to bringclients into Block's 8,866 tax preparation offices worldwide,there are some changes in the act that will have a negativeeffect, Bloch conceded.    Certain changes in filing requirements will shorten the taxreturn, and in some cases, simplify the form, he noted. Inaddition, some low income wage earners will be taken off thetax rolls, he said.    Block is currently analyzing its price structure to try tooffset some of the negatives. Last tax season, the average costfor each return in the U.S. amounted to 48.05 dlrs and 45.73dlrs worldwide, Bloch said. This tax season, rates will be upabout three or four pct, in line with the inflation rate, hesaid.    Block expects "some expansion" this tax season of itselectronic filing system which directly feeds into the IRS andcan speed up the refund process. Block can choose where and byhow much it wants to expand into the seven cities madeavailable for the direct filing by the IRS, Bloch noted.    The IRS estimates about 90,000 returns will be directlyfiled this tax season, up from the 26,000 returns injected inthe 1986 tax season.    First Kansas City analyst Jonathan Braatz said that Blockwill benefit greatly from lower tax rates in fiscal 1988.    Braatz expects Block's advertising budget to be about thesame as last year which will be helped a bit by lower costs fortelevision ads. "They may get a little more bang for theirbuck," he said.    He estimates Block has about 150 mln dlrs cash on itsbalance sheet sheet, and says if interest rates rise it couldbe of great benefit to them. Reuter
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 550 MLN STG LATE HELP The Bank of England said it provided themoney market with late assistance of around 550 mln stg.    This takes the Bank's total help today to some 1.12 billionstg and compares with its estimated deficit of around 1.10billion. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve is expected tointervene in the government securities market to add reservesvia two to 2.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements,economists said.    Economists said the Fed will inject temporary reservesindirectly to offset pressure on the Federal funds rateassociated with quarterly corporate tax payments to theTreasury department.    Fed funds opened at 6-1/4 pct and remained at that levellate this morning. Friday funds averaged 6.05 pct. Reuter
SPAIN TO RELAX EXCHANGE CONTROLS The Bank of Spain is relaxing exchangecontrols to help put Spanish banks on an equal footing withEuropean Community competitors by the 1993 deadline for theending of restrictions, a central bank spokesman said.    "The measures to take effect by June were designed to liftrestrictions on foreign currency operations, in line withderegulation in the banking industry," he said in a telephoneinterview.    The spokesman said the relaxation of exchange controlshighlighted a broader package of reforms announced last Friday.    The central bank said in a statement the measures includedincreased provisions for high-risk borrowers and a provisionfor future pension fund obligations.    It said the measures were the latest steps to deregulateSpain's financial sector, a move triggered by entry into theCommunity last year.    Spain has five years to complete bank deregulation, aprocess that began in 1978 when the government allowed foreignbanks to open branches.    Since then 39 foreign banks have come into the market andthey now control about 15 pct of the system's lending assets.    Residents in Spain can now borrow freely in foreigncurrency up to the equivalent of 1.5 billion pesetas against aprevious ceiling of 750 mln pesetas.    The 750 mln peseta limit was set last March. Between thatdate and the end of last year some 430 mln dlrs flowed into thecountry on new foreign currency loans.    The central bank spokesman said operations over 1.5 billionpesetas were technically subject to authorisation, but would begiven clearance if the government failed to act in 15 days.    Spanish banks will also be allowed to expand their foreigncurrency funding, formerly obtainable through deposits, byissuing certificates of deposit, bonds and commercial paper.    They can also employ these funds to invest in foreignissues, while before they had to be converted into deposits.    Foreign exchange operations can be in mixed currencies,instead of having to borrow and lend in the same currency.    The central bank has also lifted the restriction on theamount of foreign exchange loans, which previously were limitedto three times a bank's capital equity.    The latest deregulation measures were welcomed by mostbankers, in contrast to rulings issued earlier this month whichimposed a 19 pct reserve requirement on new convertible pesetafunds held by banks and freed short term deposit rates.    The reserve requirement, which was already in place onnormal peseta deposits, was intended to curb short-term foreignspeculative capital which is entering the country andthreatening the government's money supply growth target.    A foreign banker said high reserve requirements, which nowaccount for about 30 pct of deposits, placed Spanish banks at adisadvantage with European competitors.    The government reduced fixed asset investment requirementsto 11 pct from 23 pct to help offset the negative impact ofinterest rate deregulation. "The real problem is the freeing ofinterest rates," the banker said. "This is going to take a bigbite out of profits."    The ruling lifted a six pct ceiling on interest rates paidon deposits of up to 180 days.    The chairman of one of Spain's leading banks said themeasure was expected to bring a 20 pct drop in profits thisyear. REUTER
FED SAYS IT SETS THREE-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASE AG Mount Isa Mines Holding Ltd plans toacquire a 30 pct stake in Europe's largest primary copperproducer, Norddeutsche Affinerie AG, a spokesman forMetallgesellschaft AG said.    MIM intends to take Preussag AG's total 20 pct share in thecopper producer in exchange for some three pct of MIM's sharecapital. MIM will also take another 10 pct now held by DegussaAG, reducing Degussa's share to 30 pct from 40.Metallgesellschaft's share will remain at 40 pct.    The move is subject to approval of the federal carteloffice and supervisory boards of the companies involved. Reuter
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA THREE-DAY REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange three-day Systemrepurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.    Dealers said that Federal funds were trading at 6-1/4 pctwhen the Fed began its temporary and direct supply of reservesto the banking system. Reuter
DOLLAR SEEN FALLING UNLESS JAPAN SPURS ECONOMY Underlying dollar sentiment is bearish,and operators may push the currency to a new low unless Japantakes steps to stimulate its economy as pledged in the Parisaccord, foreign exchange analysts polled by Reuters said here.    "The dollar is expected to try its psychological barrier of150.00 yen and to fall even below that level," a senior dealerat one leading bank said.    The dollar has eased this week, but remains stable ataround 151.50 yen. Six major industrial countries agreed at ameeting in Paris in February to foster currency stability.    Some dealers said the dollar may decline in the long term,but a drastic fall is unlikely because of U.S. Fears of renewedinflation and fears of reduced Japanese purchases of U.S.Treasury securities, needed to finance the U.S. Deficit.    Dealers generally doubted whether any economic packageJapan could adopt soon would be effective enough to reduce itstrade surplus significantly, and said such measures wouldprobably invite further U.S. Steps to weaken the dollar.    Under the Paris accord, Tokyo promised a package ofmeasures after the fiscal 1987 budget was passed to boostdomestic demand, increase imports and cut its trade surplus.    But debate on the budget has been delayed by an oppositionboycott of Parliamentary business over the proposed impositionof a five pct sales tax, and the government has only a slimchance of producing a meaningful economic package in the nearfuture, the dealers said.    If no such steps are taken, protectionist sentiment in theU.S. Congress will grow, putting greater downward pressure onthe dollar, they said.    The factors affecting the U.S. Currency have not changedsince before the Paris accord, they added.    "Underlying sentiment for the dollar remains bearish due toa still-sluggish U.S. Economic outlook, the international debtcrisis triggered by Brazil's unilateral suspension of interestpayments on its foreign debts and the reduced clout of theReagan administration as a result of the Iran/Contra armsscandal," said a senior dealer at a leading trust bank.    "There is a possibility that the dollar may decline toaround 140.00 yen by the end of this year," said Chemical BankTokyo branch vice president Yukuo Takahashi.    But operators find it hard to push the dollar either wayfor fear of possible concerted central bank intervention.    Dealers said there were widespread rumours that the U.S.Federal Reserve telephoned some banks in New York to ask forquotes last Wednesday, and even intervened to sell the dollarwhen it rose to 1.87 marks.    The Bank of England also apparently sold sterling in Londonwhen it neared 1.60 dlrs on Wednesday, they said.    But other dealers said they doubted the efficacy of centralbank intervention, saying it may stimulate the dollar's declinebecause many dealers are likely to await such dollar buyingintervention as a chance to sell dollars.    However, First National Bank of Chicago Tokyo Branchassistant manager Hiroshi Mochizuki said "The dollar will notshow drastic movement at least to the end of March."    Other dealers said the U.S. Seems unwilling to see anystrong dollar swing until Japanese companies close their booksfor the fiscal year ending on March 31, because a weak dollarwould give Japanese institutional investors paper losses ontheir foreign holdings, which could make them lose interest inpurchases of U.S. Treasury securities.    U.S. Monetary officials may refrain from making anycomments this month to avoid influencing rates, they said. REUTER
MARKET WELCOMES LOWER AUSTRALIAN PAYMENTS DEFICIT The Australian dollar rose more than 40points and money market interest rates retreated on the betterthan expected improvement in the February current accountdeficit, but economists and dealers were cautious aboutidentifying it as the start of a downward trend.    The current account deficit narrowed to 750 mln dlrs inFebruary from 1.23 billion in January. It hit 13.82 billiondlrs in 1985/86 to end-June.    The currency jumped to 0.6858/63 U.S. Dlrs and traded ashigh as 0.6875 before retreating to around 0.6864/69.    "It's got 69 cents written all over it," one dealer said.    Foreign exchange dealers said some buyers had gone long onthe dollar expecting a lower figure and sold it down about 30points to 0.6820 U.S. Dlrs before the release.    The 750 mln dlr deficit was at the lower end of forecastsand analysts said the market would welcome any figure below onebillion dlrs for March.    Banque National de Paris <BNPP.A> senior dealer PeterNicolls cautioned that in the long term the currency andinterest rates were too high for import substitution and exportindustries.    Nicolls said he expected the dollar to go as high as 0.6875and perhaps to 69 cents tomorrow.    <Lloyds Bank NZA Ltd> chief economist Will Buttrose saidthe 42 mln dlr trade surplus was encouraging as were imports at2.77 billion dlrs, down from 2.99 billion in January.    But he warned that the outlook for rural and iron and coalexports remained poor. "We should remember we are payingsomething like seven to eight billion dollars simply to serviceour foreign debt and that is not going to go away in the nearterm," Buttrose said.    Buttrose said he expected a March deficit of around 900 mlndlrs, and added "Any figure under a billion dollars will beacceptable (to the markets)."    ANZ Banking Group Ltd <ANZA.S> senior economist Ian Littlesaid the big question was whether the improvement in exportscould be sustained. February FOB exports rose to 2.82 billiondlrs from a revised 2.74 billion in January.    Interest rates responded quickly to the deficit news, with90-day bank bill yields falling to 16.42-16.45 pct from earlyhighs of 16.50 and yields yesterday as high as 16.65.    Longer term yields fell with 10-year bonds at 13.66/68 pctfrom 13.74 before the release and highs of 13.87 yesterday.    The stock market was easier at midsession but brokers saidthe current account data had little impact on trading. REUTER
AUSTRALIAN CURRENCY TRADING SET RECORD IN JANUARY Spot volume in the Australian foreignexchange market jumped to a record 22.63 billion dlrs a day inJanuary from 16.18 billion in December and 8.27 billion a yearearlier, the Reserve Bank said in its monthly bulletin.    The previous record was 17.51 billion dlrs last August.    The peak broke a steady trading trend of 15 to 17 billiondlrs a day seen in the second half of 1986.    Including forward deals, total deliverable volume was 27.01billion dlrs a day (13.43 billion against the Australiandollar) against 19.56 billion (8.48 billion) in December and9.92 billion (5.88 billion) a year earlier, the bank said. REUTER
 Danish central bank cuts overnight money market interest rate to 10.5 pct from 11 pct -  Year ended January 31    Parent shr 5.73 yen vs 5.80    Div five yen vs same    Net 7.01 billion vs 6.77 billion    Current 24.06 billion vs 23.76 billion    Operating 37.62 billion vs 45.26 billion    Sales 630.08 billion vs 810.89 billion    NOTE - Company forecast for current year parent div fiveyen, net seven to eight billion, current 24 billion, sales 610billion. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 450 MLN STG The Bank of England said it forecast ashortage of around 450 mln stg in the money market today.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturingin official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drainsome 650 mln stg while banker's balances below target will takeout around 50 mln stg.    Partly offsetting these outflows, exchequer transactionsand a fall in note circulation will add some 200 mln stg and 50mln stg to the system respectively. REUTER
TAIWAN SAID CONSIDERING CURRENCY LIBERALISATION Taiwan's central bank is consideringproposals to ease currency restrictions to reduce foreignexchange reserves of 51 billion U.S. Dlrs, a local newspaperreported today.    The China Times, which has close ties with the government,quoted central bank governor Chang Chi-cheng as saying thegovernment had agreed in principle to liberalise financialrestrictions.    The bank was considering proposals to allow firms andindividuals to hold foreign exchange and invest in foreignstocks for the first time, Chang was quoted as saying.    All foreign exchange must now be handed to local banks andexchanged for local currency. Firms and individuals may onlyinvest in foreign government bonds, treasury bills andcertificates of deposit.    Central bank and other government officials were notavailable to comment on the report.    Economists said it was likely that the government wouldease foreign exchange controls, but only gradually.    They said vast foreign currency reserves, earned mainlyfrom huge trade surpluses with the United States, made Taiwan atarget for U.S. Protectionism.    Taiwan's trade surplus with the U.S. Rose to 13.6 billionU.S. Dlrs last year compared with 10.2 billion in 1985.    "The central bank has to go in this direction," said SuHan-min, chief economist with the International Commercial Bankof China. "If they don't quicken the pace, Washington couldretaliate and really damage Taiwan." REUTER
DOLLAR SEEN FALLING UNLESS JAPAN SPURS ECONOMY Underlying dollar sentiment is bearish,and operators may push the currency to a new low unless Japantakes steps to stimulate its economy as pledged in the Parisaccord, foreign exchange analysts polled by Reuters said here.    "The dollar is expected to try its psychological barrier of150.00 yen and to fall even below that level," a senior dealerat one leading bank said.    The dollar has eased this week, but remains stable ataround 151.50 yen. Six major industrial countries agreed at ameeting in Paris in February to foster currency stability.    Some dealers said the dollar may decline in the long term,but a drastic fall is unlikely because of U.S. Fears of renewedinflation and fears of reduced Japanese purchases of U.S.Treasury securities, needed to finance the U.S. Deficit.    Dealers generally doubted whether any economic packageJapan could adopt soon would be effective enough to reduce itstrade surplus significantly, and said such measures wouldprobably invite further U.S. Steps to weaken the dollar.    Under the Paris accord, Tokyo promised a package ofmeasures after the fiscal 1987 budget was passed to boostdomestic demand, increase imports and cut its trade surplus.    But debate on the budget has been delayed by an oppositionboycott of Parliamentary business over the proposed impositionof a five pct sales tax, and the government has only a slimchance of producing a meaningful economic package in the nearfuture, the dealers said.    If no such steps are taken, protectionist sentiment in theU.S. Congress will grow, putting greater downward pressure onthe dollar, they said.    The factors affecting the U.S. Currency have not changedsince before the Paris accord, they added.    "Underlying sentiment for the dollar remains bearish due toa still-sluggish U.S. Economic outlook, the international debtcrisis triggered by Brazil's unilateral suspension of interestpayments on its foreign debts and the reduced clout of theReagan administration as a result of the Iran/Contra armsscandal," said a senior dealer at a leading trust bank.    "There is a possibility that the dollar may decline toaround 140.00 yen by the end of this year," said Chemical BankTokyo branch vice president Yukuo Takahashi.    But operators find it hard to push the dollar either wayfor fear of possible concerted central bank intervention.    Dealers said there were widespread rumours that the U.S.Federal Reserve telephoned some banks in New York to ask forquotes last Wednesday, and even intervened to sell the dollarwhen it rose to 1.87 marks.    The Bank of England also apparently sold sterling in Londonwhen it neared 1.60 dlrs on Wednesday, they said.    But other dealers said they doubted the efficacy of centralbank intervention, saying it may stimulate the dollar's declinebecause many dealers are likely to await such dollar buyingintervention as a chance to sell dollars.    However, First National Bank of Chicago Tokyo Branchassistant manager Hiroshi Mochizuki said "The dollar will notshow drastic movement at least to the end of March."    Other dealers said the U.S. Seems unwilling to see anystrong dollar swing until Japanese companies close their booksfor the fiscal year ending on March 31, because a weak dollarwould give Japanese institutional investors paper losses ontheir foreign holdings, which could make them lose interest inpurchases of U.S. Treasury securities.    U.S. Monetary officials may refrain from making anycomments this month to avoid influencing rates, they said. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET RECEIVES NO MORNING ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it did notoperate in the money market in the morning session.    Earlier, the central bank had estimated the deficit in thesystem today at some 450 mln stg. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED DOWN The Bank of England said it had revisedits forecast of the shortage in the money market today down to400 mln stg from 450 mln stg. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET RECEIVES 16 MLN STG ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it had providedthe money market with 16 mln stg help in the afternoon session.    The Bank did not operate in the market in the morning andearlier revised its estimate of the shortage in the systemtoday down to 400 mln stg from 450 mln.    The central bank purchased bills outright in band one at10-3/8 pct comprising two mln stg of local authority bills and14 mln stg of bank bills. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 120 MLN STG LATE HELP The Bank of England said it provided themoney market with late assistance of around 120 mln stg.    This brings the bank's total help today to some 136 mln stgand compares with its forecast of a 400 mln stg shortage in thesystem. REUTER
FED MAY SUPPLY RESERVES IN THE MONEY MARKETS There is a slightly better than evenchance that the Federal Reserve will enter the U.S. Governmentsecurities market to add temporary reserves, economists said.    They said the Fed would supply the reserves indirectly viaaround 1.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements.    Federal funds, which averaged 6.25 pct yesterday, opened at6-1/16 pct and moved in a narrow range between there and sixpct in early trading. Reuter
FED SETS TWO BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE,  The <New York Stock Exchange> said itis undertaking a review of the long-term effects on securitiesmarkets of computer-driven trading techniques known as programtrading.    The NYSE said, "The study will review major new tradingtechniques involving programmed portfolio hedging and indexarbitrage for their potential benefits and risks to thefinancial system.  It will also explore the regulatoryimplications of these trading techniques and whether theirincreased use could possibly lead to market abuse."    The exchange said a final report is expected before the endof 1987.  It said program trading is becoming increasinglyimportant as a market factor. Reuter
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange two billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.    Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-1/16 pct whenthe Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves tothe banking system. Reuter
ZAMBIAN EXCHANGE AUCTION TO RESUME AT END OF MARCH Zambia will reintroduce a modifiedforeign exchange auction at the end of this month as part of anew two-tier exchange rate, central bank governor LeonardChivuno said.    Chivuno told a press conference at the end of three weeksof negotiations with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) thatthere would be a fixed exchange rate for official transactionsand a fluctuating rate, decided by the auction, for other typesof business.    The Bank of Zambia previously held weekly auctions todistribute foreign exchange to the private sector and determinethe kwacha's exchange rate, but these were suspended at the endof January.    President Kenneth Kaunda said at the time that he wassuspending the auction system in view of the rapid devaluationand violent fluctations of the exchange rate which hadresulted.    Business and banking sources said another reason forsuspending the auction was that the central bank was low onforeign exchange and was 10 weeks behind in paying successfulbidders.    The kwacha stood at 2.2 per dollar when the auction systemwas first introduced in October 1985, but it slid to around 15per dollar by the time it was suspended 16 months later.    Since then, Zambia has operated a fixed exchange rate ofabout nine kwacha per dollar. REUTER
DOLLAR VALUE APPROPRIATE, BUNDESBANK OFFICIAL SAYS The dollar is near appropriate levelsagainst European currencies and the yen, and a further fallcould damage confidence in the currency while endangering worldeconomic growth, a top Bundesbank official said.    Board member Leonhard Gleske also told a Forex Associationconference current exchange rates of major currencies "can beviewed as equilibrium levels in a medium-term perspective."    He said the recent Paris agreement on currencystabilisation and policy coordination between the Group of Fiveand Canada may herald "an era of greater exchange ratestability."    The Paris agreement was not, however, an attempt to set uppermanent target zones for exchange rates, Gleske stressed,adding such targets would be extremely difficult to agree andenforce on an international level.    "At present levels the dollar can no longer be consideredgrossly overvalued in relation to the European currencies andthe yen," Gleske said.    He said the dollar had fallen much less against currenciesof important trading nations such as Canada, Korea, Taiwan andHong Kong, and further falls there may still be necessary.    But "a further dollar depreciation against major Europeancurrencies and the yen may not be the best way to restore thedollar to a fully competitive position, as measured by itsweighted external value," he said.   In fact, a further marked decline in the dollar rate wouldhold two major dangers, Gleske said.    First, in countries with large balance of paymentssurpluses such as Japan and West Germany, it threatened tohamper economic growth and thus slow down the expansion of realincome and domestic expenditure necessary to wipe outsurpluses.    Second, in the United States, it could damage investors'confidence in the dollar and thus reduce their willingness tofinance huge fiscal and external payments deficits, Gleskesaid.    Gleske also was strongly sceptical that an internationalsystem of binding target zones for currencies, fluctuating innarrow bands against each other, can be established. Suchtargets threatened to cause policy conflicts, "both withincountries and between them."    For instance, the U.S. Reliance on foreign capital to fundits deficits requires interest rates there be set at highlevels, but domestic considerations call for low ones.    If target zones were established, this would put "pressureon other countries to reduce their interest rates even more,even though this may be in conflict with their own domesticsituation and priorities," he said.    Gleske added, "targeting the exchange rate even within awide margin will meet with serious objections where there is aclearly perceived potential for conflict between domestic andexternal policy priorities."    Commenting on the Paris currency accord, Gleske said itschances of stabilising exchange rates rested heavily on currentinterest rate differentials being maintained.    These chances "seem to me to rest critically on theexpectation that the current configuration of interest rates,and the monetary policies behind them, will assure smoothfinancing of current account imbalances in the months ahead."    Gleske said past experience of currency adjustments hadlearned "that markets are inclined to be impatient and will thustend to overshoot." He said this "would seem to be unnecessaryand should be avoided if at all possible."    Monetary policies can help achieve this, but only ifmarkets believe that pledged changes in fiscal policies willlead to balanced international payments, he said. REUTER
GULF ARAB MINISTERS DISCUSS ECONOMIC COOPERATION Finance and economy ministers of theGulf Cooperation Council (GCC) opened a two- day meeting todiscuss further economic integration, officials said.    They said issues to be discussed by the ministers fromBahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United ArabEmirates (UAE) would include a recommendation by central bankgovernors on a common currency exchange rate.    The governors agreed in January on a denominator on whichto base currencies of the six states. Any decision will beforwarded for final approval to a GCC summit meeting due inSaudi Arabia late this year.    The six states have different currency systems. SaudiArabia, Bahrain, Qatar and the UAE are linked in theory to theInternational Monetary Fund's basket of currencies -- thespecial drawing right (SDR) -- but in practice to the dollar.    Oman links its currency formally to the dollar, whileKuwait pegs its dinar to a trade-weighted basket devised byitself.    The denominator chosen by central bank governors has notbeen disclosed, but some bankers expect the currencies to belinked to the SDR or a trade-weighted basket.    Opening the meeting, Ahmed al-Tayer, the UAE's Minister ofState for Finance and Industry, said implementation of jointeconomic agreements "is increasingly linking the interests ofGCC citizens together."    The general assembly of the Gulf Investment Corporation metin Abu Dhabi earlier under the chairmanship of Bahrain'sFinance and National Economy Minister, Ibrahim Abdul-Karim    The corporation was formed to contribute to joint economicand investment projects in the GCC.    Officials said the corporation's assets rose to 1.31billion dollars last year from 1.04 billion at the end of 1985. REUTER
YEN USURPS GODZILLA AS JAPAN'S FAVOURITE HORROR "Endaka," the strong yen, has usurped"Godzilla Versus the Sea Monster" as Japan's favourite horrorstory.    The yen's 40 pct surge against the dollar over the last twoyears has frightened foreigners with tales of the 40 dlr melon,the 120 dlr taxi ride from the airport and rents of 15,000 dlrsa month.    But "endaka," like many Japanese products, is for foreignconsumption, locals and long-time foreign residents said.    "It's not really that expensive. I don't pay attention tothe cost of living," said Cheryl Richmond, a 25-year-oldCanadian teacher of English in Tokyo.    Richmond said she earns 1,635 dlrs a month by "chatting" 40hours a week in English to Japanese who hope to learn thelanguage. For 326 dlrs a month she rents a sunny, quiettwo-room flat some 20 minutes by train from Shinjuku, one ofTokyo's prime business and entertainment districts, and hasmanaged to send home an average of 320 dlrs a month.    She spends less than 6.50 dlrs a day on food despite eatingout once a day.    "For lunch I buy the teishoku (daily special) which comeswith soba (buckwheat noodles) or pork cutlet, pickles, misosoup, rice and tea," although she takes only coffee forbreakfast and a sandwich for dinner.    No one argues that Tokyo is cheap, but long-time residentssee no need to spend the 2,000 to 15,000 dlrs a month spent byforeign firms to house executives in Western-style homes.    The companies feel otherwise. They say they must pay theprice to bring over the best people needed to back up theirpush into Japan's increasingly lucrative markets.    "You can't expect people to move from New York or Sydney andtrade down. It's not reasonable," said a spokesman forInternational Business Machines Corp (IBM), which supportsWestern lifestyles for more than 350 foreigners in Tokyo.    Tokyo is the world's most expensive city for businesstravellers, a survey issued this month by Employment ConditionsAbroad said. It found that businessmen visiting Tokyo spend onaverage more than 300 dlrs a day.    While the businessmen have little choice but to come here,many tourists, especially those from Europe, are opting tovisit sunnier and cheaper climes in Southeast Asia.    The Japan Tourist Bureau estimates "endaka" caused an 11.5pct drop in the number of foreign visitors to Japan last year.    Those who came tried to cut back on expenses, chiefly bycurtailing shopping, it said.    To help combat "endaka" and the slump in tourism, the TouristBureau prepared a pamphlet, "Economical Travel in Japan."    It gives budget-saving tips on finding medium-pricedbusiness hotels and Japanese-style inns, cheap sushi and publicbaths while getting a "revealing glimpse of Japanese in theirdaily lives."    Residents of Okubo House, a transit hotel in Tokyo'sShin-Okubo love hotel district, offer even more savvy advice.    For 9.80 dlrs a night, Scott Perry, a 23-year-old buddingEnglish teacher from New Zealand, shares an unheated,berth-sized twin-room in the Japanese "flop house."    Perry has budgeted 26 to 33 dlrs a day while he looks forwork. "Normally I eat 'teishoku' for 400 yen but sometimes I'llsplurge at Shakey's where for 550 yen you can eat unlimitedpizza for at least two hours."    Still, there are the extras that dent the budget. "I had tospend 600 yen today to dry-clean my suit coat," he said. REUTER
GLOBAL TRADING IN YEN BOND FUTURES EXPECTED SOON Global trading of yen bond futures isjust around the corner and they are expected to be listed soonon the London International Financial Futures Exchange (LIFFE)and the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT), bond managers said.    "Internationalisation of the yen through expansion ofoverseas portfolios in yen assets is the key to the success ofglobal trading of yen bond futures," said Katsuyuki Okayasu,general manager of Yamaichi Securities Co Ltd's bond division.    "But Tokyo-based orders are necessary for a primary stimulusfor the LIFFE yen bond futures market," said Tetsuya Dezuka,deputy general manager of the money market section of New JapanSecurities Co Ltd, one of the most active yen bond brokers inLondon.    Healthy growth of yen bond futures markets dependsbasically on substantial liquidity in cash yen bond marketsoverseas and on the yen becoming attractive to traders there,dealers said.    Outstanding yen cash bonds worldwide stand at around140,000 billion yen, with most held in Japan, they said.    An agreement between CBOT and LIFFE in early February onmutual settlements is expected to link U.S. Treasury bondfutures trading in London and Chicago, enabling a continuous12-hour session, bond managers here said, adding the move wasmade with yen bond futures trading in mind.    LIFFE is preparing for an early listing of yen bond futuresafter receiving approval from Japan's Finance Ministry lastDecember.    But futures markets will never take root unless they arebacked by substantial liquidity in cash bond markets, dealerssaid.    Daily transactions in the London yen cash bond market nowstand at 200 to 300 billion yen, but the extent of investor-linked transactions is unknown, securities bond managers said.    "Japanese corporations have been actively setting up theirfinancing companies in London, suggesting they increasingly areengaging in, not only fund raising, but management there,"Dezuka said.    The steep increase in the number of branches of Japanesesecurities houses in London and the growing numbers of U.S. AndU.K. Brokers coming to Tokyo has helped the London market'sgrowth, dealers said.    Internationalisation of the yen is also likely to bepromoted by yen bond trading in Chicago and New York later thisyear, securities managers said.    The recent removal of a key regulatory obstacle by the U.S.Securities and Exchange Commission will allow the CBOT to applyto the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a yen bondfutures contract, they said.    The ruling removed a regulation which prohibited tradingfutures of designated foreign government debt securities notlocated in the issuing country.    Fundamental Brokers Inc, a major U.S. Brokers' broker, hasdecided to launch yen bond broking on its display system in NewYork as early as April.    CBOT's start of an evening session, planned for the end ofApril, will also multiply yen bond futures trading, a NomuraSecurities Co Ltd bond manager said. But there are stillobstacles to trading on the London market.    "Problems concerning cash bond delivery and clearing aremajor obstacles for an early launching at LIFFE," said KokiChiyojima, deputy general manager of Nikko Securities Co Ltd'sbond administration division.    Nikko Securities Co Ltd, one of the big four Japanesesecurities houses, is responsible for corresponding with LIFFEon these matters.    Japan's Finance Ministry will start issuing bonds withcoupon payment of either March and September, or June andDecember from April 1, matching futures delivery months.    The ministry now pays coupons in January, June, July andDecember. When delivery months and coupon payments do notmatch, a 20 pct withholding tax is imposed on interest earnedby non-resident bond holders, a deterrent to LIFFE, securitiesmanagers said.    LIFFE is likely to wait until the outstanding amount ofbonds with matching months increases to over several billionyen, bond managers said.    These bonds will be used for deliveries, as they areexpected to be the cheapest deliverable issues due to lowinterest rates, they said.    Market participants here expect a clearing organisation tobe set up by the time they have substantial deliverable cashissues, making overseas listings probable in the latter half of1987. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it had invitedan early round of bill offers from the discount houses afterforecasting a shortage in the system of around 1.1 billion stg.    Money market dealers speculated that the central bank couldbe taking the opportunity to signal a reduction in U.K. Baselending rates by cutting the rates at which it intervenes inthe discount market.    Most operators are expecting a base rate cut today,possibly of one point, following yesterday's budget in whichthe U.K. Public sector borrowing target for 1987/88 was slashedby three billion stg.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturingin official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drainsome 1.11 billion stg while a rise in note circulation andbankers' balances below target will take out around 120 mln stgand 20 mln stg respectively.    Partly offsetting these outflows, exchequer transactionswill add some 140 mln stg to the system today. REUTER
LAWSON SAYS HE IS CONTENT WITH CURRENT STERLING EXCHA Talks are underway between financiallytroubled Zaire and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) aimedat rescuing the economy of the second largest nation insub-Saharan Africa.    Diplomatic and banking sources in Kinshasa agreed that acompromise formula could be reached in the coming weeksenabling pro-Western Zaire to obtain a much needed injection ofcash.    For its part the government is expected to increasebudgetary discipline, which in turn is likely to attractforeign investors, the sources said.    "Barring last-ditch obstacles, which can't be totally ruledout in an issue involving a nation's pride and substantialpolitical and economic interests, Zaire and its creditors arebound to come to terms soon," a Western diplomat told Reuters.    "The Zairean economy won't survive without massive IMFassistance. Similarily, the West has no interest to see Zaire'sstrategic minerals fall into communist hands," the diplomatsaid.    Zaire defied its creditors late last year by saying itwould limit repayments on its five billion dlr external debt to10 pct of its export earnings from January 1987.    The government also announced an end to the floatingexchange rate for the zaire currency and a return to a fixedparity against special drawing rights (SDRs) with periodicadjustments.    Until last year, Zaire devoted up to 28 pct of its exportrevenue to servicing large foreign debts contracted during thecopper boom of the 1970's to finance largely non-productive andoften extravagant investment projects.    Zaire, the world's leading cobalt producer and the sixthlargest supplier of copper, depends on the two minerals fortwo-thirds of its export earnings.    "A young country cannot go on indefinitely sacrificingeverything for the sake of servicing its external debt,"President Mobutu Sese Seko commented in October when heannounced his government's decision.    As early as January 1986, Mobutu had warned that "one doesnot feed on austerity and praise. I have another debt, onetoward my people and my people's efforts must not backfire," hetold diplomats.    Zaire pointed out that during four years of IMF-backedausterity (1983-86), it had become a net exporter of capitalwithout receiving appropriate financing from abroad.    Economists said that since the large devaluation of thezaire currency in September 1983, the country suffered a netoutflow of 830 mln dlrs each year.    Zaire's medium and long term public debt in the past fewyears reached an equivalent of about 100 pct of its GrossNational Product (GNP), one of the highest such ratios in theworld, banking sources said.    Mobutu accused the IMF of "strangling" his country at anOctober meeting of the ruling MPR party and said his peoplecould not long endure the hardship caused by austerity.    Zairean officials blame their present difficulties on theIMF recovery plan's two basic assumptions which, they said,failed to materialise last year,    - a world economic recovery pushing up commodity prices andboosting Zaire's export revenue and debt servicing capacity,    - substantial, additional financial help from the country'straditional donors.    In 1983 Zaire set out on a major economic reform aimed atcurbing its soaring debt. It floated its currency, slashedspending and privatised industry, gaining praise from Westerncreditors and obtaining debt rescheduling.    As a result, the overall economic and financial situationimproved markedly, with inflation down to 41 pct last year from100 pct in 1983.    But it also led to a severe and steady fall in livingstandards for Zaire's 35 mln population, fuelling widespreaddiscontent among poorer city dwellers, diplomats said.    Economists estimate the drop in purchasing power at between20 and 35 pct for an average household over the last 12 months,despite a pay rise of up to 67 pct for civil servants announcedlast May.    The World Bank has released in the last two months half ofa previously-agreed 80 mln dlrs industrial sector loan and lent27.6 mln dlrs to modernise the country's vital river transportsystem.    Belgium, Zaire's former colonial ruler and its main tradingpartner, recently agreed to release a total of 17 mln dlrs toease payments difficulties and finance imports of spare partsfor industry.    A new agreement between the IMF and Zaire would pave theway for another debt rescheduling, probably at the next meetingof the Paris Club of Western creditor nations, diplomats said. REUTER
LAWSON HAPPY WITH STERLING, BACKS LATEST RATE CUT Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawsonsaid he was content with the current level of sterling andwelcomed today's announcement of a further half point cut inBritish bank base lending rates to 10 pct.    However, he said he wanted to see a gradual approach todeclines in domestic U.K. Interest rates, although optimism infinancial markets might push for big moves quickly.    He told a briefing of economic journalists that "I don'tthink we should rush anything." Lawson stressed the themes of"gradualism and steadiness" as economic policy.    Lawson acknowledged that today's fall in interest rateswere in response to his budget for fiscal 1987/88, unveiledyesterday to Parliament and which set a lower target for thekey Public Sector Borrowing Requirement (PSBR) of 1.0 pct ofGDP.    Lawson said the two recent cuts in base rates, both madethis month in the form of half percentage point declines, were"perfectly consistent" with monetary conditions now in Britain.    He supported that by saying the narrow M0 money supplyaggregate was "safely inside" its flucuation band of two to sixpct set for both 1986/87 and 1987/88. In his budget, Lawson setno explicit target range for the broader sterling M3.    Turning to the question of Britain eventually joining theexchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS),Lawson repeated that "it is most unlikely we will enter beforethe next election."    He said Britain was keeping the subject of full EMSmembership under constant review. But he would not indicatewhat the chief considerations for this were for the government.    Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher late last year said adecision on whether or not to join depended on the strength ofthe U.K. Economy. But she later said such a move depended onother EMS countries scrapping residual capital controls.    Although Lawson denounced what he said was "the current waveof election fever" in Britain, he added:  "It is more likely thatthere will be an election this year" than not.    He said he supported an early election only because itwould clear the air. "Ideally, we (the government) should have afull term," but events could force a premature poll, Lawsonsaid.    The government, which has been in power since 1979, mustcall an election by June 1988. Speculation is rising for eithera June or an early autumn election, political sources said.    The decision to cut basic tax by only two pence in 1987/88"was the right balance, economically and politically," he said.    Lawson's decision to restrict the fall in the standard rateof tax to two-pence surprised many analysts, who had predictedthat with Treasurys coffers full of tax revenue would haveallowed the government to reach its goal of 25 pct in one move.    But it was being praised today by political analysts as ashrewd move which, while advancing towards that aim, could notbe seized upon by opposition parties as overtly trying to bribethe electorate.    Lawson told journalists he had been surprised by how muchthe PSBR had undershot his original assumption of 7.1 billionstg for 1986/87 -- by some three billion stg.    Returning to changing levels of interest rates, Lawsonstressed that "they are not an objective (for the government) -they are an instrument of policy." Consequently the Treasury hadno precise target for domestic borrowing levels, he said.    But "there may be interest rate consequences" from changes inthe level of government borrowing, he added.    Lawson said he did not think that the U.K.'s relativelyhigh level of real interest rates had hurt investment inBritain.    He said conditions created by London's role as a leadingfinancial centre had caused sterling interest rates to behigher in real terms than in other countries.    Three factors had caused the higher level in relativeinterest rates in Britain, Lawson said.    First, control of credit in Britain rested on interestrates alone, due to the freedom of its financial markets.    He said the second reason was political uncertainty causedby proposed spending plans of the opposition Labour Party.     Thirdly, he said "we do not have as long a track record oflow inflation" as did the U.S., Japan and West Germany.    Lawson foresaw London becoming the world's pre-eminentfinancial centre, because it was more international incharacter and more favourably placed in time zones than NewYork or Tokyo. REUTER
BUNDESBANK SEEN STEERING STEADY MONETARY COURSE The Bundesbank is likely to steer asteady monetary course over the next few weeks and a change incredit policies is not expected at tomorrow's regular centralbank council meeting, bank economists and dealers said.    "There is no need for action," Hermann Remsperger, chiefeconomist of Berliner Handels- and Frankfurter Bank (BHF) said.    Others noted that exchange rates are stable after lastmonth's Group of Six agreement in Paris and central bank moneystock growth is still well above the three to six pct targetzone, so a change in credit policies could be ruled out.    One money market dealer said comments by BundesbankPresident Karl Otto Poehl at a private seminar in Duesseldorftwo weeks ago hinting at another interest rate cut onlyindicated the Bundesbank might act if conditions changed.    Bank economists said U.S. Pressure on West Germany tofurther ease credit policies had receded since the Paris pact.    But such demands could re-emerge if West Germany failed tostimulate its economy enough to affect the massive U.S. Tradedeficit.    Remsperger said continued strong money supply growth alsoprecluded a further cut in official interest rates.    Central bank money stock was growing at an annualized 7.5pct in February, unchanged from the 7.5 pct in January.    Economists said some of the 18 members of the central bankcouncil were worried about the continued overshoot in the moneysupply target and were bound to resist any moves to cut rates.But Poehl played down the risk of inflation.    Economists said the fact that money stock growth remainedstable last month was a success. Some said it was likely toreturn to within the target range later this year.    "The special factors which boosted money supply growth lastyear are disappearing," one economist said.    He said some 75 pct of the money supply increase in 1986was caused by a sharp rise in the inflow of foreign funds.    This trend had been reversed recently and with domesticcredit demand likely to remain at steady levels, money stockgrowth was expected to narrow in the medium-term.    These developments were increasing the Bundesbank's scopefor a rate cut in the medium-term, economists said.    Money market dealers said period rates remained littlechanged, indicating no change in credit policy was expected.    Call money rates declined to 3.75/80 pct from 3.90/95yesterday, with the market well stocked with liquidity.    Dealers said call money was soft because tax payments onbehalf of customers had been less than expected so far. Butrates were likely to tighten again as soon as the full effectof this month's major tax payment period is felt. Payments forthe federal railways bond are also likely to burden the market.    The Bundesbank did not inject liquidity via a securitiesrepurchase agreement this week, but countered a tightening inrates on Monday by injecting funds through government-ownedbanks.    Dealers said recent securities repurchase pacts had shownthe Bundesbank clearly wanted call money rates stable at 3.80.    One dealer said, "If the central bank wanted lower interestrates, it would first of all drive call money rates down."    Banks remained relatively well stocked with minimum reserveassets. They held 52.9 billion marks in minimum reserves onMonday, averaging 53.7 billion marks over the first 16 days ofMarch. A requirement of around 51 billion is expected. REUTER
BANKERS TRUST ISSUING STG/DLR CURRENCY WARRANTS Bankers Trust International Ltd said itis issuing 200,000 stg call/dlr put currency warrants at aninitial offer price of 31.25 dlrs per warrant.    The issue is guaranteed by Bankers Trust New York Corp.    Each warrant entitles the holder to exchange 500 dlrs forstg at a rate of 1.60 stg/dlr and the minimum number ofwarrants exercisable or tradeable is 100.    Exercise period for the warrants will run from April 22,1987 until March 17, 1989. Payment is due April 15, 1987. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 15 MLN STG AFTERNOON HELP The Bank of England said it had providedthe money market with a further 15 mln stg assistance. Thisbrings the Bank's total help so far today to 344 mln stg andcompares with the estimated shortage of around 1.3 billion stg.    The central bank purchased bank bills outright, at thelower dealing rates established this morning, comprising onemln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct and 14 mln stg in band two at9-13/16 pct. REUTER
U.K. BASE RATES WILL FALL AGAIN SOON, SAY ANALYSTS Today's modest half-point cut in U.K.Bank base lending rates to 10 pct signals the Bank of England'sdetermination to maintain a cautious monetary stance, butfinancial markets appear set to force its hand, analysts said.    They said a further half-point cut in base rates to 9-1/2pct was bound to occur within the next week and rates may sheda further half point soon if markets remain buoyant.    Earlier, markets were bracing for a one-point cut in ratesafter yesterday's budget set a sharp three billion stgreduction in 1987 government borrowing targets to four billionstg.    Sterling money market rates moved lower again, with the keythree-month interbank rate down to 9-5/8 1/2 pct at the startof business from 9-11/16 9/16 yesterday, and sterling ralliedto four-year highs against the dollar in very active trading.    Government bond prices also surged on the budget, withgains in excess of one point pushing yields on long-term paperbelow nine pct for the first time in nearly a year.    But today's smaller than expected rate cut appeared to haveplacated markets for now, analysts said. Money market ratesrecovered up to 1/4 point from earlier lows while both sterlingand gilts came off highs as trading ground to a near halt.    Analysts said the slowdown was likely to be temporary, andthe reappraisal of sterling assets by international investorswas set to resume as early as tomorrow, leading to higher giltprices, exchange rate advances and lower money market rates.    "Today's cut was slightly disappointing," said Bill Martin,chief U.K. Economist at stockbrokers Phillips and Drew. "TheBank of England is taking a very cautious line ... To temperthe markets' first rush of blood to the head after the budget."    Analysts said the bank's move today to lend two-week cashto U.K. Discount houses at a lower 10 pct suggested it hoped tomaintain the new rates for about that period of time.    The analysts agreed success would depend largely on howsterling performs in the near term.    Sharp rises in the pound's value could be checked initiallythrough Bank of England intervention but eventually the gainswould force the bank to cut interest rates rates again.    "The market seems to have accepted the modest cut for thetime being," said Midland Bank treasury economist DavidSimmonds. "But I am sceptical that the bank will be able to holdup rates for long."    Simmonds said he saw sterling rising another two U.S. Centsthis week from around 1.60 dlrs, forcing a rate cut by Friday.    Robin Marshall, chief economist at Chase ManhattanSecurities, said "There is another half point to come in thenear term, this week or next week at the latest...We see awhole point off base rates in the next two or three weeks."    Analysts stressed that apart from prestige, Britain hadvery little to gain from a sharp rise in sterling's exchangerate.    Martin, of Phillips and Drew, said the dampening effect ofa sterling rise on consumer price inflation would notmaterialise for at least nine months while its hampering impacton manufactured exports would show almost immediately.    Analysts said the budget, featuring income tax cuts as wellas cautious plans for public finances, had improved the chancesof re-election for the Conservative government and probablyadvanced the election date. One must be held before June, 1988.Combined with overall good prospects for the U.K. Economy, thiswas likely to fuel a foreign rush on sterling-denominatedassets, pushing the pound's value well above unofficialtargets.    With mark-denominated investments largely out of favourbecause of low yields and a dull economic outlook, Chase'sMarshall said "Sterling is simply the best game in town,especially after the budget, and demand will remain strong." REUTER
GULF ARAB STATES MOVE TOWARDS ECONOMIC INTEGRATION Finance and economy ministers of thesix-nation Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) have ended talksafter adopting resolutions and recommendations aimed atboosting economic integration.    But the ministers from Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, SaudiArabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) did not endorse aresolution on a common currency exchange rate system.    The UAE's Minister of State for Finance and Industry, AhmedHumaid al-Tayer, told reporters after the two-day talks thatthe ministers referred the issue back to GCC central bankgovernors for further discussion.    He said the governors, who agreed in January on a proposeddenominator on which the six currencies should be based, wereasked to resubmit the recommendation before July, when financeministers were due to meet in Saudi Arabia.    Bankers said the central bank governors would meet soon todiscuss the issue, adding there was a possibility that a newsystem could be submitted for final approval to a GCC summitconference scheduled to be held in Saudi Arabia late this year.    The denominator approved by the governors has not been madepublic, but banking sources said it could be similar to theEuropean Monetary System (EMS).    Tayer said the ministers agreed in principle to allow GCCcitizens to set up businesses and work in any member state.They also agreed in principle on a recommendation for citizensto buy and own shares of GCC shareholding firms.    He said the ministers discussed a report on imported goodscontaining radiation caused by last year's Chernobyl nucleardisaster in the Soviet Union, and agreed all products withexcessive levels should be returned to the country of origin. REUTER
FORMER N.Z. PREMIER CALLS FOR CHEAPER CURRENCY Former Prime Minister RobertMuldoon, an outspoken advocate of a managed float for the N.Z.Dollar, said the currency is at least 10 pct overvalued.    Muldoon said in a speech last night the exchange rateshould be around 48 U.S. Cents instead of the current 57 cents.    "A reasonable value for the New Zealand dollar would bebetween 10 and 15 pct less and nearer 15 than 10. Perhapsaround about 48 cents," he said.    The Labour Party government removed exchange controls andfloated the dollar two years ago when it was worth 44 cents.    Muldoon has no rank in the opposition National Party, andparty leaders, with an eye to general elections to be held bySeptember, have rejected his calls for a managed float.    He said the dollar was high because of "grossly excessive"interest rates for government stock.    "I know of no other country which is implementing such afree floating policy," he added. "There is widespread agreementinternationally that we have no alternative to floatingcurrencies in the short to medium term. But we need moreeffective methods of managing them so as to limit thevolatility which has caused so much concern and damage." REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 450 MLN STG The Bank of England said it forecast ashortage of around 450 mln stg in the money market today.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturingin official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drainsome 650 mln stg while a rise in note circulation will take outaround 30 mln stg.    Partly offsetting these outflows, bankers' balances abovetarget and exchequer transactions will add some 200 mln stg and35 mln stg to the system respectively. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED DOWN The Bank of England said it revised downits estimate of the deficit in the system today to 400 mln stgfrom 450 mln. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 181 MLN STG ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it provided themoney market with 181 mln stg in assistance this morning.    This compares with the Bank's revised shortage forecast ofaround 400 mln stg.    The central bank purchased bank bills outright at the newdealing rates established yesterday.    These comprised 65 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 114mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct and two mln stg in bandthree at 9-3/4 pct. REUTER
U.S. CREDIT MARKET OUTLOOK - SPENDING, M-1 Brisk increases in personal income andconsumption are to appear in February data released today, butthe bond market's recent sluggishness suggests there will be nomajor price reaction unless the rises are much larger thanexpected, economists said.    Personal income is forecast to rise by 0.6 to 0.8 pct,compared with no change in January, while consumptionexpenditures are projected to increase 1.4 to 1.6 pct,reversing most of the two pct drop recorded in January.    M-1 money supply data for the March 9 week will also bereleased. An increase of some 2.3 billion dlrs is expected.        Peter Greenbaum of Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co Incexpects a one pct rise in income, led by a strong gain in wageand salary disbursements in February.    Nonfarm payrolls expanded by 337,000 jobs in February, theaverage workweek lengthened by 0.6 pct and hourly wages rose byfour cts, he noted in a report. Vigorous spending on durablegoods last month, especially cars, foreshadow a rise of atleast 1.5 pct in consumption, he added.    The prospect of bearish data did not trouble the bondmarket much yesterday, with the 30-year Treasury bond slippingjust 7/32 to 99-28/32 for a yield of 7.51 pct.    Analysts said the market is still trapped in a narrowrange, desperately seeking direction.    "Seasonally adjusted, it's already December in the bondmarket," quipped Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities CoInternational Inc.    Paul Boltz of T. Rowe Price Associates Inc said thesteadiness of long bond yields around 7.5 pct, despite somesigns of a stronger economy, probably reflects expectationsthat inflation will remain subdued.    But he warned that this assumption might not be justified.    "It took the bond market a long while to see that inflationwas not returning to double digits, and now that it has learnedthat lesson, it may be a little slow to see that a four to fivepct inflation is a real possibility ahead," Boltz said in areport.    After trading late yesterday at 5-15/16 pct, Fed funds wereindicated by brokers to open comfortably at 5-15/16, six pct. Reuter
S.AFRICA'S FINANCIAL RAND SEEN HEADED HIGHER The financial rand, widely viewedas a direct reflection of foreign investor confidence in SouthAfrica, appears headed above 30 U.S. Cents, dealers and bankeconomists said.    The currency has risen about 25 pct in the past threemonths to its current rate of 29.50 cents, due partly to signsof a possible power shift with the appearance of a number ofindependent candidates in the whites-only election on May 6,they added.    It has risen about two cents this week alone.    "Another factor is that banks in London, where the mainmarket is based, are going long in the currency because of ageneral feeling that it will rise in the future," one economistsaid.    Dealers described 30 cents as a psychological barrier thatwas expected to be broken soon after a brief consolidationphase from recent gains.    After reaching 30 cents, "There is a chance of appreciationto 32 cents in the next several weeks," one dealer said.    There was a widespread feeling that both the commercialrand, holding stable at 48 cents, and the financial rand werestaying firm, banking sources said.    A Barclays National Bank executive who asked not to beidentified said: "The rise of the independents appears to beindicative of a potential shift of power in the National Partyand has created a favourable sentiment overseas."    One dealer said growing business and investor interest fromWest Germany and Switzerland were behind the financial rand'srise.    Economists said foreigners also were being attracted bySouth Africa's long-term government bonds and "semi-gilts" orsecurities in partly government-owned firms, many with yieldsas high as 30 pct. They could be purchased with financial randswith interest paid in commercial rands.    "This has had a definite influence on the financial form ofthe rand," a dealer said, adding that at present demand isslightly in excess of supply.    The financial rand was reintroduced in September 1985 tohelp end capital flight from South Africa during a period ofsevere political unrest in the country. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 191 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it gave themoney market a further 191 mln stg assistance in the afternoonsession. This takes the Bank's total help so far today to 372mln stg and compares with its upwards revised estimate of theshortage in the system of around 400 mln stg.    The central bank bought bank bills outright comprising 15mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct and 176 mln stg in band two at9-13/16 pct. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 40 MLN STG LATE ASSISTANCE The bank of England said it provided themoney market with late assistance of around 40 mln stg. Thisbrings the Bank's total help today to some 412 mln stg andcompares with its forecast of a shortage in the sytem of around400 mln stg. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO TAKE NO MONEY MARKET ACTION The Federal Reserve is expected torefrain from reserve-management intervention in the U.S.Government securities market, economists said.    If the Fed does act, however, they said it would be likelyto add temporary reserves indirectly by arranging around 1.5billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements.    Federal funds, which averaged 5.97 pct yesterday, opened atsix pct and remained there in early trading. Reuter
FED SAYS IT SETS 1.5 BILLION DLRS OF CUSTOMER REPURCHASE AG The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange 1.5 billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.    Dealers said Federal funds were trading at six pct when theFed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to thebanking system. Reuter
FED'S JOHNSON URGES STRONGER ALLIED GROWTH Federal Reserve Board Vice ChairmanManuel Johnson said that the U.S.'s main industrial partnersshould expand their domestic growth.    In a speech to a women's group here, Johnson said, "There isroom for stronger domestic growth in those countries ... strongenough to absorb growth in U.S. export markets."    Johnson also said there was a better alignment of exchangerates now and the Paris agreement to stabilize currencies hasbrought western nations a long way towards establishing thatgoal.    Johnson said, "The Fed supports this pattern of exchangerates ... and we'll see if it leads to a convergence in trade.Quite possibly it can be achieved."    Johnson said the Paris agreement achieved a betteralignment of exchange rates in exchange for stimulus by themajor surplus countries.    He said this was "a major improvement and a step in theright direction" and added U.S. allies look very strongly to aU.S. budget deficit cut. "There will always be a potential riskof breakdown in international cooperation" without a budgetdeficit cut. Reuter
U.K. MONEY DATA MAY EASE RATE CUT, ANALYSTS SAY Slower than expected growth in Britain'snarrow M0 money supply measure in February will help spur afurther cut in U.K. Interest rates if a surge in sterling'svalue requires such a move, economic analysts said.    M0, the only targeted money supply measure left afterChancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson scrapped the officialtarget for the broad sterling M3 measure in his 1987 budgetspeech on Tuesday, fell an adjusted 3/4 to one pct in February.    On an annual basis, this put M0 growth at four to 4-1/2pct, in the middle of the 1987 target of two to six pct.    "The M0 data are much better than we expected," said RobertThomas, economist at Greenwell Montagu Securities.    He and other analysts said while the better than expectedM0 figures alone would not be sufficient to trigger a newinterest rate cut, they removed an obstacle to such a move.    Thomas noted the rise in M0 had been kept in check despitebuoyant retail sales in February, advancing an adjusted 2.2 pctafter a fall of the same size in January.    Analysts said the M0 measure, reflecting variations inconsumer demand rather than real inflation prospects, was notan adequate indicator to determine interest rates.    "The authorities still seem to want to pretend that M0 isimportant ... In practice, it is likely to be the exchange rateand the election which call the tune," Lloyds Merchant bankchief economist Roger Bootle wrote in a budget comment.    Richard Jeffrey, economist at stockbrokers Hoare Govett,said in a comment: "It is unlikely that (Lawson) will respond tosignals from M0 alone ... Reinforcement from exchange ratetrends is necessary before action is taken."    "With the Chancellor making clear that policy manoeuvres aremade in response to signals from this narrow money variable,the City has been forced to take it seriously," he added.    Noting this point, Thomas said market fears at the end oflast year of an M0 overshoot had now disappeared.    This removed a potential obstacle to a further cut in U.K.Base lending rates if foreign demand for sterling pushed up thepound above unofficial targets, analysts said.    Such targets are believed to have been secretly agreedbetween finance ministers of the Group of Five and Canada attheir Paris meeting last month, they added.  U.K. Base rates have been cut twice by half a point since theParis agreement, once on March 11, and again yesterday whenforeign demand for sterling surged in reaction to a sharp cutin 1987 government borrowing targets contained in the budget.    They stand at 10 pct now, and foreign exchange dealers andanalysts expect them to shed another half-point in the comingweek.    Analysts shrugged off as largely irrelevant a higher thanexpected increase in February sterling M3, which pushed theannual growth rate to almost 19 pct, well above the previoustarget of 11 to 15 pct.    Thomas said the February figures seemed to indicate theimprovement in sterling M3 growth witnessed over the past fewmonths had been reversed, but firm conclusions could only bedrawn after revised data are released on March 31.    Some analysts said foreign investors had long ceased towatch the sterling M3 target, and Lawson's move to scrap italtogether earlier this week removed whatever was left of itscredibility as a key factor in monetary policy. REUTER
SPRINKEL URGES GREATER GROWTH IN JAPAN, EUROPE Beryl Sprinkel, chairman ofthe president's council of economic advisors, said strongerdomestic demand growth in Japan and Western Europe is needed tohelp stimulate U.S. exports without having to rely on futherdollar declines.    "Stronger domestic demand growth in the major foreignindustrial countries is needed to engender the much neededexpansion of U.S. export markets without having to rely onfurther dollar depreciation," he told the Futures IndustryAssociation.    Sprinkel said the recent recovery of domestic demand inJapan and Europe has been one of the weakest in the post-warperiod.    "Stronger domestic demand growth in the major industrialcountries would help give balance to the current worldrecovery," he said.    Asked if Japan was not living up to commitments made lastmonth to trading partners, he said recent figures showedJapan's economy grew by about 0.5 pct in the fourth quarter of1986, "Not enough to sustain employment growth."    However, Sprinkel said Japan had not reneged on its pledgesand was moving toward more stimulative policies, including taxreform. "I suspect there will be further moves," he said.    Sprinkel repeated his call for further cuts in U.S.government spending and for resistance to tax increases.    "Reducing the federal government budget deficit byexpenditure restraint is needed to preserve the low marginaltax rates achieved by tax reform," he said, adding that "a voteto increase to government expenditures is a vote against taxreform."    Sprinkel said the fall of the dollar had substantiallyrestored U.S. cost competitiveness and that the deteriorationof the U.S. trade balance appeared to have abated.    However, he said that "sole reliance on dollar depreciationto reduce our trade deficit is not desirable," as it risksinflation in the United States and recession abroad.    "I am confident that further improvements in our tradeperformance will contribute significantly to growth in 1987," hesaid. Improvements in the U.S. trade balance, he said, willcome about largely from a swing in manufactures trade andpresent "serious adjustment problems for U.S. trading partners."    Western Europe, where manufactures output and employmenthave been weak, promises to be especially hard hit by theimprovement in the U.S. trade balance, Sprinkel said.    He defended flexible exchange rates saying wide swings inrates were not a fault of the system but of the undesirablepolicies that produced them. Reuter
ITALIAN PANEL URGES EXCHANGE LIBERALIZATION Liberalization of Italy's foreign exchangecontrols should be "gradual" but also "reasonably rapid," a reportissued by a study committee nominated by the Italian TreasuryMinistry said.   The report, looking at the country's financial developmentprospects, said Italy's large public sector deficit and growingpublic debt were among the considerations that made a gradualliberalization preferable.    The report also favoured retention of the lira's six pctoscillation band with the European Monetary System (EMS) duringthe liberalization process in order to lessen short-termdomestic interest rate fluctuations which could result fromportfolio adjustments.    The lira's fluctuation margin is currently significantlyhigher than that allowed for other EMS currencies.    Italy has over recent months announced a series ofderegulation moves in response to a European Communitydirective aimed at creating a genuine common market in goods,services and finance by 1992. Reuter
LAWSON REPEATS HE IS CONTENT WITH STERLING LEVEL U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigeltoday repeated that he was satisfied with the current level ofsterling, both against the dollar and the West German mark.    Lawson said in a television interview that he did notregard the pound's present exchange rate was uncomfortablyhigh.    "I think it is round about right," he said.    "I think there was a time that they (British manufacturers)thought the (exchange) rate was uncomfortably high. But I thinkthey are very satisfied with the present level."    "But I have made it absolutely clear that I don't want tosee the pound go through the roof," he added. Reuter
SINGAPORE EXCHANGE PLANS OPTIONS CONTRACTS The Singapore InternationalMonetary Exchange Ltd, SIMEX, said it would launch at least twooptions on futures contracts this year.    SIMEX said in a press release that the options contractswould be based on the currency and interest rate futurescurrently traded on the exchange and be started "toward thethird quarter."    SIMEX, which is linked to the Chicago Mercantile Exchange,currently trades three currency futures -- on Deutsche marks,Japanese yen and British pounds -- and two interest ratefutures -- on U.S. Treasury-bonds and three-month Eurodollars. Reuter
SHORT-TERM YEN INTEREST RATES SEEN FALLING SOON Japanese short-term interest rates,buoyed recently by seasonal factors, are likely to fall fromthe beginning of April when the new financial year begins,money traders said.    The Bank of Japan is expected to encourage the trendfollowing its attempts to pressure rates to enhance itsdiscount rate cut on February 23, they said.    The Bank cut the rate to 2.5 pct from three, and beganactively injecting funds into the money market to offset raterises resulting from the end-of-fiscal-year surge in demand forfunds from financial institutions.    Despite its attempts to dampen rates with measures such asaggressive commercial bill purchases, the central bank hasfailed to remove all upward pressure, money traders said.    Attractive interest rates offered by domestic banks tocompete for time deposits of more than 600 mln yen hasunderpinned short-term rates, they said.    Interest rates on time deposits of more than 600 mln yenwere decontrolled by the Finance Ministry last September.    This resulted in such deposits with domestic banks risingto 17,830 billion yen by the end-December, a three-foldincrease on end-December 1985 levels, bankers said.    On March 31, the money market expects to see a 2,000billion yen surplus resulting from government payment of fiscalfunds, money traders said.    From April 1, they predict the unconditional call rate willfall to 3.5000 pct from 3.7500 pct today and the one-monthcommercial bill discount rate to drop to 3.7500 pct from 4.0635pct.    They predict the three-month bill discount rate to slip to3.875 pct from 4.0000 today and the three-month certificate ofdeposit rate to slide to 4.10/4.15 from 4.35/25. REUTER
NEW DUTCH ADVANCES TOTAL FOUR BILLION GUILDERS The Dutch Central Bank said it hasaccepted bids totalling 4.00 billion guilders at tender thismorning for new five-day special advances at 5.3 pct for theperiod March 20 to 25.    Subscriptions to 250 mln guilders were fully met, amountsabove 250 mln at 30 pct.    The new facility replaces old 11-day advances totalling 6.5billion guilders at the same rate. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it had invitedan early round of bill offers from the discount houses afterforecasting a shortage of around 950 mln stg in the moneymarket today.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturingin official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drainaround 572 mln stg while a rise in note circulation wil takeout some 280 mlns stg.    In addition, exchequer transactions and bankers' balancesbelow target will remove some 85 mln stg and 15 mln stg for thesystem respectively. REUTER
BANK OF FINLAND WILL ANNOUNCE NEW MEASURES The Bank of Finland called a newsconference at 1200 GMT to announce new measures for the"development of the system of monetary control."    A spokesman for the Bank declined to give further details.    Banking sources said they expected the bank to announce itwill actively take part in the interbank market and buy andsell certificates of deposit.    The state treasury issues government paper with a maturityof up to one year. The central bank has so far not issued itsown paper, the sources said. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 728 MLN STG EARLY HELP The Bank of England said it had providedthe money market with 728 mln stg assistance in response to anearly round of bill offers from the discount houses.    Earlier, the Bank had estimated the shortage in the systemtoday at 950 mln stg.    The central bank purchased 625 mln stg of bills for resaleto the market on April 7 at rates of interest between 9-15/16pct and 10 pct.    It also bought 103 mln stg bank bills outright comprising65 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct and 38 mln stg in band twoat 9-13/16 pct. REUTER
BANK OF SPAIN SUSPENDS ASSISTANCE, DRAINS FUNDS The Bank of Spain suspended its dailymoney market assistance and offered to drain funds with three-and seven-day repurchase agreements at 12-1/2 pct, money marketsources said.    The sources said the measures were a further attempt torein in money supply and were likely to force some institutionsto scramble for funds before the 10-day accounting period forreserve requirements closes on Monday.    The bank, which raised its rate for ordinary overnightassistance to 13-3/4 from 13-1/2 pct on Wednesday, opened itsspecial borrowing facility for overnight funds at 14-1/2 pct.    Money market sources said institutions in need of fundswere likely to have to return to the bank tomorrow for furtherassistance.    The bank rarely invites applications for ordinaryassistance on a Saturday and the sources said it was morelikely to open its special borrowing facility again. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 31 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it gave themoney market another 31 mln stg in assistance in the morningsession.    This brings the Bank's total help today to 759 mln stg andcompares with its estimate of a 1.05 billion stg money marketshortage which it earlier revised up from 950 mln stg.    The central bank bought 31 mln stg of bank bills outrightin band two at 9-13/16 pct. REUTER
BANK OF SPAIN SUSPENDS ASSISTANCE, DRAINS FUNDS The Bank of Spain suspended its dailymoney market assistance and offered to drain funds with three-and seven-day repurchase agreements at 12-1/2 pct, money marketsources said.    The sources said the measures were a further attempt torein in money supply and were likely to force some institutionsto scramble for funds before the 10-day accounting period forreserve requirements closes on Monday.    The bank, which raised its rate for ordinary overnightassistance to 13-3/4 from 13-1/2 pct on Wednesday, opened itsspecial borrowing facility for overnight funds at 14-1/2 pct.    Money market sources said institutions in need of fundswere likely to have to return to the bank tomorrow for furtherassistance.    The bank rarely invites applications for ordinaryassistance on a Saturday and the sources said it was morelikely to open its special borrowing facility again. REUTER
JAPAN UNDER ATTACK OVER TRADE SURPLUS Japan's economic policies face fierceinternational attack as hopes fade of a substantial drop in itstrade surplus, international monetary sources said.    At a meeting this week in Paris, senior governmentofficials from major nations are considering an Organisationfor Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) staff reportthat forecasts a continuing large Japanese trade surplus, theysaid.    Though Japanese exports have become more expensive with theyen's sharp rise against the dollar, they still tend to surgewhen growth picks up, according to the OECD.    As a solution, the OECD staff has urged Japan to redirectits export-driven economy, boosting domestic demand and importsby adopting a more flexible fiscal policy, they said.    That recommendation echoes calls made recently at secretmeetings of the International Monetary Fund's executive board.    The monetary sources said Japan's policy was criticizedwhen the board met to consider the country's economy under theannual consultations it holds with each of its members.    The United States, which until recently has been reluctantto criticize Japan's fiscal stance, joined in the attack, hesaid.    The IMF staff has also cast doubt on the Japanesegovernment's forecast of 3.5 pct economic growth in the fiscalyear beginning April 1. Most independent forecasters, includingthe IMF, believe that growth in calendar 1987 will be belowthree pct, monetary sources said.    The Finance Ministry has been particularly sensitive tosuch criticism because it is already under mounting domesticpressure to boost an economy hard-hit by the yen's rise. Theyen's climb has lost exporters sales and profits in the hugeAmerican market.    Tokyo is also eager to avoid any suggestion that a furtheryen rise might be needed to cut its trade surplus, which lastyear amounted to a record 93 billion dlrs.    Japan cannot tolerate a further rise of the yen, ForeignMinister Tadashi Kuranari said recently. The yen closed heretoday at 151.53 to the dollar. Most Japanese politicians,including Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa, are clearly hopingthe yen will weaken, government officials said.    At a meeting in Paris last month, Britain, Canada, France,Japan, the United States and West Germany, agreed to cooperateto hold currencies at around current levels.    Officials said that wording represented a compromise.Miyazawa hopes the agreement will hold the yen stable for a fewmonths, before it weakens later in the year.    Japan wanted the Paris communique to imply a higher valuefor the dollar, perhaps by substituting the word "recent" for"current," while the United States wanted it to more clearlypoint to the dollar's weaker levels now, perhaps by use of theword "present," they said.    In the months leading up the February 22 agreement, thedollar dropped some 10 yen.    The officials also sought to discredit suggestions in themarket that recent U.S. Action to prevent the dollar fromrising above 1.87 marks pointed to a 153 to 155 yen ceiling forthe U.S. Currency.    Japan has also attacked OECD forecasts, which it says donot take account of the structural changes in the Japaneseeconomy that will be triggered by the strong yen.    Officials said there are already signs of that. More andmore companies have announced plans to move productionfacilities offshore to take advantage of cheaper costs abroad,they said. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GETS 186 MLN STG AFTERNOON HELP The Bank of England said it had giventhe money market a further 186 mln stg assistance in theafternoon session. This brings the Bank's total help so fartoday to 945 mln stg and compares with its revised forecast ofa one billion stg deficit.    The central bank bought bank bills outright comprising 51mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct and 135 mln stg in band two at9-13/16 pct. REUTER
BANK OF FINLAND TO TRADE IN BANKS' CERTIFICATES The Bank of Finland said it hasstarted dealings in banks' certificates of deposits (CDs) withimmediate effect and that it was prepared to issue its ownpaper to stimulate operations on the domestic money market.    Bank of Finland Governor Rolf Kullberg told a newsconference the Bank will also limit credits on the call moneymarket from March 30, 1987, by introducing a maximum creditamount and a penalty rate if banks exceed this ceiling.    "The recent introduction of three-month money and these newregulations are decreasing the role of the call money marketand the discount rate as monetary instruments," Kullberg said.    Bankers welcomed the central bank measures saying thesewere needed to accelerate the domestic money market. The Bankof Finland had never before been allowed to issue its own CDs,they said.    "The central bank for the first time has an instrument withwhich it really can influence the price of money in thiscountry," one banker said.    Under the new rules banks are limited to call money creditsto a maximum of 7.5 pct of the total of their equity capitaland cash reserves. A penalty rate of interest of 19 pct is nowintroduced if the limit is exceeded.    Director Sixten Korkman at the Bank of Finland's monetarydepartment said he expected the bank to pursue an active policyon the interbank market as an issuer of own-CDs.    "We are free to do it, so maybe on Monday we will issue thefirst, just to see how the system functions. Overall I think wewill issue at least a few times a week," Korkman told Reuters.    He said the bank was likely to aim at CDs with athree-month maturity at first as the market was best developedfor paper of that maturity.    The Bank of Finland introduced last December three-monthcredits and deposits at rates determined by the central bankand the commercial banks as a shift away from the traditionalovernight call money market.    Liquidity on the call credit market has fallen from aroundnine billion markka in early December to 167 mln last week,while three-month credits have risen to three to four billion.    On the interbank market there has been an increasing tradein banks' CDs, estimated to be some eight billion markka. Inaddition, commercial paper accounts for around five billionmarkka and Treasury Bills two billion. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve is expected tointervene in the government securities market to add temporaryreserves indirectly via 1.5-2.0 billion dlrs of customerrepurchase agreements, economists said.    Federal funds, which averaged 6.06 pct yesterday, opened at6-1/16 pct and remained there in early trading. Reuter
FED SAYS IT SETS 1.5 BILLION DLRS OF CUSTOMER REPURCHASE AG Cable and Wireless Plc <CAWL.L> isresisting attempts to merge two Japan-based telecommunicationsfirms in the hope that overseas political pressure will force achange in those plans, a company executive said.    Cable and Wireless, which holds a 20 pct stake in one ofthe two Japanese firms, is opposed to plans to reduce its shareto three pct in the merged firm, director of corporate strategyJonathan Solomon told reporters.    That plan, put forward by a senior member of the powerfulbusiness organization Keidanren with the tacit backing of thePost and Telecommunications Ministry, has caused a storm ofprotest from abroad that Japan is seeking to exclude foreignfirms from a meaningful position in the market.    Pacific Telesis Group <PAC.N> of the United States alsoholds a 20 pct stake in one of the newly formed consortia,<International Digital Communications Inc> (IDC).    Solomon said that both British Prime Minister MargaretThatcher and U.S. Secretary of State George Schultz havewritten to the Japanese government about the planned merger.    A key U.S. Senate committee, Commerce Secretary MalcolmBaldrige and Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter have alsoexpressed opposition to the merger, he said.    The Post and Telecomunications Ministry reiterated againthat it sees no need for two competitors to <Kokusai DenshinDenwa Co Ltd>, which holds a monopoly on international callsfrom Japan. The ministry has also suggested that foreignshareholders not hold managerial positions in the new firm.    In an attempt to hammer out an agreement, Solomon today metFumio Watanabe, the senior Keidanren officer trying to arrangethe merger. But the two sides remained deadlocked.    At stake is C and W's 400 mln dlr project to lay fibreoptic cables between Japan and Alaska, to form part of itsglobal network.    "C and W wants to start right away on the project, such asapplication and other procedures," said Watanabe, who is alsochairman of <Tokio Marine and Fire Insurance Inc>. The Japaneseside is saying that the decision on such a plan should be leftwith the new firm, after the merger.    "These decisions (on the merger) were made in considerationof Japan's economic conditions and legal systems. I told him weare not a colony or something," said Watanabe. Reuter
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange 1.5 billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.    Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-1/16 pct whenthe Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves tothe banking system. Reuter
LEADING ECONOMISTS CALL FOR MORE GROWTH ABROAD A panel of four leading economiststold a congressional hearing today that foreign economies willneed to expand to avoid recession as the U.S. trade deficitdeclines.    C. Fred Bergsten, a former senior Treasury Departmentofficial, and Robert Solomon of the Brookings Institution toldthe Senate Foreign Relations Committee, the major exportingcountries risk recession if they do not expand because U.S.demand for imports is expected to fall.    "They need to beef up domestic demand as their tradesurplus falls," or unemployment will keep growing, Bergstensaid.    Bergsten predicted the U.S. trade deficit, which hit 169billion dlrs last year, will fall 30-40 billion dlrs a year forthe next two years as a result of the dollar's 35-40 pctdecline since September 1985.    The government should intervene to push the dollar downfurther if the previous declines do not lead to an improvementin the trade picture, if the U.S. budget deficit is not reducedand if foreign expansion does not occur, he added.    Solomon said the dollar must fall further to compensate forthe huge interest payments required on U.S. foreign debt. TheParis agreement between the major industrialized countriesprovided only for a pause in its decline, he said.    Rimmer de Vries, senior vice president of Morgan GuarantyTrust Co., said the U.S. trade deficit problem is a problem oflagging growth in industrial economies, prolonged currencymisalignment, debt problems of the developing countries, andunbalanced growth in the Asian industrializing countries.    John Makin of the American Enterprise Institute, suggestedforeign tax cuts to increase demand and pick up the slack fromthe U.S. trade deficit fall. Reuter
G-10 FINANCE OFFICIALS DISCUSS DEBT, CURRENCIES Deputy Finance Ministers from the Groupof 10 leading western industrialised countries met here todiscuss the world debt crisis, trade imbalances and currencystability today following last month's Paris monetary accord,sources close to the talks said.    The officials met at the offices of the InternationalMonetary Fund (IMF) to discuss broad aspects of world monetarypolicy in preparation for the IMF's interim committee meetingin Washington in April.    The talks were the first high-level international review ofthe monetary situation since the accord last month reached bythe U.S., West Germany, France, Britain, Japan and Canada tostabilise world currency markets at around present levelsfollowing the 40 pct slide in the dollar since mid-1985.    Other countries represented at today's talks were Italy,which refused to attend last month's meeting on the groundsthat it was being excluded from the real discussions, theNetherlands, Belgium and Switzerland.    Many of the officials had met earlier today and yesterdaywithin the framework of the Organisation for EconomicCooperation and Development (OECD) to review the slow progressbeing made in cutting the record 170 billion dlr U.S. Tradedeficit and persuading West Germany and Japan to open theireconomies to more foreign imports. Reuter
NO ZIMBABWE DOLLAR DEVALUATION - CENTRAL BANK Zimbabwe's Reserve Bank, the nation'scentral bank, has denied the Zimbabwe dollar would be devalued.    Bank Governor Kombo Moyana told The Herald daily newspaper"unfortunate and completely unfounded speculation that adepreciation of the Zimbabwe dollar was about to occur" hadaggravated a serious foreign exchange shortage.    "During February and the early part of March this(speculation) caused importers to bring forward their paymentsand exporters to delay as long as possible the inwardremittance of export receipts, resulting in a significantslowdown in net foreign exchange inflows," he added. REUTER
NIGERIA CHANGES AUCTION RULES TO DEFEND THE NAIRA Nigeria's Central Bank has changed therules governing its foreign exchange auctions in what analystssee as a means of defending the naira currency, which hasdepreciated steadily.    The bank said in a statement that from April 2, banksbidding for foreign exchange would have to pay at the rate theyoffered and not, as presently, at the rate of the lowestsuccessful bid made at the auction.    This should discourage banks from bidding high to ensurethat they were successful while paying the lower "marginal" rate,analysts said.    "It should act as a brake because banks will know that ifthey bid high they will have to pay what they offered," aWestern diplomat commented.    The naira has depreciated against the dollar by 62 pctsince the auctions, known as the Second-Tier Foreign ExchangeMarket (SFEM), began last September 26.    At last week's session the Nigerian currency was fixed at4.0 to the dollar, the third fall in a row.    "They were clearly worried... And this is the logical way oftrying to stop the trend," the diplomat said.    The Central Bank also announced the auctions would befortnightly, not weekly, beginning on April 2.    It was not immediately clear whether next Thursday'sscheduled session would still take place, nor if the bank wasplanning to double the 50 mln dlrs which are normally on offerat each auction.    Demand for foreign exchange has consistently outstrippedsupply, encouraging banks to bid high and thus furtherweakening the naira.    If the normal weekly allocation is not doubled at thefortnightly session, high demand could undermine the objectiveof the new system, analysts said.    Although bidding banks will now pay what they offered, theofficial exchange rate for the naira applying to businesstransactions will continue to be the marginal rate -- thelowest successful bid.    SFEM is a central part of Nigeria's structural adjustmentprogram, which is considered to be the most ambitious economicrecovery plan in Black Africa.    The program involves setting a realistic exchange rate forthe naira, which was over-valued for many years, liberalisingimports, boosting agriculture, removing subsidies and reducinginefficient government participation in the economy.    The World Bank has played a prominent part in designingthis dramatic blue-print and in selling it to an oftensceptical public which fears inflation and lower livingstandards.    Ishrat Husain, the World Bank's representative in Nigeria,said yesterday he was satisfied both with the adjustmentprogram as a whole and the foreign exchange auctions.    "So far so good" he told a meeting of bankers in Lagos,adding that only members of Nigeria's import-dependent elitewould suffer hardship while the common man would benefit.    Fears that the program would encourage inflation wereincorrect, he said.    Bumper harvests had reduced rural inflation and urbanprices had already reflected the naira's black market valuebefore the currency was allowed to find its true level lastSeptember. REUTER
BAKER DENIES DOLLAR TARGET EXISTS U.S. Treasury Secretary James Bakeragain said the meeting of six major industrial nations in Parislast month did not establish a target exchange rate for thedollar.    Baker said in a television interview aired here yesterday:"We don't have a target for the dollar." He declined to commenton what might be a desired level for the dollar, saying: "Wereally don't talk about the dollar."    He said protectionism was becoming "extremely strong" in theU.S. In response to widening U.S. Trade deficits and importbarriers in other countries.    "The mood in the United States is extremely disturbing. It'sextremely strong," he said.    "As I've said before, we sort of see ourselves as engagedhere in a real struggle to preserve the world's free tradingsystem, because if the largest market in the world (the U.S.)goes protectionist we run the risk of moving down the same paththat the world did in the late 1930s," he said.    While relative exchange rates had a role to play indefusing the threat of protectionism, it alone did not offerany solution, he said.    "You must address this problem on the exchange rate side,but it cannot be solved on the exchange rate side alone. It'sfar more comprehensive and broad than that, and the solution ofit requires a comprehensive approach," Baker said in theinterview.    Baker said it would be necessary for other countries toadjust their currencies upwards, as well as remove theirbarriers to U.S. Imports. But he did not elaborate or name anycountries. REUTER
U.S. CREDIT MARKET OUTLOOK - MINI-REFUNDING A hefty slice of new U.S. Treasurysupply is not the most welcome prospect for a slumbering creditmarket, but at least this week's offerings should provide itwith some focus, economists said.    "Banks and mutual funds have cash that should be put towork, so the auctions should breathe some life into the market,"said economists at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Inc.    The Treasury will place a 25 billion dlr package oftwo-year, four-year and seven-year notes on the sales blockthis week.    The "mini-refunding," which will raise 9.27 billion dlrs innew cash, comprises 10 billion dlrs of two-year notes forauction on Tuesday, 7.75 billion dlrs of four-year notes onWednesday and 7.25 billion dlrs of seven-year notes onThursday. The market also faces the regular weekly three- andsix-month bill auction today, amounting to 12.8 billion dlrs.    The mini-refunding does not come at a particularlyauspicious time for the market. Bond prices have been driftingsideways in a narrow range against the backdrop of a cloudyU.S. Economic outlook, diminished chances of a change inFederal Reserve Board policy and a stable dollar.    Moreover, the bond market's inertia has comparedunfavourably with the rash of activity taking place inhigh-yield markets overseas, like the U.K., As well as in U.S.Equities.    But according to the Merrill Lynch economists, there aresigns the pall hanging over the U.S. Bond market is lifting abit.    "Customer activity has been light, but all on the buy-side,and there is a marked absence of selling," they said in a weeklyreport.    Philip Braverman of Irving Trust Securities Inc believesbanks will snap up the two- and four-year issues at this week'ssales.    "The banks are in need of investments that provide earnings.Though the yield spread to the cost of carrying thesematurities has been wider, it is still positive," he said in aweekly market review.    But economists agreed not even the auctions will generateenough impetus for a major move. This will only come once theoverseas markets have had their run.    "Based on last week's events, there is little to indicatethat the appetite for yield has begun to wane," said economistsat Salomon Brothers Inc.    Indeed, talk persisted last week that Japanese investorsare planning to re-weight their portfolios in favour of thehigher-yielding markets at the start of Japan's new fiscal yearon April 1.    And while traditionally the Japanese have not been bigbuyers of the shorter-dated issues on offer at this week's U.S.Auctions, such reports undermine market confidence.    Even actions by the British, Australian and Canadianmonetary authorities to curb the rise of their currenciesshould also enhance the attractiveness of their respective bondmarkets, the Salomon Brothers' economists said.    Meanwhile, ecomomic releases are unlikely to enliven theU.S. Market unless they deviate widely from expectations,economists said.    This week's economic calendar begins on Tuesday withFebruary durable goods orders. Economists expect a rebound fromJanuary's depressed levels.    Peter Greenbaum of Smith, Barney, Harris Upham and Co saidseveral areas, including transport equipment, should havebounced back. But a decline in military capital goods will captotal new orders. He forecasts a rise of two pct afterJanuary's 6.7 pct slump. Some other economists foresee a gainas large as five pct.    Friday's consumer price report for February is expected toshow an increase of about 0.3 pct after a 0.7 pct January gain.Economists said energy prices -- the driving force behind theJanuary rise -- rose more moderately last month, while foodprices declined.    Meanwhile, economists warned that the federal funds ratewill be subject to volatility in the weeks ahead due to theapproach of quarter-end and the mid-April tax date.    Some economists expect the Fed to execute a bill pass thisweek because its adding requirement increases sharply in thenew statement period beginning on Thursday.    Fed funds traded at 6-1/16 pct late Friday and are expectedto open near that level. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 800 MLN STG The Bank of England said it forecast ashortage of around 800 mln stg in the money market today.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturingin official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drainaround 1.18 billion stg while bankers balances below targetwill take out some 20 mln stg.    Partly offseting these outflows, a fall in note circulationand exchequer transactions will add some 355 and 55 mln stg tothe system respectively. REUTER
JAPAN ECONOMY SEEN GROWING 3.6 PCT IN 1987/88 Japan is expected to post a 3.6 pct risein real gross national product in 1987/88, higher than theofficial 3.5 pct target, a private economic institute said.    The Research Institute on National Economy said in a reportthe economy will start picking up in the April-June quarter,partly because of an improvement in earnings performance andcapital spending in manufacturing industries.    The institute assumed an average exchange rate in the yearstarting April 1 of 150 yen to the dollar. It predicted theBank of Japan will not change the official discount rate in theyear.    The institute forecast that Japan's exports will graduallyrise in the year in volume terms as the dollar's fall in thepast 18 months is likely to help prop up the U.S. Economy.    Japan's trade surplus is expected to narrow slightly to90.2 billion dlrs in 1987/88 ending March 31 from an estimated98 billion in the current fiscal year, it said. REUTER
BANK OF FRANCE SAYS NO MONEY MARKET TENDER TODAY The Bank of France will not hold a moneymarket intervention tender today, ruling out a further cut inits 7-3/4 pct intervention rate, central bank sources said.    At the tenders, depending on market conditions, the Bankinjects liquidity into the market by buying up first categorypaper. But market sources said that while the recent francperformance leaves room for a further quarter point cut in theintervention rate there was plenty of market liquidity.    The Bank cut its rate to 7-3/4 pct from eight pct on March9, the first change since January 2. Interest rates also fellthe same week in Britain, Belgium and Italy. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED DOWN The Bank of England said it revised downits forecast of the deficit in the money market today to 750mln stg from 800 mln. REUTER
BAKER DENIES DOLLAR TARGET EXISTS U.S. Treasury Secretary James Bakeragain said the meeting of six major industrial nations in Parislast month did not establish a target exchange rate for thedollar.    Baker said in a television interview aired here yesterday:"We don't have a target for the dollar." He declined to commenton what might be a desired level for the dollar, saying: "Wereally don't talk about the dollar."    He said protectionism was becoming "extremely strong" in theU.S. In response to widening U.S. Trade deficits and importbarriers in other countries.    "The mood in the United States is extremely disturbing. It'sextremely strong," he said.    "As I've said before, we sort of see ourselves as engagedhere in a real struggle to preserve the world's free tradingsystem, because if the largest market in the world (the U.S.)goes protectionist we run the risk of moving down the same paththat the world did in the late 1930s," he said.    While relative exchange rates had a role to play indefusing the threat of protectionism, it alone did not offerany solution, he said.    "You must address this problem on the exchange rate side,but it cannot be solved on the exchange rate side alone. It'sfar more comprehensive and broad than that, and the solution ofit requires a comprehensive approach," Baker said in theinterview.    Baker said it would be necessary for other countries toadjust their currencies upwards, as well as remove theirbarriers to U.S. Imports. But he did not elaborate or name anycountries. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 97 MLN STG ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it provided themoney market with help of 97 mln stg in the morning session.    This compares with the Bank's revised estimate of a 750 mlnstg shortage in the system today.    The central bank bought bank bills outright comprising 12mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct and 85 mln stg in band two at9-13/16 pct. REUTER
SWISS SIGHT DEPOSITS RISE 743.7 MLN FRANCS Sight deposits of commercial banks atthe Swiss National Bank rose 743.7  mln Swiss francs in thesecond 10 days of March to 8.40 billion, the National Banksaid.    Foreign exchange reserves fell 392.1 mln francs to 33.55billion.    Sight deposits are a major indicator of money marketliquidity in Switzerland. REUTER
NIGERIA CHANGES AUCTION RULES TO DEFEND NAIRA Nigeria's Central Bank has changed therules governing its foreign exchange auctions in what analystssee as a means of defending the naira currency, which hasdepreciated steadily.    The bank said in a statement that from April 2, banksbidding for foreign exchange would have to pay at the rate theyoffered and not, as presently, at the rate of the lowestsuccessful bid made at the auction.    This should discourage banks from bidding high to ensurethat they were successful while paying the lower "marginal" rate,analysts said.    The Central Bank also announced the auctions would befortnightly, not weekly, beginning on April 2. Reuter
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 485 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it had giventhe money market a further 485 mln stg assistance in theafternoon session. This takes the Bank's total help so fartoday to 582 mln stg and compares with its forecast of a 750mln stg shortage in the system today.    The central bank bought bank bills outright comprising 345mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct and 75 mln stg in band two at9-3/16 pct. It also purchased 65 mln stg of treasury bills inband one at 9-7/8 pct. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve is expected tointervene in the government securities market to add temporaryreserves indirectly via 1.5 to 2.5 billion dlrs of customerrepurchase agreements, economists said.    They said that while the Fed has only a moderate add needover the next few days, it will probably intervene in anattempt to counteract an elevated federal funds rate.    Fed funds, which averaged 6.09 pct on Friday, opened at6-3/16 pct and remained at that level in early trading. Reuter
U.S. TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS CURRENCIES WITHIN RANGES THAT BETTER REFLECT FUND Greece will hold a buying tender onApril 8, for reply by April 10, for 40,000 tonnes of whitesugar from EC member countries, for delivery in four equaltranches in May, June, July and August, traders said. Reuter
CURRENCIES BETTER REFLECT FUNDAMENTALS - BAKER Treasury Secertary James Baker saidcurrencies were now within ranges that better reflectedeconomic fundamentals.    In a speech to the annual meeting of the Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank, he said, "Excchange have moved into rangesthat better reflect economic fundamentals."    He noted that in particular that dollar has fallen from itshigh point in early 1985 helping to moderate protectionistpressures in the U.S. Reuter
CHICAGO FUTURES LEADER SAYS MARKETS CAN ADAPT Foreign currency futuresmarkets would not be harmed if the leading industrial countriesagreed to restrict currency movements to within a narrow band,said Leo Melamed, chairman of the Chicago MercantileExchange's, CME, executive committee.    "The target zone would not affect our market I think atall.... A 10 pct range in the Deutsche mark gives us a healthymarket," Melamed told Reuters in an interview.    "We were willing to live in the old Smithsonian era with afour pct shift," he said, referring to permitted currencyfluctuations in the early 1970s. "One thing you can adjust is tomake each contract a larger value."    As chairman of the CME in 1969-71, Melamed was instrumentalin the development of currency futures, which now are crucialto the Chicago exchange.    Melamed said capital flows -- which he estimated canapproach 200 billion dlrs a day -- would overwhelm efforts bygovernments to control currency fluctuations.    "They can do it for a day, in terms of intervention, anhour, a week maybe, but not over a period of time. So it'sunrealistic and it doesn't work and it's unnecessary."    The CME's top policymaker also said a decision by theexchange to advance the quarterly settlement time of its stockindex futures contract to the morning from the afternoon wouldhelp eliminate dramatic price gyrations in futures and equitymarkets on so-called "triple-witching" day.    "We think that the settlement in the morning will have asalutary effect so that over a longer period of time I thinkthis issue (triple witching) will go away because of the changein the structure as of next June," when the move is scheduled togo into effect, he said.    Melamed said proposed changes in floor practices by tradersof the popular Standard and Poor's 500 stock index future wouldaddress complaints of trading abuses and stimulate trading.    Two weeks ago, the CME board of directors proposed barringbrokers on the top step of the pit from trading for their ownaccount. The board also proposed requiring brokers engaged indual trading elsewhere in the pit to record personal trades tothe nearest minute and curbing trading between broker groups.    The changes "will in time have an extremely positive effecton the marketplace. That's going to prove very, veryinstrumental in increasing volume over time," he said,predicting the increase would come within a year.    Melamed, also chairman of Dellsher Investment Co Inc, saidthe CME last week withdrew a proposal to put a 12-point limiton the S and P 500 index's daily price movement when theCommodity Futures Trading Commission told the exchange it couldnot be a temporary program.    The CME also received "many negative comments, many morethan we anticipated," Melamed conceded. Many futures commissionmerchants predicted sell orders would accelerate in the eventthe price approached the bottom limit. Reuter
U.K. PROFITTED FROM AUTUMN INTERVENTION - LAWSON Britain has reaped profits by using astronger pound to buy back dollars used by the government lastautumn to support sterling during a currency crisis, Chancellorof the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said.    He said in a parliamentary debate, "I can now tell the House(of Commons) that the dollars that were sold from the reservesin September and October (1986) have subsequently all beenrepurchased - at a profit of some tens of millions of pounds."    Hindsight had proved him right to resist market pressuresthen for a two percentage point interest rate rise, he said.The increase in base rates was instead limited then to onepoint.    During a debate on the 1987/88 British budget which Lawsonunveiled last week, he said that "during the period of foreignexchange market turbulence which followed the somewhatinconclusive Group of Five and Group of Seven meetings at theend of September, I authorised the Bank of England to interveneunusually heavily in order to buy breathing space that wouldenable me to confine the interest rate rise to one pct ratherthan the two pct the market was then pressing for."    He said that that one percentage point increase, effectedin October 1986, had been reversed by this month's two halfpoint cuts in banks' base lending rates. They are now at 10pct.    Treasury figures show that the underlying change in Britishreserves - seen as a guide to possible Bank of Englandintervention on foreign exchange markets - suggest that theauthorities sold around 1.0 billion dlrs during September andOctober 1986, government sources said. Reuter
Dollar hits record low of 149.78 yen - Tokyo British manufacturers expect output togrow rapidly in the four coming months, a Confederation ofBritish Industry (CBI) survey shows.    The CBI's monthly trends survey for March shows that 43 pctof the 1,685 polled U.K. Firms expect to raise output in thenext four months. Only nine pct expect output to fall while 47pct said production would likely remain unchanged.    The CBI said the positive balance between firms expectingproduction to rise and those forecasting a fall, at 34 pct, wasthe highest such figure recorded since 1977.    In the CBI's February survey, 37 pct of companies expecteda rise in output while 54 pct forecast production would remainat present levels and eight pct expected production to drop.    The survey also showed that 23 pct of the polled companiesconsider current order books to be above normal while 58 pctview them as normal and only 19 pct regard them as belownormal.    This was the highest positive balance since the questionwas first asked more than 10 years ago, the CBI said.    In February, the figures were 24 pct, 22 pct and 54 pctrespectively.    Companies also rated their export possibilities higher. Ofall polled companies, 23 pct rated their export order books tobe above normal and 53 pct described them as normal while only23 pct believed export orders were below normal levels.    In February, 25 pct thought their export books were belownormal and 50 pct believed them to be about normal. At 23 pct,the proportion of companies rating their export books abovenormal was unchanged between February and March.    On prices, the survey showed that 62 pct of companiesexpect average prices at which domestic orders are booked willremain unchanged in the coming four months, up from 57 pct inFebruary.    From 38 pct in February, only 31 pct of firms now expectprices to rise before July. Six pct forecast prices will fall,against four pct a month earlier.    Commenting on the survey, CBI economic situation committeechairman David Wigglesworth said sterling's more competitivelevel against many European currencies had improved exports.    "But interest rates are still much higher than in ourcompetitor countries and British manufacturers will still haveto work hard to win new business both in overseas markets andin the substitution of British-made goods for imports here athome," he said. REUTER
TOKYO - Bank of Japan buys small amount of dollars, deal Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said thetime has come for major industrialised nations to take actionon exchange rates in line with their agreement last month inParis.    In Paris, Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And WestGermany agreed to coooperate to hold currency rates aroundtheir then current levels.    Miyazawa would not say what specific measures major nationswould take, but told reporters the measures had been discussedin Paris. The dollar fell to a record low against the yen thismorning, piercing the 150 yen barrier. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN RE-ENTERS MARKET AND STEPS UP DOLLAR BUYING, DEA The Bank of Japan stepped up its dollarbuying as it re-entered the market after the midday Tokyo lunchbreak, dealers said.    They said the bank seemed more determined to support thedollar than it did this morning.    Several dealers said the central bank intervened thisafternoon when the dollar stood around 149 yen.    One said it purchased 150 to 200 mln dlrs in the half-hoursince the market re-opened after its lunchtime closure. Anothersaid the bank still has buying orders in the market. REUTER
TAIWAN COMPLAINS ABOUT SIZE OF RESERVES Taiwan's foreign exchange reserves,swollen by strong trade surpluses to a record 53 billion U.S.Dlrs, are becoming a problem, government officials said.    Official figures show the latest level compares with theprevious record of 51 billion dlrs on March 4 and about 26billion in late March 1986.    Central bank Governor Chang Chi-cheng told reporters theincrease in reserves was the result of heavy intervention bythe bank on the local interbank market. It bought nearly twobillion U.S. Dlrs between March 5 and 23, he said.    Wang Chao-ming, vice chairman of the government's Councilfor Economic Planning and Development, told Reuters the risingreserves were "a big headache for Taiwan."    He said the government expects heavier pressure from theU.S., Where protectionist bills are being proposed againstnations such as Taiwan and Japan with large trade surpluseswith the U.S.    Wang said the government would launch new measures withinthe next two months to further reduce import tariffs and openthe market wider to foreign products, especially those from theU.S.    Wang said the measures aim at helping reduce Taiwan's tradesurplus, which rose to 2.73 billion U.S. Dlrs in the first twomonths of 1987 from 2.02 billion a year earlier. Nearly 90 pctof the surplus was with the U.S.    Vice Economic Minister Wang Chien-shien agreed with Wang'sremarks and said efforts to avert U.S. Protectionism wererunning out of time. "We must do it quickly or face retaliationfrom Washington," he said.    He said the measures would include removal of tradebarriers on insurance and inland services for U.S. Companies.    Chang Chi-cheng said the central bank could not stop buyingU.S. Dollars because of heavy sales by local exporters who fearthe strong local dollar will cause them exchange losses.    He said the bank is studying revision of the foreignexchange rules in hope of further reducing currency controls,but declined to give details.    The Taiwan dollar has risen about 15 pct against the U.S.Dollar since September 1985. It opened at 34.38 to the U.S.Dollar today and is expected to rise further to 33 in June andto 32 by end-year, some foreign bankers said. REUTER
Sumita says Bank of Japan will intervene if n World Bank president Barber Conablepledged the Bank's support to help Indonesia adjust to lowerworld oil prices, but said further deregulation of itsprotected economy was needed.    Speaking to reporters after talks with President Suharto,he said he expected Jakarta to do more to liberalise theeconomy and deregulate trade policy.    Indonesia, hurt by the fall in oil prices last year whichcut the value of its crude exports in half, is the ThirdWorld's sixth largest debtor. It has received 10.7 billion dlrsfrom the World Bank in the past 20 years.    Conable said the World Bank, which granted Indonesia a 300mln dlr loan last month to help its balance of payments, wasprepared to back Jakarta in taking the right steps to adjust tolower oil and primary commodity prices.    "We are prepared to support those steps which we believe areconsistent with the development of the Indonesian economy," hesaid.    He said Jakarta's willingness to move quickly after lastyear's collapse in oil price saved Indonesia from some of thedifficulties now faced by other countries.    Indonesia devalued its currency by 31 pct against thedollar in September to avoid a balance of payments crisis, andhas announced a series of measures since May intended tostimulate exports, encourage foreign investment and revitalisethe economy.    However, key monopolies in areas like steel and plasticsand high tariff barriers remain in place.    Conable arrived in Indonesia on Saturday and has since met14 Indonesian cabinet ministers to review the country'sborrowing needs and the impact of falling oil prices on thecountry. REUTER
SUMITA SAYS BANK WILL INTERVENE IF NECESSARY Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumitasaid in a statement the central bank will intervene in foreignexchange markets to stabilise exchange rates if necessary inclose cooperation with other major industrial nations.    Sumita said the Bank will take adequate measures includingmarket intervention, if necessary, in line with the February 22Paris agreement by six major industrial nations.    Canada, Britain, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germanyagreed to cooperate in stabilising exchange rates aroundcurrent levels. Sumita's statement was issued after the dollarslipped below 150 yen to hit a record low of 148.40.    "It is inevitable that exchange rates fluctuate under thesystem of floating rates," Sumita said.    The fact the dollar plunged below 150 yen does not meananything significant under the floating system, he said.    The six nations agreed in Paris exchange rates prevailingthen were broadly consistent with underlying economicfundamentals and further substantial rate shifts could damagegrowth and adjustment prospects in their countries, the Parisstatement said. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 300 MLN STG The Bank of England said it forecast ashortage of around 300 mln stg in the money market today.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturingin official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drainsome 338 mln stg while bankers' balances below target will takeout around 25 mln stg.    Partly offsetting these outflows, a fall in notecirculation and exchequer transactions will add some 45 mln stgand 25 mln stg to the system respectively. REUTER
MIYAZAWA SAYS U.S. LIKELY TO INTERVENE Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa toldParliament's Lower House Finance Committee that the U.S. Isexpected to intervene in the foreign exchange market tostabilise exchange rates, political sources said.    Asked if the U.S. Federal Reserve Board agreed in Parislast month to intervene to stabilise exchange rates, Miyazawasaid yes, the sources said.    Miyazawa was also quoted as saying that he is scepticalabout the effectiveness of currency reference ranges even ifmajor nations agree on such an idea as it is extremelydifficult to set such ranges. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN STEPS UP DOLLAR BUYING The Bank of Japan stepped up its dollarbuying as it re-entered the market after the midday Tokyo lunchbreak, dealers said.    They said the bank seemed more determined to support thedollar than it did this morning.    Several dealers said the central bank intervened thisafternoon when the dollar stood around 149 yen.    One said it purchased 150 to 200 mln dlrs in the half-hoursince the market re-opened after its lunchtime closure. Anothersaid the bank still has buying orders in the market. REUTER
SUMITA SAYS BANK WILL INTERVENE IF NECESSARY Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumitasaid in a statement the central bank will intervene in foreignexchange markets to stabilise exchange rates if necessary inclose cooperation with other major industrial nations.    Sumita said the Bank will take adequate measures includingmarket intervention, if necessary, in line with the February 22Paris agreement by six major industrial nations.    Canada, Britain, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germanyagreed to cooperate in stabilising exchange rates aroundcurrent levels. Sumita's statement was issued after the dollarslipped below 150 yen to hit a record low of 148.40.    "It is inevitable that exchange rates fluctuate under thesystem of floating rates," Sumita said.    The fact the dollar plunged below 150 yen does not meananything significant under the floating system, he said.    The six nations agreed in Paris exchange rates prevailingthen were broadly consistent with underlying economicfundamentals and further substantial rate shifts could damagegrowth and adjustment prospects in their countries, the Parisstatement said. REUTER
DOUBTS ABOUT ACCORD SEEN WEAKENING DOLLAR FURTHER The dollar is expected to decline furtherin coming days as scepticism mounts about the effectiveness oflast month's Paris accord to stabilise currency exchange rates,senior foreign exchange dealers said.    Following its fall today to a record 148.40 yen, dealerssaid they expect the dollar to establish a new trading range of147 to 150 yen before the market again tries to push it down.Behind the latest dollar fall lies the belief that last month'saccord was no longer enough to stop operators pushing thedollar down, the dealers said.    "The recent remark by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Bakerthat the Paris accord did not set any target ranges for majorcurrencies has cast a shadow on the agreement," said KojiKidokoro, general manager of Mitsui Bank Ltd's treasurydivision.    He said the market interpreted this as indicating the U.S.Would favour a weaker dollar and it had little intention ofintervening to support the currency.    "This eliminated the widespread market caution againstpossible joint central bank intervention," Kidokoro said.    Dealers said the dollar had gathered renewed downwardmomentum and that Bank of Japan intervention alone could hardlycontain a further slide in the currency.    They said the central bank bought between one to 1.5billion dlrs today, including direct purchases through brokers,and yesterday it might have bought a small amount of dollarsthrough the U.S. Central bank in New York.    Most dealers said they doubted the U.S. Federal Reservewould intervene on its own account to support the dollar, butsome said this might occur if the dollar fell much below 148yen.    "If the dollar drops to that low level, it could reduce theflow of foreign capital into U.S. Securities, which theAmericans don't want," said Haruya Uehara, chief money marketmanager of Mitsubishi Trust and Banking Corp.    He said the dollar may return to around 152 yen next monthwhen corporations reduce their dollar sales after they closetheir books for the 1986/87 business year ending on March 31.    But dealers said the longer-term outlook for the dollarremained bearish. This was due to the lacklustre performance ofthe U.S. Economy, the continuing U.S. Trade deficit andJapanese delays in announcing an economic stimulation package.    "The Americans are getting frustrated at Japan's inertia instimulating its economy," said Hirozumi Tanaka, assistantgeneral manager of Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd's internationaltreasury division.    In the Paris currency accord Japan promised a package ofeconomic measures, after the fiscal 1987 budget was passed, toboost domestic demand, increase imports, and thus reduce itstrade surplus. The package was expected in April, but debate onthe budget has been delayed by an opposition boycott ofparliamentary business over the proposed introduction of asales tax.    In the circumstances the government had only a slim chanceof producing a meaningful economic package in the near future,Dai-Ichi Kangyo's Tanaka said.    Dealers said if steps are not taken to stimulate theJapanese economy protectionist sentiment in the U.S. Congresswould grow and put more downward pressure on the dollar. REUTER
MAJOR NATIONS MUST ACT ON CURRENCIES - MIYAZAWA Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said thetime has come for major industrialised nations to take actionon exchange rates in line with their agreement last month inParis.    In Paris, Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And WestGermany agreed to coooperate to hold currency rates aroundtheir then current levels.    Miyazawa would not say what specific measures major nationswould take, but told reporters the measures had been discussedin Paris. The dollar fell to a record low against the yen thismorning, piercing the 150 yen barrier.    Asked if major nations were now negotiating on whatmeasures to take, Miyazawa said they were not as measures hadalready been agreed in Paris. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 115 MLN STG ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it had providedthe money market with 115 mln stg assistance in the morningsession. This compares with the Bank's forecast of a 300 mlnstg shortage in the system today.    The central bank bought bills outright in band two at9-13/16 pct comprising 73 mln stg bank bills and 42 mln stglocal authority bills. REUTER
DOLLAR DROP SEEN AS TEST OF PARIS AGREEMENT The sharp drop in the value of thedollar against the yen and the mark is the first serious testof last month's Group of Five (G-5) plus Canada agreement tostabilise currencies, dealers and bank economists said.    "The dollar will be pushed down until there is coordinatedcentral bank intervention," one dealer for a German bank said,echoing widepread sentiment in the market.    But opinion was divided on whether the united front forgedin Paris still exists. Some dealers said there were growingsigns the United States wanted the dollar to fall further.    Despite repeated Bank of Japan intervention, the dollarplunged to a post-war low in Tokyo today. It was quoted as lowas 148.40 yen in the Far East and dealers here said theyexpected the U.S. Currency to decline further.    "The dollar is now firmly within a broad 140 to 150 yenrange," Chase Bank AG's senior dealer Eckhart Hager said.    Others said there were technical reasons for the sharpdollar drop. "Window-dressing" operations by some Japanesecompanies who were selling dollars and buying yen before theend of the Japanese fiscal year on March 31 were underminingthe U.S. Currency.    Dealers said main reason for the sell-off was nottechnical. U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker's comment theParis accord did not have fixed dollar targets was seen as arenewed attempt by the U.S. Administration to talk the dollardown.    "Suddenly, support levels which had existed for fear ofcentral bank intervention disappeared," one dealer said.    The Bank of Japan was believed to have bought some 1.5billion dlrs, and this with comments by Japanese officialsindicated Tokyo was unhappy about the plunge, dealers said.Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita threatened central bankintervention if necessary.    Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said today thetime had come for the six nations who agreed in Paris lastmonth to stabilise currencies - Japan, Britain, Canada, France,the U.S. And West Germany - to take action in line with thepact.    But the Bundesbank and other European central banks werenot detected in the open market during the European morning.Opinion here was divided on when the Bundesbank would act.    While some said the West German central bank would supportthe dollar once it fell below 1.80 marks, others said theBundesbank would only intervene after a fall below 1.75 marksor if the decline accelerated.    The Bundesbank last intervened on January 27, when thedollar threatened to fall below 1.81 marks.    "The Japanese seem to be on their own at the moment," onedealer said. Others said cooperation between central banks andgovernments was easier said than done.    Some said Baker's remarks and U.S. Trade RepresentativeClayton Yeutter's warning that the U.S. And Japan were on theverge of a serious trade conflict showed there was a rift.    "It's hard to tell whether the G-6 agreement still stands," adealer said. Another added, "If the Americans do not get whatthey want, they will push the dollar down, regardless of G-6."    Citibank AG also cast doubt on the chances of success forthe Paris agreement in its latest investment letter.    "It is hard to see that Japan and Germany are willing orable to loosen fiscal policy sufficiently to offset thenecessary U.S. Fiscal contraction," Citibank said.    It added, "Markets should therefore be aware that 1.80 marksis not the lower limit for the dollar -- a rate of 1.70 marksor even less is expected this year."    And London Broker Hoare Govett said in its March 1987economic report, "We are looking for a further, more gradual,fall, possibly to 1.60 marks by the end of the year."    But opinion about whether the Paris accord was still inforce was not universal. Some dealers said not too much shouldbe read into Baker's and Yeutter's comments.    "There is no reason to believe the Paris pact has brokendown," a senior dealer said. REUTER
SPAIN RAISES CALL MONEY RATES ON HIGHER DEMAND The Bank of Spain raised overnight callmoney rates by 1/4 to 14 pct on demand for 746 billion pesetasin today's auction, which a bank spokesman termed "heavy."    Rates stood at 12.1 pct at the start of the year and havebeen increased to drain liquidity on rising demands for funds,the spokesman said.    He said in reply to Reuters inquiries that rates could risefurther if money supply growth rose above this year's eight pcttarget for M-4, defined as liquid assets in public hands.    Money supply rose at an annualised rate of 16.7 pct lastmonth against 8.1 pct in January. Growth was 11.4 pct in 1986.    A leading Spanish broker said the central bank was applyinga more restrictive policy to keep the lid on inflation.    The consumer price index rose 8.3 pct last year.    "Money supply control is the government's chief weaponagainst inflation," he said. "The problem is higher rates areattracting liquidity from abroad."    He said this was why the central bank enacted specificmeasures to control the inflow of foreign capital. The Bank ofSpain earlier this month imposed a 19 pct reserve requirementon new convertible peseta funds held by banks to curbshort-term speculative capital from abroad. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 104 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it provided themoney market with assistance of 104 mln stg in the afternoonsession.    This takes the bank's total help so far today to 219 mlnstg and compares with its estimate of a 300 mln stg shortage.    The central bank bought outright 104 mln stg in bank billsin band two at 9-13/16 pct. REUTER
N.Y. DEALERS BELIEVE FED INTERVENED TO BUY DLRS The Federal Reserve appears to haveintervened in the U.S. foreign exchange market to buy dollarsagainst yen this morning, currency dealers said.    They said the intervention occurred near the dollar's earlylow of 148.50 yen and the U.S. currency subsequently firmed to149.05/15. It closed at 150.00/05 on Monday.    Dealers were uncertain of the amount involved and whetherthe Fed's purchases were for its own account or for a customer.But there was speculation that it may have been done inconjunction with the Bank of Japan. Tokyo dealers said theJapanese central bank bought dollars in Tokyo earlier today. Reuter
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 10 MLN STG LATE ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it provided themoney market with late help of about 10 mln stg.    This takes the bank's total help today to some 229 mln stgand compares with its forecast of a 300 mln stg shortage. REUTER
SUDAN REJECTS IMF DEMAND FOR DEVALUATION Sudan has rejected a demand by theInternational Monetary Fund for a currency devaluation becausesuch a move would have a negative impact on its economy, theofficial Sudan News Agency (SUNA) reported.    Finance Minister Beshir Omer, quoted by SUNA, said hisgovernment also rejected an IMF demand to lift state subsidieson basic consumer goods.    SUNA, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corporation,said Omer made the remarks after a meeting in Khartoumyesterday with IMF envoy Abdel-Shakour Shaalan.    Sudan, burdened by a foreign debt of 10.6 billion dlrs, issome 500 mln dlrs in arrears to the IMF, which declared itineligible for fresh loans in February last year.    In February 1985, Sudan announced a 48 pct devaluation ofits pound against the dollar, adjusting the official exchangerate to 2.5 pounds to the U.S. Currency.    Since then, it has resisted pressure from main creditorsfor more currency adjustments, arguing that past devaluationshad failed to boost exports but raised local consumer prices.Sudan also has an incentive rate of four pounds to the dollarfor foreign visitors and remittances by expatriate workers.    Dealers in Khartoum's thriving black market said the dollarwas sold at 5.5 pounds today.    With stringent import regulations and the governmentincreasingly short of foreign currency, black market dollarsare used to finance smuggled imports from neighbouringcountries, mainly Egypt, Kenya, Ethiopia and Zaire.    Western diplomats in Khartoum say the meetings between IMFand Sudanese government officials do not amount to formaltalks, but rather an effort by the IMF to monitor Sudan'seconomic performance.    The diplomats said Sudan hoped a planned four-year economicrecovery program would be acceptable to the IMF as a seriousattempt to tackle the country's economic troubles and persuadeits Gulf Arab creditors to pay the IMF arrears.    This, they said, could provide Sudan with a clean bill ofhealth from the IMF that it could take to Western governmentcreditors, grouped informally in the so-called Paris Club, toreschedule debt payments.    Twenty-three pct of Sudan's total foreign debt is owed tomembers of the Paris Club, the diplomats said.    Sudan's Finance Minister said last month the country's IMFrepresentative had told him the fund's executive board was "verypleased with the 18.5 mln dlrs arrears we have paid in the pastcouple of months."    The representative, Omer Said, said IMF Managing DirectorMichel Camdessus said he would ask Saudi Arabia, to which Sudanowes about 1.4 billion dlrs, to help Khartoum to pay more.    Sudan has an annual debt liability of nearly 900 mln dlrsbut set aside only some 200 mln dlrs to service debts in thefiscal year ending next June 30. REUTER
FED GOVERNOR SUPPORTS COMMODITY PRICE GUIDE Robert Heller, a member of the Boardof Governors of the Federal Reserve System, said commodityprices could form a useful guide for setting domestic andinternational monetary policy.    Speaking to the conservative Heritage Foundation, Hellersaid, "A broadly based commodity price index may be worthexploring" as a guide to monetary policy.    "In times of rising commodity prices, monetary policy mightbe tightened and in times of falling commodity prices, monetarypolicy might be eased," he said.    Commodities are also standardized to avoid measurementproblems and occur at the beginning of production so as to give"early warning" signs of wholesale and retail changes.    "There is no need to react to every small fluctuation incommodity prices or to do so on a daily basis," Heller said in aprepared text.    "But if commodity prices exhibit a broad trend, a policyaction might be considered," he said.    Heller said using a broad-based commodity price index as anindicator for monetary policy would also contribute tostabilized currency exchange rates.    Commodity prices are generally uniform worldwide and pricesfor them are more consistent than for other types of goods, hesaid.    He said other beneficial effects would be to stabilizeexport commodity prices for developing countries by using acommodity basket as a guidepost for monetary policy. Reuter
STERLING OUTLOOK CLOUDED BY TEST OF PARIS ACCORD The move by foreign exchange markets totest the strength of the Paris currency accord has thrown intoquestion the near-term outlook for sterling, until recently oneof the main beneficiaries of the agreement, analysts said.    Since the six-nation accord last month, sterling has risensharply, adding almost five pct on its trade-weighted index.    While the accord effectively stifled dollar/yen anddollar/mark movements, the markets turned their attention tosterling as foreign investors rushed to take advantage ofrelatively high U.K. Interest rates.    But analysts say the pound has been sidelined by the firsttentative test of the Paris accord seen yesterday.    The market now looks set sooner or later to push the dollardown further in a test of the willingness of central banks tointervene. Analysts say if the banks do not interveneeffectively, the Paris accord could collapse.    "On balance, sterling would be a net sufferer if G-6collapses," Phillips and Drew analyst Stephen Lewis said.    He said sterling would lose out as markets turned theirattention to capital movements whereas previously they had beenrestricted to looking only at the interest yield on currencies.    However, although most analysts and foreign exchangedealers were forecasting a brief period of consolidation oreven retracement for sterling, none were expecting a very sharpdrop in the U.K. Currency.    Sterling remained supported by optimism on the U.K.Political and economic outlook, firmer oil prices andrelatively high interest rates, they said.    Bullish sentiment on the U.K. Economic outlook has beenrunning especially high after last week's budget, seen aspopular both with the markets and with British voters.    Sterling was also supported by signs of a weakening in theWest German and Japanese economies, where growth for 1987 istrailing behind the three pct forecast for the U.K.    Recent opinion polls showing Britain's ruling conservativeparty ahead of opposition parties in popularity have alsosupported the pound.    In addition, sterling has so far shrugged off twohalf-point cuts in U.K. Bank base lending rates in less thantwo weeks. A further half-point cut, widely expected in thenext week or so, has already been largely discounted.    U.K. Base rates, now running at 10 pct, are stillrelatively high compared to other western countries, andanalysts said a further base rate cut to 9-1/2 pct was unlikelyto affect sterling.    Sterling today appeared resilient to the dollar's decline,dropping only slightly on a cross-rate basis.    Worries about renewed turbulence in the foreign exchangemarkets, however, were reflected in the U.K. Government bond(gilt) market, where prices dropped by up to 5/16 point.    Until now foreign investor interest in the gilt market hasbeen one of the major reasons behind the rise in sterling.    Dealers said they expected the pound to hold quietly steadyfor the next few days while the market awaits furtherdevelopments on the dollar and this Thursday's U.K. Currentaccount figures for February.    Market forecasts are for a deficit of around 250 mln stgafter January's small surplus. REUTER
FED'S HELLER URGES JAPANESE TO BUY U.S. GOODS A member of the Federal ReserveBoard, Robert Heller, said he wanted to see stronger Japanesedemand for American goods.    "What I was advocating here was more Japanese purchases ofAmerican goods," Heller said in response to a question about thedollar's weakness in currency markets.    He told a Heritage Foundation forum, "I'd be very happy tosee that."    In his formal remarks, Heller said he supported the idea ofusing commodity prices as an indicator for monetary policy.    Asked if he would raise the issue at the next Federal OpenMarket Committee meeting, he said, "Even at previous meetingscommodity prices were raised."    He added, "I would not expect future meetings to bedifferent from past meetings in that respect." Reuter
BALDRIGE SUPPORTS NIC TALKS ON CURRENCIES Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrigesaid he supported efforts to persuade newly-industrializedcountries (NICS) to revalue currencies that are tied to thedollar in order to help the United States cut its massive tradedeficit.    "We do need to do something with those currencies or wewill be substituting Japanese products for Taiwanese products,"or those of other nations with currencies tied to the dollar,Baldrige told a House banking subcommittee.    The U.S. dollar has declined in value against the Yen andEuropean currencies, but has changed very little against thecurrencies of some developing countries such as South Korea andTaiwan because they are linked to the value of the dollar.    As a result, efforts to reduce the value of the dollar overthe past year and a half have done little to improve the tradedeficits with those countries.    Baldrige told a House Banking subcommittee that theTreasury Department was attempting to persuade those countriesto reach agreement with the United States on exchange rates. Reuter
DOLLAR EXPECTED TO FALL DESPITE INTERVENTION Central bank intervention in theforeign exchange markets succeeded in staunching the dollar'slosses today, but senior dealers here believe the U.S. currencyis headed for a further retreat.    Although the intervention was widespread, dealers perceivethat the six major industrial nations have differing levels ofcommitment to their recent accord to stabilize currencies.    Moreover, hard economic realities hold greater sway overthe currency market than central bank intervention and theseargue for a further dollar decline, dealers said.    "The market can be bigger than the central banks. Andeconomic fundamentals will always come to the fore," said adealer at one major U.S. bank.    As the dollar dropped to post-World War II lows against theyen today foreign exchange traders said the Bank of Japan,Federal Reserve Board and Bank of England intervened in themarkets on behalf of the U.S. currency.    Reports of the authorities' actions helped the dollarrecover to about 149.45 yen in New York this afternoon fromthe post-war low of 148.20 yen in the Far East. But it stillfailed to regain Monday's U.S. closing level of 150.00/05 yen.    Tokyo dealers said the Bank of Japan bought one to 1.5billion dlrs in Tokyo today and may also have purchased dollarsyesterday in the U.S. via the Federal Reserve.    Meanwhile, there were strong rumors in New York that theFed also bought a modest amount of dollars around 148.50 yentoday. Talk also circulated that the Bank of England purchaseda small amount of dollars for yen.    The Fed's last confirmed intervention was on January 28when it bought 50 mln dlrs in coordination with the Bank ofJapan. But on March 11 the Fed also was rumored to havesignalled displeasure with a dollar surge above 1.87 marks.    The authorities' actions appeared to back up the February22 Paris pact between the U.S., Japan, West Germany, Britain,France and Canada under which the nations agreed to cooperateto foster exchange rate stability around prevailing levels.    But foreign exchange dealers were not overly impressed bythe authorities' intervention which they said can only softenextreme moves in the market.    For one thing, some dealers believed that the Fed'spurchases were done on behalf of the Bank of Japan rather thanfor the U.S. central bank's own account, suggesting a rather  watered-down American commitment to the currency accord.    The Bank of England's action also was thought to becompleted on behalf of the Japanese central bank, reinforcingthe market's view that Japan is the most resolute of the sixnations in its support of the currency pact.    "No-one doubts the Bank of Japan is serious. But the othertwo central banks seem to be making more token gestures thananything else," said Chris Bourdain of BankAmerica Corp.    "I'm not convinced the intervention was concerted," saidEarl Johnson of Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago. "It's a yen problem more than anything else."    Some dealers said a rising wave of trade protectionistsentiment in the U.S. limits the extent to which the Americanauthorities can endorse a stronger dollar against the yen.    "The dollar's break below the key 150 yen level ties theTreasury's hands behind its back. The U.S. cannot intervene onits own account because of the strength of protectionism here,"said Albert Soria of Swiss Bank Corp.    Such comments reflect the view that the currency marketsare becoming increasingly politicized. Despite officialdenials, some traders still feel the U.S. would countenance alower dollar to help trim the nation's trade deficit.    The majority of the 170 billion dlr merchandise tradedeficit in 1986 was with Japan.    Indeed U.S. Treasury secretary James Baker's comment onSunday that the February currency pact had not establisheddollar targets was read by the market as a signal to sell theU.S. currency and kicked off the latest retreat.    "The dollar still has more room on the downside against theyen based on the frictions in trade and financial services. Thecurrency market is becoming very political," said Natsuo Okadaof Sumitomo Bank Ltd.    Okada expects the dollar to trade between 148 and 150 yenthis week but sees the chance of a drop to 140 yen by the endof April or early May.    Even if West Germany and Japan succeed in stimulating theireconomies, it may not be enough to solve structural economicimbalances in the near future, dealers said.    "Even if Japan and West Germany do expand this year, itwon't be enough to help the trade situation much," saidBourdain of BankAmerica, who also expects the dollar to drop to148 yen in the next couple of days. Reuter
FED'S JOHNSON SAYS DOLLAR STABILIZED AFTER FED TOOK APPROPRIAT The chairman of the Federal ReserveBoard, Paul Volcker, has written to the chairman of the HouseBanking Committee to raise concerns about legislative proposalsscheduled for consideration Wednesday.    Volcker told committee chairman Fernand St. Germain aproposal to deny primary dealer status to firms from countriesthat do not grant U.S. firms equal access to their governmentdebt markets might invite retaliation against U.S. firmsabroad.    He added, "even Japan, against whom this proposal seems tobe particularly directed," has started opening its markets.    In his letter, made available at the Treasury, Volcker alsosaid a proposal to ease debt problems of developing countriesby setting up a public facility to buy their debts owed tocommercial banks, was a problem.    "I believe that the prospect of debt relief would underminethe difficult internal efforts of the borrowing countries toachieve the structural reform that is needed regardless of thepolicies that are followed on servicing external debt," Volckersaid.    It might also cause private lenders to become reluctant toextend more credit to the borrowing countries, he said.    Volcker said he endorsed comments by Treasury SecretaryJames Baker "about the inappropriateness of using publicresources for purchasing private commercial bank debt, which weboth see as an inherent aspect of the proposed internationaldebt facility."    He also said a proposal for establishing formal proceduresfor international negotiations on currency exchange rates "isunrealistic and could well have damaging effects."    "For example, the bill's directive to intitiate negotiationsin order to achieve a competitive exchange rate for the dollar-- a matter upon which there can be considerable differenceamong analysts -- runs the risk of building up potentiallydestabilizing market expectations," Volcker said.    He recommended "we should not lock ourselves into formalizedprocedures for international negotiations" on exchange rates butinstead use other, more flexible means like the recent mmetingin Paris between U.S. treasury and central bank representativesand those of major trade allies. Reuter
FED'S JOHNSON SAYS FED ACTED TO STABILIZE DOLLAR Federal Reserve Board Vice ChairmanManuel Johnson said the dollar has stabilized against othercurrencies after action taken by the Fed.    "We have taken the appropriate action and the dollar hasstabilized," Johnson said after testifying to a House Bankingsubcommittee.    He did not elaborate on the nature of the action nor whenit was taken, but said that it was in the spirit of theagreement reached by six industrial nations in Paris recently.    Johnson said the dollar's decline against other currenciessuch as the Japanese yen has been gradual.    Since the accord by the United States, Britain, WestGermany, Japan, France and Canada, foreign exchange marketshave been closely watching for indications of intervention bycentral banks to determine the committment by those nations totheir agreement.    The nations agreed that currency exchange rates were atabout the correct levels when the pact was signed earlier thisyear. Reuter
VOLCKER CALLS DOLLAR SLIDE ENOUGH Federal Reserve Board Chairman PaulVolcker said that the dollar's slide in currency markets hasbeen enough, a Fed spokesman said.    The spokesman confirmed that Volcker, who spoke to a groupof financial analysts, said in answer to a question about thedollar's recent slide that "enough is enough."    Volcker has often expressed concern about the dollarfalling too rapidly in currency markets. Reuter
Bank of Japan bought 200 to 300 mln dlrs this morning, deale The Bank of Japan bought a modest amountof dollars this morning, possibly around 200 to 300 mln,dealers said.    One dealer said the central bank bought about 200 mln dlrsthrough brokers and the rest through banks. The buying beganwhen the dollar was at about 149.60 yen, and helped drive theU.S. Currency up to around 150, he said.    Another said the central bank seemed to be trying to pushthe dollar up above 150 yen. But heavy selling at around thatlevel quickly pushed the dollar back down towards 149 yen,dealers said. REUTER
Bank of Japan keeps intervening to hold dollar above 149 yen, The Bank of Japan is continuing tointervene in the Tokyo market, buying small amounts of dollarsto hold the unit above 149 yen, brokers said.    They said the Bank is coming in when the dollar is around149.05/10 yen, the same levels as New York's close yesterdayand the midday close in Tokyo today.    Dealers said the Bank of Japan is intervening in the marketthrough both banks and brokers this afternoon.    The central bank is checking selling orders through banksand placing matching buy orders, they said.    The central bank started to intervene shortly after themarket opened here in the afternoon, the dealers said. REUTER
Current exchange rates almost within levels agreed by major nations  Thailand's foreign reserves of gold,special drawing rights and convertible currencies fell to 3.86billion dlrs at end-February from 3.95 billion the previousmonth, but were above the 3.08 billion held at the same timelast year, the Bank of Thailand said.    It said the reserves were equal to about five months' worthof imports. REUTER
EXCHANGE RATES ALMOST WITHIN G-6 LEVELS - SUMITA Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumitasaid that current exchange rates are almost within the levelsagreed to by six major nations last month in Paris.    Asked whether a dollar/yen rate of 148 or 149 reflectedeconomic fundamentals, he said current rates almost reflectfundamentals.    Sumita told reporters major nations have cooperated tobring about currency stability in line with the Parisagreement, which stipulated that they would closely cooperateto that end. He repeated the central bank will intervene ifnecessary, adding he did not think a dollar free-fall waslikely.    But Sumita said he could not say exactly what currencylevels would be considered in line with underlying economicfundamentals.    In Paris on February 22, Britain, Canada, France, Japan,the U.S. And West Germany agreed to cooperate to holdcurrencies around their then current levels.    Sumita said he could not find any specific reasons behindthe fall of the dollar to a record low against the yenyesterday. But he said the market rushed to sell dollars as itnervously reacted to statements abroad and to developmentssurrounding trade tensions.    U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said over the weekendthat the Paris pact did not encompass fixed tragets for thedollar. U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter calledU.S/Japan relations on certain key trade issues very strained.    The market reacted nervously because the dollar has beenmoving narrowly against the yen since mid-January, Sumita said.He added he does not expect the yen/dollar exchange rate toremain unstable because the market is concerned about a sharprise of the yen.    The Bank of Japan will keep a close watch on exchange ratesin line with the Paris accord, he added. REUTER
Japan Trade Ministry asks trade houses, exporters to reduce dlr sales, The Food Department will no longerimport sugar from April 1, senior officials of the Food andCooperatives Ministry and the Department told Reuters.    They said the decision was taken after the Sugar ImportersAssociation asked that the sugar trade be further liberalised.    "The Food Department will cease trading in sugar and will nolonger hold a buffer stock," a senior official said.    He said the government has finalised an agreement withE.D.F.Man (Sugar) Ltd under which E.D.F.Man will hold a bufferstock on the government's behalf of 20,000 tonnes, against the45,000 tonne buffer stock usually held by the Department.    Officials said the size of the buffer stock has beenreduced because the private sector will hold its own stocks.    The agreement with E.D.F. Man includes details such astrigger pricing mechanisms, they said.    Four months ago the Department allowed the private sectorto import sugar without government clearance. The Departmentand the private sector each imported around 115,000 tonnes ofsugar last year, when national consumption was 280,000 tonnes.    An Importers Association official said that "even if theDepartment no longer imports sugar, we would not necessarilybuy more."    This is because the Association would still have to competewith the Cooperatives Wholesale Establishment (CWE), he said.    The CWE is a semi-government body and the official saidarrangements are being made for state cooperatives and holdersof food subsidy stamps to draw their sugar from it, startingApril 1.    Ministry officials said the CWE can either import sugar orbuy it from a local bonded warehousing scheme run by E.D.F. Forthe past two years. REUTER
NEW DUTCH SPECIAL ADVANCES TOTAL 4.2 BILLION The Dutch Central Bank said itallocated 4.183 billion guilders at tender for the new 5.3 pct,nine-day special advances.    Bids were fully met for the first 200 mln guilders and for40 pct above.    The new advances for the period March 25 to April 4,replace current 5.3 pct, five day advances totalling 4.003billion guilders which expire today.    Money brokers said yesterday they expected the Bank toallocate about 3.5 billion guilders. REUTER
JAPAN ASKS TRADERS, EXPORTERS TO CUT DOLLAR SALES The Ministry of International Trade andIndustry (MITI) has asked about 30 Japanese trading houses andexporters to refrain from excessive dollar selling, tradinghouse officials said.    The officials told Reuters MITI asked them to moderatetheir foreign exchange trading because the excessive rise inthe yen will have unfavourable effects on the economy. It madethe request by telephone.    A MITI official said the ministry has conducted a survey offoreign exchange trading by trade houses and exporters. But hesaid it was not aimed at moderating dollar selling.    The trading house officials said MITI had asked them toundertake foreign exchange transactions with due considerationto the adverse effects excessive exchange rate movements wouldhave on the economy.    The MITI official said MITI undertakes such surveys whenexchange rates fluctuate widely. A similiar survey was madewhen the currency fell to the previous record low of 149.98 onJanuary 19. It hit a new record low of 148.20 yen yesterday.    He said the survey showed currency transactions by tradehouses and exporters contributed little to the dollar fall. REUTER
MIDDLE EAST CURRENCY MARKET SEES KEY CHANGES Middle East currency dealers meet inAbu Dhabi this weekend at a time of fundamental change in theirbusiness, which has seen a growing volume of trade shift fromthe Arab world to London.    The 14th congress of the Inter-Arab Cambiste Associationalso comes at a time when the prospect of a unified Gulfcurrency system is more real that at any time this decade.    Foreign exchange traders and bank treasurers said theseissues, and the slide of the Lebanese pound, can be expected tobe major talking points.    About 250 traders and treasurers from some 115 banks --including some in London and other major non-Arab financialcentres -- are expected to attend the conference which beginson on Saturday.    Bankers said it is hard to avoid the impression that agrowing proportion of transactions in the Saudi riyal market,by far the largest in the region, is being carried out inLondon.    The market had been dominated by Saudi Arabia's 11 banks,foreign exchange houses in the Kingdom and offshore banks inBahrain. But bankers said more and more Saudi and Bahrain-basedbanks are boosting their treasury operations in London.    As recession hit the Middle East and the need for tradefinance in the region declined, many offshore banks in Bahrainran down their currency operations. None of the four major U.K.Clearing banks now has a dealing room on the island.    The two major Bahrain-based international banks, <ArabBanking Corp> and <Gulf International Bank BSC> have increasedtheir presence in London and Saudi banks are busy upgradingrepresentative offices to branch status to allow dealing.    One economist said: "It is cheaper to run a riyal book inLondon than staff an expensive offshore operation in Bahrain...There is now the nucleus of a two-way market in London."    Jeddah-based <Riyad Bank> set up as a licensed deposittaker in London in 1984, while its main rival in Saudi Arabia,<National Commercial Bank> (NCB) won a licence in November1986.    The major market maker has traditionally been London-basedconsortium bank <Saudi International Bank> but the kingdomjoint-venture <Saudi American Bank> (SAMBA) also upgraded itsLondon operation to deposit taker status in mid-February.    One senior currency trader in Riyadh said: "Inevitably thevolume of business in London has gained pace with the two newlicences for NCB and SAMBA, but there is no question that mostof the liquidity still rests in Saudi Arabia."    Currency traders said the shift to London in the Saudiriyal market is difficult to quantify.    Bahrain Monetary Agency figures show regional currencydeposits held by offshore banks, most in Saudi riyals, droppedto the equivalent of 12.2 billion dlrs at end-September 1986from 13.4 billion at end-1985 and a 1983 peak of 15.0 billion.    The shift has prompted changes in dealing habits. Riyaltrading in the Gulf on Saturdays and Sundays has become veryquiet with London closed while some Saudi and Bahrain banks nowstaff offices on Friday, the Gulf weekend. Traders also expect<Arab National Bank> to step up London operations.    Traders say it is difficult to foresee the riyal marketmoving completely out of the region, partly because of localdemand and partly because of what is seen as the Saudi ArabianMonetary Agency's (SAMA) desire to moderateinternationalisation of the riyal and protect it from unduespeculation.    There have been far fewer signs of the Kuwaiti dinar marketshifting from its natural base of Kuwait and trading in Bahrainand London is still limited.    But for the first time since the formation of the sixnation Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) in 1981 there are signsthat a much mooted currency union could come into force soon.    Currency traders said it remains unclear what form a finalcurrency union would take for the six states -- Saudi Arabia,Kuwait, Bahrain, Oman, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates.    But plans to link the six currencies in a European MonetarySystem style with a common peg have been discussed at highlevel and could be a topic on the GCC's annual summit expectedto be held in Saudi Arabia late in the year.    One dealer said: "A lot of exposure is being given todiscussions and plans appear to be quite advanced. But in theend a political decision has to be taken to give the go-ahead."    One open question is that of a common peg for currencies.    The idea of linking the six currencies has been debatedsince the start of the GCC. The Kuwaiti dinar is currentlylinked to a basket of currencies while the other fivecurrencies are either officially or in practice linked to theU.S. Dollar.    Some traders said a currency union could mean speculationagainst the Saudi riyal rubbing off on other Gulf currencies,but plans call for a permitted divergence in the system of7-1/4 pct, large enough to avoid sudden strains.    Another topic for debate is expected to be the continuedslide of the Lebanese pound against the dollar and theundermining of the effective capital base of Lebanese banks. REUTER
YEN MAY RISE TO 140 TO THE DLR, NIKKEIREN SAYS The yen could rise to 140 yen to thedollar, a leading Japanese businessman said.    Bumpei Otsuki, president of the influential JapanFederation of Employers' Associations, (Nikkeiren), toldreporters: "The yen might rise as far as 140 (to the dollar).The U.S. Economy is not good, and as long as the U.S. Economyis not good, the U.S. Will put various pressures (on Japan)."    "The yen's level depends on the condition of the U.S.Economy rather than Japan's economy, and as long as theAmerican situation is bad, the yen will continue to rise," hesaid.    To cope with the negative impact of the strong yen,Japanese enterprises must strive to cut costs by all means,including holding down wages as much as possible, Otsuki said.    He rejected recent calls from some government quarters forwage increases this year as a means of raising privateconsumption and thus boosting domestic demand.    "We have to keep wages as low as possible," he said.    He also said the yen's large and rapid rise is depressingthe outlook for the Japanese economy, noting that in additionto hurting exporters it is also damaging domestic marketmanufacturers through cheap imports.    Parts of the service sector are also threatened, Otsukisaid.    Tertiary industries provide services to manufacturers and adownturn in manufacturing profits will adversely affect serviceindustries, he said.    It is also doubtful whether the tertiary sector can fullyemploy those put out of work in the manufacturing sector, hesaid.    Profits of service sector companies are likely to fall inthe business year ending in March 1988, leading to a possiblerecession in the Japanese economy, he said.    Otsuki said economic growth is unlikely to pick up beyondlevels experienced in 1986.    The government's Economic Planning Agency said last weekthe economy grew at 2.5 pct in 1986, the worst performancesince 1974 when the economy shrank 1.4 pct due to the first oilprice crisis.    In order to stimulate domestic demand and boost theeconomy, tax reforms aimed at bringing down the cost of landand reforming the nation's housing stock are needed, along withsteps to bring down the high cost of commodities, he said. REUTER
JAPAN BUYS MODEST AMOUNT OF DOLLARS, DEALERS SAY The Bank of Japan bought a modest amountof dollars this morning, possibly around 200 to 300 mln,dealers said.    One dealer said the central bank bought about 200 mln dlrsthrough brokers and the rest through banks. The buying beganwhen the dollar was at about 149.60 yen, and helped drive theU.S. Currency up to around 150, he said.    Another said the central bank seemed to be trying to pushthe dollar up above 150 yen. But heavy selling at around thatlevel quickly pushed the dollar back down towards 149 yen,dealers said. REUTER
JAPAN DOES NOT INTEND TO CUT DISCOUNT RATE-SUMITA Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumitasaid the central bank has no intention of cutting its discountrate again as a way of preventing the yen's rise.    He told a press conference that the growth of Japanesemoney supply remains high.    The bank will have to watch closely various developmentsresulting from its already eased monetary stance, such as thesharp rise in real estate and stock prices, he said.    Although the yen's rise will have a greater deflationaryimpact on the economy, the economy is not likely to slow downmuch further, Sumita said.    "I don't think we should change our economic outlook at themoment," Sumita said.    Sumita has said in the past that he expects the economy toshow a gradual upturn in the second half of the year.    The governor said the six major industrial nations areexpected to review last month's pact on currency stability whenthey meet next in April.    Dealers said they expect the six - Britain, Canada, France,Japan, the U.S. Amd West Germany - to meet just before theIMF/World Bank interim committee meeting in Washington startingon April 9. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET FORECAST REVISED TO SHOW SURPLUS The Bank of England said it had revisedits forecast of the liquidity position in the money markettoday to a surplus of 150 mln stg after it estimated a flatposition earlier this morning. REUTER
BANK OF ENGLAND DOES NOT OPERATE IN MONEY MARKET The Bank of England said it had notoperated in the money market during the morning session.    Earlier, the Bank revised its forecast of the liquidityposition in the system today to a surplus of 150 mln stg fromits original estimate of a flat position. REUTER
EXCHANGE RATES ALMOST WITHIN G-6 LEVELS - SUMITA Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumitasaid that current exchange rates are almost within the levelsagreed to by six major nations last month in Paris.    Asked whether a dollar/yen rate of 148 or 149 reflectedeconomic fundamentals, he said current rates almost reflectfundamentals.    Sumita told reporters major nations have cooperated tobring about currency stability in line with the Parisagreement, which stipulated that they would closely cooperateto that end. He repeated the central bank will intervene ifnecessary, adding he did not think a dollar free-fall waslikely.    But Sumita said he could not say exactly what currencylevels would be considered in line with underlying economicfundamentals.    In Paris on February 22, Britain, Canada, France, Japan,the U.S. And West Germany agreed to cooperate to holdcurrencies around their then current levels.    Sumita said he could not find any specific reasons behindthe fall of the dollar to a record low against the yenyesterday. But he said the market rushed to sell dollars as itnervously reacted to statements abroad and to developmentssurrounding trade tensions.    U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said over the weekendthat the Paris pact did not encompass fixed tragets for thedollar. U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter calledU.S/Japan relations on certain key trade issues very strained.    The market reacted nervously because the dollar has beenmoving narrowly against the yen since mid-January, Sumita said.He added he does not expect the yen/dollar exchange rate toremain unstable because the market is concerned about a sharprise of the yen.    The Bank of Japan will keep a close watch on exchange ratesin line with the Paris accord, he added. REUTER
JAPAN ASKS TRADERS, EXPORTERS TO CUT DOLLAR SALES The Ministry of International Trade andIndustry (MITI) has asked about 30 Japanese trading houses andexporters to refrain from excessive dollar selling, tradinghouse officials said.    The officials told Reuters MITI asked them to moderatetheir foreign exchange trading because the excessive rise inthe yen will have unfavourable effects on the economy. It madethe request by telephone.    A MITI official said the ministry has conducted a survey offoreign exchange trading by trade houses and exporters. But hesaid it was not aimed at moderating dollar selling.    The trading house officials said MITI had asked them toundertake foreign exchange transactions with due considerationto the adverse effects excessive exchange rate movements wouldhave on the economy.    The MITI official said MITI undertakes such surveys whenexchange rates fluctuate widely. A similiar survey was madewhen the currency fell to the previous record low of 149.98 onJanuary 19. It hit a new record low of 148.20 yen yesterday.    He said the survey showed currency transactions by tradehouses and exporters contributed little to the dollar fall. REUTER
CENTRAL BANKS BUY DOLLARS FOR YEN IN LONDON The Bank of Japan intervened to stemstrong yen rises against the dollar during London trading thismorning, dealers said.    The Bank of Japan here declined comment.    The Bank of England was also rumored to be buying dollarsagainst the yen this morning but it also declined comment.    Dealers said the intervention halted a sudden late morningdrop to a low of 148.65 yen, holding the dollar steady untilmidsession at about 148.80.    The Bank of England was strongly rumored to have intervenedon behalf of the dollar against the yen yesterday, but it gaveno confirmation.    Overnight reports from Tokyo said that the Bank of Japanwas aggressively supporting the dollar, but failed to push itback to the perceived target level of 150 yen.    Selling during the London trading morning was largelyattributed to Japanese institutions.    Dealers here were loath to quantify the scale of Bank ofJapan action this morning. One U.S. Bank trader said it couldhave been up to 500 mln dlrs, but said this was largely aguess. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET SURPLUS REVISED TO 250 MLN STG The Bank of England said it revised upits forecast of today's surplus in the money markets to 250 mlnstg from its earlier estimate of a 150 mln.    The central bank has not operated in the market today. REUTER
 Bundesbank buys dollars for yen - Frankfurt Reuters Holdings Plc <RTRS.L> said ithad agreed in principle to buy <I P Sharp Associates Ltd> ofToronto for 30.4 mln stg.    Sharp is a time-sharing network and database companyspecialising in finance, economics, energy and aviation. Itoperates a global packet-switching network and global limitssystems for foreign exchange trading.    Sharp shareholders will be offered cash, shares or amixture of the two in settlement. The acquisition, which issubject to Canadian government approval, would be throughamalgamation into a specially-created company.    Reuters said it had been given options by a number of Sharpshareholders covering 67 pct of the common stock pendingcompletion of a Reuters review of the company.    Sharp operates 38 offices in 20 countries. In 1986 itreported revenue of 55 mln Canadian dlrs with a pretax loss of1.6 mln compared with a 1.9 mln profit in 1985.    However, Sharp said that internal accounts showed thecompany was in profit in the first two months of 1987.    End-1986 net assets totalled 11.85 mln dlrs.    A Reuters statement said the acquisition would fitperfectly into its package for the banking and securitiesindustries. REUTER
BUNDESBANK BUYS DOLLARS IN FRANKFURT - DEALERS The Bundesbank bought large amountsof dollars for yen in an apparent attempt to hold the dollarabove 149 yen, dealers said.    The dollar intervention was in concert with some othercentral banks, they said.    Dealers said the Bank of Japan and Bank of Englandsupported the dollar against the yen earlier today and thatthese two banks and the U.S. Federal Reserve were also activeyesterday.    The Bundesbank declined to comment on the dealers' remarks.    Dealers said the intervention underlined the determinationof central banks to keep currencies within recent rangesfollowing last month's agreement in Paris by six leadingcountries to foster currency stability.    One dealer said he had been repeatedly in contact with theBundesbank during the morning to see if it wanted to buydollars after the Japanese and U.K. Central bank moves.    He said the Bundesbank told him it was observing thesituation to see if it should intervene in consultation withother central banks.    Since the Paris agreement on February 22 the dollar haduntil yesterday traded in a 1.8150-1.8700 mark range, and above150 yen, with traders reluctant to push the dollar down to testcentral banks' resolve to defend currency stability.    But the test came this week with the dollar falling below1.81 marks and 150 yen. Dealers said a reviving trade disputebetween Washington and Tokyo and growing sentiment that thedollar would have to fall further to narrow the obstinate U.S.Trade deficit were behind the weakness.    This week's intervention showed central banks were preparedto cooperate to defend the Paris pact, dealers said.    Dealers said it was significant the West German and Britishcentral banks were supporting the dollar against the yen.    That showed the pact involved multilateral cooperation bycentral banks to foster currency stability, they said.    But it was unclear how such cooperation was being arrangedand how frequent consultations between central banks were. REUTER
BANK OF ENGLAND DRAINS MONEY MARKET LIQUIDITY The Bank of England said it drainedliquidity from the money market when it sold 167 mln stg oftreasury bills due March 27 at rates between 9-9/16 and 10 pct.    Earlier, the bank estimated a surplus of around 250 mln stgin the system today. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES IN MARKET The Federal Reserve will probablyintervene in the government securities market to add reservestoday, economists said.    They expected the Fed will supply temporary reservesindirectly via 1.5 to two billion dlrs of customer repurchaseagreements.    Fed funds hovered at a relatively high 6-1/4 pct thismorning after averaging 6.14 pct on Tuesday.    Early this afternoon the Fed also is expected to supplyreserves permanently, effective Thursday, by offering to buyall maturities of Treasury bills. Reuter
JOHNSON SAYS FED'S ACTIONS YESTERDAY MEANT TO STABILIZE DOLLAR AT CURREN Shr 23 cts vs not reported    Net 282,000 vs 1,000    Sales 18.6 mln vs 18.7 mln    Six mths    Shr 48 cts vs 17 cts    Net 583,000 vs 213,000    Sales 37.8 mln vs 37.5 mln   NOTE: 1987 six months net includes a loss from discontinuedoperations equal to two cts a share.    1986 net includes losses from discontinued operations offour cts in the quarter and six cts in the six months. Reuter
TREASURY'S BAKER SEES CUT IN TRADE DEFICIT Treasury Secretary James Baker saidthe administration is confident the effect of exchange ratechanges will bring about a cut in the trade deficit this year.    In testimony before the Senate Committee on GovernmentalAffairs, Baker conceded that the effect thus far has "not yetproved as quick or as strong as had been expected from pastexperience."    He told the committee, however, that the "initial signs areencouraging." Reuter
BAKER SAYS U.S. WILLING TO COOPERATE TO STABILIZE EXCHAN Treasury Secretary James Baker saidthe United States and other nations were willing to cooperateto stabilize foreign exchange rates at the levels that existedat the time of an international agreement last month.    "Our position with respect to the dollar goes back to theParis Agreement that the currencies were within ranges broadlyconsistent with underlying economic conditions," Baker told aSenate committee.    Baker continued, "We said further that we and others arewilling to cooperate closely to foster stability in exchangerates around those levels."    He referred to a February agreement by six leadingindustrial nations to cooperate on monetary matters.    Baker refused to answer a question whether Japan andGermany had done enough to stimulate their domestic economiesfor the United States to support the dollar.    "I will not comment because the foreign exchange marketreads more or less than is intended in my statements," Bakersaid.    Baker said that the other signatories recognized that theymust carry their share of the load of correcting externalimbalances that have hindered the world's economy.    He cited news reports that Germany would increase aproposed tax cut for 1988 by about five billion marks tostimulate domestic growth.    Japan also agreed to consider stimulative measures afterthe Japanese budget was made final.    Baker said those nations were stimulating their economiesin a manner consistent with gains against inflation. Reuter
EXCHANGE RATE BILL CLEARS U.S. HOUSE PANEL The House Banking Committee adoptedlegislation to direct the U.S. Treasury to begin negotiationsaimed at seeking regular adjustment of exchange rates by  countries such as Taiwan and South Korea, whose currencies arepegged to the value of the U.S. dollar.    The measure was adopted as part of a wide-ranging tradebill that will be considered by the full House in April beforeit moves on to the Senate.    The bill's many provisions also set as a priority for theU.S. the negotiation of stable exchange rates and urgegovernment intervention as necessary to offset fluctuations.    In addition, the Banking Committee bill would authorizeU.S. banks to use a variety of means to deal with the debtproblems of developing countries, such as lowering interestrates on existing debt, renegotiating loans or debtforgiveness. The bill would give a blanket waiver of anyfederal banking regulations that bar such actions.    The bill would direct Treasury Secretary James Baker todiscuss with debt-ridden developing countries the possibilityof the U.S. setting up a public debt management agency thatwould purchase their debt at a discount and negotiate therestructuring of the debt.    The Banking bill authorizes U.S. participation in amultilateral investment guarantee agency (MIGA) as requested bythe administration. Congress would approve an initial U.S.subscription of 22 mln dlrs.    And, it sets up a council on industrial competitivenesscomposed of industry and administration members to explore waysto make the U.S. more competitive in world markets. Reuter
EXCHANGE RATE BILL CLEARS U.S. HOUSE PANEL The House Banking Committee adoptedlegislation to direct the U.S. Treasury to begin negotiationsaimed at seeking regular adjustment of exchange rates by  countries such as Taiwan and South Korea whose currencies arepegged to the value of the U.S. dollar.    The measure was adopted as part of a wide-ranging tradebill that will be considered by the full House in April beforeit moves onto the Senate.    The bill's many provisions also set as a priority for theU.S. the negotiation of stable exchange rates and urgegovernment intervention as necessary to offset fluctuations. Reuter
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS HE STANDS BY PARIS PACT TO FOSTER STABLE CU The shareholders of IllinoisCooperative Futures Co voted to dissolve the 26-year-old firm,the futures trading arm of 85 farm cooperatives, its presidentsaid.    Thomas E. Mulligan, president of the board of directors,said 87 pct of the 61 members voting favored dissolution.    The directors recommended the move, citing falling volumeand higher costs, when it called a special shareholders meetinglast month.    Mulligan said the cooperative would continue operatinguntil April 24, when the member cooperatives will have to beginclearing their futures trades through other companies.    Mulligan said one of the members, Farmers Commodities ofDes Moines, Iowa, was attempting to organize a new cooperativeto replace Illinois Coop as a clearing company.    Sources close to Farmers Commodities confirmed its plans,but Hal Richards, president, could not be reached immediatelyfor comment, and it was unknown how many cooperatives might bewilling to band together.    Industry sources said Farmers Commodities would face adifficult task in setting up a new clearing organization byApril 24, the day Illinois Cooperative will be dissolved.    They would have to obtain commitments from a sufficientnumber of cooperatives to meet minimum capital requirements,obtain trading memberships, and set up the office mechanisms tohandle futures trading.    In the meantime, commercial clearing firms have beencourting the individual coops, trying to obtain their businesswith low trading rates.    If Farmers Commodities is unable to set up a clearingorganization by April 24, individual members will find otherhomes, and they're unlikely to change clearing firms a secondtime, one industry source said.    The demise of Illinois Coop was set in motion by thewithdrawl of Growmark, Inc., the largest member with more than70 pct of the capital stock, according to sources within thecooperative.    Mulligan acknowledged prior to the vote that Growmark hadno need to belong to the cooperative since it became affiliatedlast year with Archer Daniels Midland.    But he said Illinois Cooperative would still have been ableto meet minimum capital requirements without Growmark.    The vote to dissolve the organization was met with "acertain amount of pang," he said. "But in the final analysis,the decision has to be economic, not emotional." Reuter
BAKER SAYS HE STANDS BY PARIS CURRENCY AGREEMENT Treasury Secretary James Baker saidhe stood by the Paris agreement among leading industrialnations to foster exchange rate stability around currentlevels.    "I would refer you to the Paris agreement which was arecognition the currencies were within ranges broadlyconsistent with economic fundamentals," Baker told The CableNews Network in an interview.    "We were quite satisfied with the agreement in Parisotherwise we would not have been a party too it," he said.    Baker also noted the nations agreed in the accord to"co-operate to foster greater exchange rate stability aroundthose levels."    He refused to comment directly on the current yen/dollarrate but said flatly that foreign exchange markets recentlytended "to draw unwarranted inferences from what I say."    Baker was quoted on British Television over the weekend assaying he has no target for the U.S. currency, a statement thattriggered this week's renewed decline of the dollar.    "I think the Paris agreement represents evidence thatinternational economic policy co-ordination is alive and well,"Baker said.    The Treasury Secretary stressed however it was veryimportant for the main surplus countries to grow as fast asthey could consistent with low inflation to resolve tradeimbalances.    He added that Federal Reserve Board chairman Paul Volckerhas also "been very outspoken" in suggesting main tradingpartners grow as fast as they can.    Baker noted that the J-curve, the delayed beneficial effectof a weakening of a currency on that country's trade balance,takes 12 to 18 months to work its way through to the tradedeficit and it is now 18 months since the Plaza agreement tolower the dollar's value.    He also said improvements in the trade deficit should comefrom other sources besides the exchange rate, and pointed outthe administration's package to improve U.S. Competitivenesswas now before Congress. REUTER
Sumita says further yen rise would adversely affect Japanese New Zealand's broadly defined,seasonally adjusted M-3 money supply grew an estimated 2.4 pctin January against a 3.4 pct (revised from 3.6) rise inDecember and a 0.7 pct rise in January 1986.    It said unadjusted M-3 increased to an estimated 30.13billion N.Z. Dlrs from 30.08 (revised from 30.06) billion inDecember and 25.18 billion in January 1986.    Year-on-year M-3 rose 19.66 pct in January from 17.80 pct(revised from 17.77) in December and 20.10 pct in January 1986.    Narrowly defined year-on-year M-1 growth was 21.94 pct inJanuary against 15.89 pct in December and 14.10 pct a yearearlier.    M-1 grew to an estimated 4.72 billion dlrs against 5.03billion in December and 3.87 billion in January 1986.    Year-on-year private sector credit, PSC, grew 31.07 pct inJanuary against 30.64 pct (revised from 30.68) in December and21.40 pct in January 1986. PSC grew to 22.69 billion dlrs from22.24 billion in December and 17.31 billion in January 1986. REUTER
FURTHER YEN RISE WOULD HURT JAPAN ECONOMY, SUMITA Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumitasaid a further yen rise would have adverse effects on theJapanese economy.    He told Japanese business leaders the Bank of Japan willcontinue to take adequate measures, including marketintervention, to stabilize exchange rates if necessary, inclose cooperation with other major industrialized nations. Hesaid the current instability of exchange rates will not last.    Six major nations - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, theU.S. And West Germany - agreed in Paris last month to acttogether to hold currencies stable.    Sumita said the Bank of Japan will continue to pursueadequate and flexible monetary policies while watching economicand financial developments in and outside Japan.    He said the decision to cut the discount rate on February20 was a hard choice for the Bank because monetary conditionshad already been sufficiently eased.    To prevent a resurgence of inflation, the Bank will take avery cautious stance regarding developments stemming from easycredit conditions, he said.    He said the latest discount rate cut to 2.5 pct shouldstabilize exchange rates and expand domestic demand.    Commenting on the dollar's fall below 150 yen, Sumitareiterated he cannot find any specific reason for thecurrency's weakness.    The market undertook speculative dollar selling by reactingto overseas comments by monetary authorities and trade tension,he said.    Sumita repeated that the Japanese economy may graduallyrecover in the latter half of the 1987/88 fiscal year endingApril 1, 1988, provided exchange rates stabilize. REUTER
MIYAZAWA SAYS MAJOR NATIONS ACTING ON PARIS ACCORD Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa saidmajor nations are taking action to stabilise exchange rates inline with their agreement in Paris last month, governmentsources said.    Miyazawa told an Upper House session the six nations --Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany --are abiding by the Paris accord. The six agreed to cooperate tostabilise exchange rates at around current levels.    Miyazawa said he wishes to attend a meeting of seven majornations (G-7) expected just before the IMF/World Bank InterimCommittee meeting in Washington starting on April 9.    The sources quoted Miyazawa as saying Japan is trying toprevent a further rise of the yen. Japan is taking the matterseriously, he added.    Asked if the six nations had agreed to stabilise the dollarat about 153 yen, the rate prevailing at the time of the Paristalks, Miyazawa declined to give specific figures and said anymention of specific rates would create an "unexpected situation." REUTER
BANK OF FRANCE LAUNCHES MONEY MARKET INTERVENTION TENDER -  Year ended December 31.    World group pretax profit 3.21 billion marks vs 3.16billion.    Turnover 38.01 billion marks vs 42.72 billion.    World group turnover comprised domestic sales 10.83 billionvs 10.80 billion, foreign sales 27.18 billion vs 31.92 billion.    Parent pretax profit 1.82 billion marks vs 1.62 billion.    Turnover 14.09 billion vs 15.35 billion.    Parent turnover comprised domestic sales 6.47 billion vs6.84 billion, foreign sales 7.62 billion vs 8.51 billion.    Parent investment in fixed assets 960 mln marks vs 831 mln.    Depreciation of fixed assets 935 mln marks vs 847 mln.    Investment in new participations 2.53 billion marks vs 294mln. REUTER
BANK OF FRANCE LAUNCHES MONEY MARKET TENDER The Bank of France said it set a moneymarket intervention tender today to inject funds to the marketagainst first category paper.    Money market sources said the surprise announcement mightherald a quarter percentage point cut in the central bankintervention rate from the 7-3/4 pct level set March 10, butthey added such a cut was relatively unlikely.    The intervention rate was cut from eight pct on March 10after being raised from 7-1/4 pct on January 2 to head offspeculative pressure against the franc.    Dealers said market fundamentals could justify a furthereasing, but a combination of technical factors and renewedcurrency uncertainties surrounding the dollar had putshort-term upside pressure on interest rates in recentsessions.    Call money rose yesterday to 7-7/8 eight pct from 7-3/4 7/8pct. Today it was first indicated at 8-1/8 1/4 before easing onnews of the tender to 7-13/16 7/8 pct.    Technical factors making for a slight shortage of liquidityin the market included the settlement yesterday of the latestmonthly treasury tap stock tender, on March 5, market sourcessaid. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET LIQUIDITY POSITION EXPECTED FLAT The Bank of England said it has forecasta flat position in the money market today.    Among the main factors, maturing assistance and take-up oftreasury bills will drain 545 mln stg and a rise in notecirculation 35 mln stg but the outflow will be offset by 490mln stg exchequer transactions and bankers balances abovetarget 70 mln. REUTER
SHORT-DATED SAUDI RIYAL RATES FIRM IN QUIET MARKET Short-dated Saudi riyal interest ratesfirmed but other rates were steady in quiet trading, dealerssaid.    "Day-to-day money is a bit tighter," one trader said.    Overnight rose two points to six pct, while most quotes fortomorrow/next and spot/next were 1/2 point higher at aroundsix, 5-1/2 pct.    The periods were essentially steady at 5-7/8, 5/8 pct forone month, 6-1/2, 3/8 pct for three, and 6-7/8, 11/16 for sixmonths.    The spot riyal stood at 3.7500/05 to the dollar after3.7506/09 yesterday. REUTER
MONETARY AUTHORITIES SAID TO LOSE CREDIBILITY The monetary authorities of the majorindustrialised countries lost their credibility this week asthe dollar was sold off despite pleas from ministers andwidespread central bank intervention, dealers said.    The dollar's fall below 150 yen, which follows last month'sParis currency stabilisation agreement by the U.S., Japan, WestGermany, Britain, France and Canada, is a dramatic reversal ofthe success of the Group of Five (G-5) 1985 New York Plazameeting to weaken the dollar, they said.    The G-5 and the market agreed in 1985 that the dollar wasovervalued but this time the market and the authorities are ondifferent sides, dealers said.    Apparent confusion in the ranks of the G-5 nations hasencouraged the market to challenge the authorities despiteconcerted intervention by the central banks of the UnitedStates, Japan, Britain and West Germany, they said.    Pleas by Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa foraction to stabilise the dollar were matched over the weekend bycomments by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker that there wasno target zone for the dollar. The dollar was sold anyway.    Yesterday's comment by Baker that he stood by the Parisaccord did nothing to reverse sentiment, dealers said.    The intervention, backed by remarks by Fed Chairman PaulVolcker and Japanese central bank governor Satoshi Sumita,which a few months ago would have brought the dollar fall to ahalt, has done little but slow the rate of its decline, theynoted.    The situation has again raised the question of whetherintervention can succeed against the trend in today's hugecurrency markets. Dealers said the market's cool response tointervention reflected a basic oversupply of dollars.    "This means that the current dollar selling is not of asheer speculative nature but backed by real demand," said KoichiMiyazaki, deputy general manager at Sanwa Bank.    Dealers said the dollar will remain weak despite theintervention and it is only a matter of time before someoperators try to push it below 148 yen. The dollar closed inTokyo today at 149.40 against New York's 149.30/40. Its recordlow was 148.40 in Tokyo last Tuesday.    Dealers said the dollar will gain only temporary support torise above 150 yen toward early April when the Group of Sevenindustrial nations meets to discuss currencies again.    The market expects the seven nations (the Paris six plusItaly) to try to agree on another way to stabilise currenciesapart from intervention, a chief dealer at a U.S. Bank said.    Dealers said they were unsure what other methods could beused and they are sceptical anyway about how long the Parisaccord nations, particulary the U.S., Will remain willing toprevent a further dollar fall given the continuing high U.S.Trade deficit, especially with Japan.    Further pressure from a protectionist U.S. Congress for alower dollar is also limiting Washington's options, they said.    The market now thinks the central bank action is to slowthe dollar fall, not to push it back over 150 yen, saidTadahiko Nashimoto, manager at Long Term Credit Bank of Japan.    Another bearish factor for the dollar is expected largeforward dollar sales from April to June for export billsfalling due for Japanese exporters from April to September.    The exporters had delayed in expectation of a further yendepreciation, dealers said.    Yesterday's request to 30 trading houses by the Ministry ofInternational Trade and Industry to restrict dollar sales looksineffective in light of this real demand, they said.    The market is also anticipating active institutional dollarsales to hedge currency risks on bond holdings from the newbusiness year starting April 1, dealers said.    "The market seems to have established a new dollar tradingrange between 147 and 149 yen," one dealer said.    The dollar traded between 151 and 153 yen after the Parisaccord on February 22 and 150 yen was then considered the lowend for the dollar against the yen, he said.    Some dealers now believe that if the dollar falls below 148yen, it will pick up renewed downward momentum and slide to145. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET FORECAST REVISED TO DEFICIT The Bank of England said it revised itsestimate of today's money market shortfall to around 350 mlnstg from a flat position. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN BUYS SMALL QUANTITY DOLLARS -DEALERS The Bank of Japan was thought to havebought a small amount of dollars at around 149.30/40 yen,dealers said.    The dollar fluctuated marginally after the small-scaleintervention, believed to total several tens of mlns of dlrs,they said. Large-scale buying by foreign banks or by a lifeinsurance company earlier pushed the dollar upwards, they said.    Trading was not very active and dealers were watching forfurther central bank intervention to smooth out any sharpmovements, but underlying dollar sentiment is still bearish. REUTER
U.K. TRADE FIGURES BUOY HOPES OF INTEREST RATE CUT The release of U.K. February trade datashowing that the current account surplus was a provisional 376mln stg, up from a 73 mln surplus in January, has boosted hopesof an early cut in interest rates, analysts said.    Market forecasts had been for a worse outcome, withexpectations of a deficit in visible trade averaging about 750mln stg, against the official figure of 224 mln stg, sharplynarrower than January's 527 mln deficit.    "The figures are unreservedly good," Chase ManhattanSecurities economist Andrew Wroblewski said.    Sterling rebounded on the trade figures, reversing a weakermorning trend, to stand at 72.1 pct of its trade weighted indexagainst a basket of currencies at midday, unchanged fromyesterday's close but 0.3 points above the 1100 GMT level.    The market had feared that a deteriorating non-oil tradepattern would undermine international support for sterling,which has been the motor behind the recent fall in U.K.Interest rates. Money market sources said the market had begunto doubt that a widely expected drop in bank base lending ratesto 9.5 pct from the present 10.0 pct was really on the cards.    But sentiment now looks to have turned about again.    There now looks to be no danger that the Chancellor of theExchequer Nigel Lawson's forecast of a 1987 current accountdeficit of 2.5 billion stg will be exceeded, Wroblewski said.    Seasonally adjusted figures showed imports rose in Februaryto 7.16 billion stg from 6.73 billion in January.    Exports rose to a record 6.93 billion from 6.20 billion.    However, Chris Tinker, U.K. Analyst at brokers Phillips andDrew said the faster rise in exports than imports would provepartly aberrational in coming months. He forecast theChancellor's Budget tax cuts would increase consumerexpenditure on imported goods.    However, Warburg Securities economist Ian Harwood said hisfirm was sharply revising its 1987 current account deficitforecast in the light of the latest data, cutting one billionstg off the expected full year total to about 1.75 billion stg.    He said news of strong growth in exports of non-oil goodsconfirmed recent bullish surveys among members of theConfederation of British Industry.    The growth in imports appears to be flattening, even ifJanuary's bad weather had curbed consumer spending on overseasgoods and import-intensive stock building among manufacturers,Harwood said.    U.K. Government bonds, or gilts, surged by more than 1/2point on the better-than-expected news, as earlier worriesabout the figures evaporated.    Sterling peaked at a high of 1.6075 dlrs, before settlingto a steady 1.6050 about 1300 GMT, nearly a cent higher thanthe European low of 1.5960.    However, analysts noted that the turnabout in marketsentiment still looks highly vulnerable to political news.    Morning weakness in sterling and the gilt market waslargely attributed to a newspaper opinion poll showing that theConservative government's support was slipping.    LONDON, March 26 - The Bank of England said it provided 15mln stg in assistance to the money market this morning, buyingbank bills in band two at 9-13/16 pct.    Earlier the Bank revised its money market liquidityforecast from a flat position to a deficit of around 350 mlnstg. REUTER
CURRENCY EXCHANGE LOSS PUSHES MALAYSIA'S DEBT UP An exchange loss of 7.6 billionringgit in 1986 pushed Malaysia's outstanding external debt upto 50.99 billion ringgit, from 1985's 42.3 billion, the CentralBank said in its annual report.    Bank Negara said although Malaysia's net borrowing droppedin 1986, its external debt rose due to the 30 pct appreciationof the basket of currencies against which the ringgit ispegged.    The basket comprises principally the U.S. Dollar, yen,mark, Swiss franc, French franc, sterling, guilder, Canadianand Singapore dollars, it added.    Bank Negara said growth in external debt, which declinedprogressively from a peak of 58 pct in 1982 to 13.6 pct in1985, rose by 20.2 pct in 1986.    Malaysia's debt serving ratio of 17.6 pct of its exports in1986 is within the prudency limit of 20 pct, Bank NegaraGovernor Jaafar Hussein told reporters. REUTER
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS HE STANDS BY PARIS PACT Treasury Secretary James Baker saidhe stood by the Paris agreement among leading industrialnations to foster exchange rate stability around currentlevels.    "I would refer you to the Paris agreement which was arecognition the currencies were within ranges broadlyconsistent with economic fundamentals," Baker told The CableNews Network in an interview.    "We were quite satisfied with the agreement in Parisotherwise we would not have been a party too it," he said.    Baker also noted the nations agreed in the accord to"co-operate to foster greater exchange rate stability aroundthose levels."    He refused to comment directly on the current yen/dollarrate but said flatly that foreign exchange markets recentlytended "to draw unwarranted inferences from what I say."    Baker was quoted on British Television over the weekend assaying he has no target for the U.S. currency, a statement thattriggered this week's renewed decline of the dollar.    "I think the Paris agreement represents evidence thatinternational economic policy co-ordination is alive and well,"Baker said.    The Treasury Secretary stressed however it was veryimportant for the main surplus countries to grow as fast asthey could consistent with low inflation to resolve tradeimbalances.    He added that Federal Reserve Board chairman Paul Volckerhas also "been very outspoken" in suggesting main tradingpartners grow as fast as they can.    Reuter
U.K. TRADE FIGURES BUOY HOPES OF INTEREST RATE CUT The release of U.K. February trade datashowing that the current account surplus was a provisional 376mln stg, up from a 73 mln surplus in January, has boosted hopesof an early cut in interest rates, analysts said.    Market forecasts had been for a worse outcome, withexpectations of a deficit in visible trade averaging about 750mln stg, against the official figure of 224 mln stg, sharplynarrower than January's 527 mln deficit.    "The figures are unreservedly good," Chase ManhattanSecurities economist Andrew Wroblewski said.    Sterling rebounded on the trade figures, reversing a weakermorning trend, to stand at 72.1 pct of its trade weighted indexagainst a basket of currencies at midday, unchanged fromyesterday's close but 0.3 points above the 1100 GMT level.    The market had feared that a deteriorating non-oil tradepattern would undermine international support for sterling,which has been the motor behind the recent fall in U.K.Interest rates. Money market sources said the market had begunto doubt that a widely expected drop in bank base lending ratesto 9.5 pct from the present 10.0 pct was really on the cards.    But sentiment now looks to have turned about again.    There now looks to be no danger that the Chancellor of theExchequer Nigel Lawson's forecast of a 1987 current accountdeficit of 2.5 billion stg will be exceeded, said Wroblewski.    Seasonally adjusted figures showed that imports rose inFebruary to 7.16 billion stg from 6.73 billion in January.    Exports rose to a record 6.93 billion from 6.20 billion.    However, Chris Tinker, U.K. Analyst at brokers Phillips andDrew said that the faster rise in exports than imports wouldprove partly aberrational in coming months. He forecast theChancellor's Budget tax cuts would increase consumer expeditureon imported goods.    However, Ian Harwood, economist at Warburg Securities, saidhis firm was sharply revising its 1987 current account deficitforecast in the light of the latest data, cutting one billionstg off the expected full year total to about 1.75 billion stg.    He said news of strong growth in exports of non-oil goodsconfirmed recent bullish surveys among members of theConfederation of British Industry.    The growth in imports appears to be flattening, even ifJanuary's bad weather had curbed consumer spending on overseasgoods and import-intensive stock building among manufactureres,Harwood said.    U.K. Government bonds, or gilts, surged by more than 1/2point on the better-than-expected news, as earlier worriesabout the figures evaporated.    Sterling peaked at a high of 1.6075 dlrs, before settlingto a steady 1.6050 dlrs about 1300 GMT, nearly a cent higherthan the European low of 1.5960.    However, analysts noted that the turnabout in marketsentiment still looks highly vulnerable to political news.    Morning weakness in sterling and the gilt market waslargely attributed to a newspaper opinion poll showing that theConservative government's support was slipping.    The Marplan poll, published in "Today," showed Conservativesupport had fallen to 36 pct, from 38 pct last month, while theAlliance of Liberals and Social Democrats had rallied to 31pct, from 21 pct, to run neck and neck with the Labour Party,whose own support fell from 38 pct.    The poll was taken after the Budget, which was greetedenthusiastically by financial markets but seems to have leftthe voters indifferent, political observers said.    Another regular poll is due tomorrow, and eonomists warnthat today's improved sentiment could be dented if support forPrime Minister Margaret Thatcher slips again.    This upsetting of the markets' political perceptions, whichare all but discounting a Conservative victory in the upcominggeneral election, made them more sensitive to the trade data,Harwood said. "The news did come as a very, very substantialrelief," he said.    However, on the interest rate front, economists cautionthat Lawson might be wary of leaving sterling vulnerable byencouraging another base rate fall. They noted Lawson hadalready got an inflation-reducing cut in mortgage rates inresponse to lower base rates, so domestic political reasons forlower rates have been curtailed. REUTER
U.S. TREASURY'S MULFORD REAFFIRMS G-6 PACT TO FOSTER CURRENCY STABILITY AROUND CURREN The price of gold bullion is likelyto rise in the second half of the year on increased privateinvestor demand, West German analysts said.    Gold could rise as high as 500 dlrs per ounce later thisyear, said Peter Witte, director of Westdeutsche LandesbankGirozentrale's trading division, after a presentation by theU.S. Mint to promote its gold and silver Eagle series coins.    "A lot will depend on oil prices and developments on stockexchanges," Witte said, adding he saw gold positioned forfurther rises once it breaks out above 450 dlrs.    Gold was fixed this morning in London at 411.30 dlrs.    Despite current strong interest in gold mine stocks, manyinvestors still want to buy physical gold, Witte said.    Interest in gold mine stocks may also wane if stockexchange rallies under way in many countries start to waver.    Hermann Strohmeyer, vice president of Commerzbank AG'sforeign exchange trading and treasury department, said gold ispoised to rise to 460 to 470 dlrs an ounce in the second halfof this year.    The price is unlikely to fall much below 380 or 390 dlrs anounce, and probably will continue in a range between 380 and430 dlrs in the first half of this year, he said. Reuter
U.K. MONEY MARKET RECEIVES 226 MLN STG ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it operated inthe money market this afternoon, buying 226 mln stg in bills.    In band one, the central bank bought 37 mln stg treasurybills and 72 mln stg bank bills at 9-7/8 pct together with 117mln stg band two bank bills at 9-13/16 pct.    This brings total money market help so far today to 241 mlnstg and compares with the Bank's revised estimate of a 350 mlnstg shortfall. REUTER
BANK OF FRANCE LEAVES MONEY MARKET INTERVENTION RATE UNCHANGED AT 7-3/4 PCT -  MCO Holdings Inc said itsshareholders and those of MAXXAM Group Inc have approved theproposed merger of the two companies.    MCO said one MAXXAM shareholder has filed an objection tothe proposed settlement of shareholder actions related to themerger in the Delaware Court of Chancery. A hearing on thesettlement proposal is scheduled for March 27... The merger issubject to court approval of the settlement as well as to otherconditions. Reuter
BANK OF FRANCE BUYS DOLLARS, SELLS YEN - Tunisia has decided to break diplomaticrelations with Iran, the foreign ministry said.    A communique published by the official TAP news agency saidthe Iranian embassy in Tunis had been engaged in activitiesliable to disturb public order.    These included acts aimed at sowing ideological confusionand anarchy, the communique said. Reuter
U.S TREASURY'S MULFORD REAFFIRMS G-6 AGREEMENT Treasury Assistant Secretary DavidMulford reaffirmed U.S. backing for the Paris Agreement amongsix industrial nations to cooperate closely to foster exchangerate stability around current levels.    In testimony prepared for delivery before a Senate bankingsubcommittee, Mulford said there was broad recognition in Paristhat "further substantial exchange rate shifts could damagegrowth and adjustment prospects."    But he also said while there are clear understandings amongthe countries regarding cooperation, "We have refrained fromestablishing a system of target zones or ranges."    Mulford also said the six nations have not spelled out theway in which they intend to deal with possible marketdevelopments.    He said governments must retain flexibility in dealing withexchange market pressures and efforts to establish rigidexchange rate objectives "or to specify too precisely the goalsof intervention" would hurt official attempts to react tomarket pressures, he said.    Accordingly, Mulford said setting specific currencyobjectives and intervention to achieve those objectives wouldbe counterproductive.    Commenting on the trade deficit, Mulford reiterated theTreasury position that the current account deficit will declinefrom 148 billion dlrs last year to around 130 billion dlrs thisyear, due to the exchange rate adjustments of the past 18months.    But he added trade imbalances would also be corrected bycommitments from West Germany and Japan to stimulate theireconomies and by U.S. efforts to cut the budget deficit andenhance U.S. competitiveness.    He also said some newly industrialized countries should lettheir currencies appreciate. Reuter
BANK OF FRANCE BUYS DOLLARS, SELLS YEN - DEALERS The Bank of France intervened on themarket to buy dollars and sell yen to support the U.S.Currency, dealers said.    A major French bank said it acted for the central bank inbuying between five and 15 mln dlrs against yen.    A dealer at another bank said his bank had been asked topublicise the intervention, to send a clear signal to themarkets that central banks were acting in concert to maintainthe exchange rates agreed to be appropriate at last month'smeeting of the Group of Five and Canada in Paris.    The dollar was being quoted at 6.0950/70 francs in earlyafternoon dealings after a fix of 6.09425 francs.    The major French bank said it sold yen at a rate of 149.28against the dollar.    The U.S. Currency was subsequently being quoted at149.25/35.    The Bank of Japan was reported in the market overnight tobolster the credibility of the Paris accord following severaldays of pressure against the dollar.    Pressure developed after U.S. Treasury Secretary JamesBaker repeated earlier statements that the Reaganadministration had no targets for the dollar, apparentlyundermining the assumption that the agreement in Paris hadfixed broad fluctuation ranges for major currencies.    Baker later said his remark had been misinterpreted. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GETS 25 MLN STG LATE HELP The Bank of England said it providedabout 25 mln stg in late help to the money market, bringing thetotal assistance today to 266 mln stg.    This compares with the bank's revised estimate of a 350 mlnstg money market shortfall. REUTER
MULFORD SAYS G-6 WANTS STABILITY Treasury Assistant Secretary DavidMulford said the Paris agreement among leading industrialnations is intended to produce "reasonable stability" in exchangemarkets over the next few months.    He told a Senate Banking subcommittee the Group of Fivenations and Canada agreed in Paris to "see if there can't be aperiod of reasonable stability instead of volatility" to givetime for the committments in Paris to take place.    Asked by Sen Phil Gramm (R-Tex) whether U.S. interventionwas not in fact overvaluing the dollar, Mulford replied thatthe administration judged that after economic adjustments,current exchange rates reflect underlying economicfundamentals.    In particular, the stability sought by the nations wouldallow West Germany and Japan to stimulate their economiesdomestically and the U.S. to cut its budget deficit, Mulfordsaid in his testimony.    He stressed that a further sharp fall in the dollar wouldhurt the ability of Germany and Japan to boost growth.    Mulford noted that half of West Germany's economy wasaffected by international developments.    He also said increased Japanese domestic growth wouldresult in more U.S. exports to Japan and would not necessarilylead to greater Japanese capital flows to the U.S., as Grammasserted, if Japan reformed its domestic capital market.    Commenting on the Paris agreement, Mulford said, "I thinkexchange rates ought to be stabilized so (Germany's andJapan's) efforts can be carried out.    Mulford rejected Gramm's argument that faster domesticgrowth in Germany and Japan would result in an even lowerdollar.    Mulford said the administration wanted to achieve a patternof higher growth overseas as a way of improving the U.S. tradedeficit.    Otherwise, he said, the trade deficit would be resolvedeither through a much lower dollar or a U.S. recession, bothalternatives he termed unacceptable and undesirable. Reuter
DOLLAR/YEN INTERVENTION RESPONDS TO PRESSURE The Bank of France intervened to buysmall amounts of dollars and sell yen in Paris today tostabilise the exchange rates agreed at last month's meeting ofFinance Ministers of the Group of Five and Canada, foreignexchange dealers said.    But they said recent central bank intervention in theforeign exchange markets appeared to be a limited reaction totemporary pressures rather than a major defence operation.    A Bank of France spokesman declined all comment but sourcesclose to the central bank said it had also intervenedyesterday.    Dealers said the earlier intervention was in concert withthe Bundesbank and Bank of Japan.    The sources said the French central bank could have been inthe market again today in two-way operations, not necessarilyon its own account, but to counter short-term pressures arisingfrom the end of the Japanese financial year on March 31.    One major French bank said it bought between five and 15mln dlrs for the central bank and sold yen at 149.28 to thedollar.    Another bank said it had been asked by the Bank of Franceto say it was in the market, a departure from the centralbank's usual insistence on confidentiality.    But other banks said they had seen no sign of intervention,which they said appeared to be on a very limited scale.    "Even if 10 banks were buying five to 15 mln dlrs, you wouldstill be talking of a small overall amount," said one dealer.    Recent intervention by the Bank of Japan appeared mainly tohave been required to meet year-end window dressing demand foryen. "This is a specific short term phenomenon rather than awider trend," the dealer said.    Operators have been extremely cautious about testing thedollar's trading ranges against the West German mark andJapanese yen.    These ranges were set in February's stabilisation agreementreached here by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker and theFinance Ministers of Japan, Germany, France, Britain andCanada.    But speculative pressures started to build again this weekafter Baker was quoted on British television at the weekend asrepeating earlier statements that Washington had no target forthe dollar.    Baker yesterday moved to defuse speculation he was talkingthe dollar down, telling a Cable News Network interviewer and aSenate committee he stood by the Paris agreement. Foreignexchange markets had been misreading his comments, he said. REUTER
MULFORD DISAPPOINTED IN NEWLY INDUSTRIALIZED (NICS) EFFORTS TO STRENGTHEN CU Ford Motor Co neared General MotorsCorp last year in executive bonuses, while it topped the largerautomaker in profit sharing payments to workers.    Ford, which outstripped GM in earnings last year, said its1986 incentive bonuses totaled 167 mln dlrs, slightly behindGeneral Motors' 169.1 mln.    General Motors, however, did not make any profit-sharingpayments to its workers, while Ford made a profit-sharingdistribution of 372 mln dlrs, or 2,100 dlrs per worker.    General Motors, which saw its earnings drop to 2.94 billiondlrs from 1985's 3.99 billion, said the 1986 profit was "notsufficient to generate a payout under the profit-sharingformula."    Ford, which earned 3.28 billion dlrs in 1986, up from 2.51billion in 1985, said it "recognizes employees' efforts andfulfills its commitment to them in many ways, includingprofit-sharing." Reuter
MULFORD SAYS GERMANY, JAPAN SHOULD DO MORE Treasury Assistant Secretary DavidMulford said he did not believe that West Germany and Japanhave yet carried out their international responsibilities.    "I do not believe they have up to this time," Mulford tolda Senate banking subcommittee.    He said that for the U.S. trade deficit to continueimproving in the next two years, "We need more policy actions"across the entire front of U.S. trade relations, includingCanada and the newly-industrialized countries (NICS).    In particular, he said, efforts by South Korea and Taiwanto strengthen their currencies were still disappointing.    Mulford also said that OECD nations need to grow an averagethree pct to help resolve the international debt crisis.    He noted that Japanese and European imports from Latinnations were significantly smaller than imports into the U.S.    He stressed both Germany and Japan must continue to takeeconomic and structural measures to ensure stronger sustainedeconomic growth. Reuter
GERMAN WAGE ROUND SAID TO LIMIT MONETARY OPTIONS The Bundesbank's options for WestGermany monetary policy are limited for the foreseeable futureby the delicate stage of wage negotiations between unions andemployers, economists and money market dealers said.    Call money fell in quite active trading today, dropping to3.40/50 pct from 3.55/65 pct yesterday, and below the 3.50 pcttreasury bill rate as a difficult month-end approached.    But dealers and economists said the Bundesbank was unlikelyto encourage lower rates in the foreseeable future largely forfear of upsetting the current wage round.    One money market dealer for a major foreign bank said, "Idon't think the Bundesbank wants rates to go up whateverhappens. But it also does not want them to fall. Above all itwants to wait to see how the unions wage round goes."    In West Germany, unions and employers prepare the groundfor triennial wage negotiations based on detailed assessmentsof growth and inflation, economists said.    Ute Geipel, economist with Citibank AG, said if theBundesbank became more accommodating in monetary policy,raising fears in some quarters of a return in inflation in themedium term, unions would be obliged to curtail wage demands.    As a result the Bundesbank was concerned to make no movethat would interfere in the negotiating process, Geipel said.    In the current round, the country's most powerful union,the IG Metall representing metalworkers and engineers, isdemanding a shortening of the working week to 35 hours from thepresent 38-1/2 and an accompanying five pct increase in wages.    The engineering employers' association, Gesamtmetall, isoffering to bring in a 38-hour-week from July 1, 1988, and givea two stage wage increase -- a 2.7 pct rise from April 1 thisyear and another 1.5 pct from July 1, 1988.    The agreement forged by IG Metall -- Europe's largestunion, with 2.5 mln members -- and the employers would set thebenchmark for settlements in other industries such as thepublic sector, banks and federal post office. Negotiationsbegan in December and unions are hopeful they may conclude byearly April, ahead of the traditional holiday period in June.    Though many economists said the unions' current warningstrikes and rhetoric were part of the negotiating strategy andwould not lead to a repeat of 1984's damaging seven-weekstrikes, others said unions would not compromise greatly ontheir positions and there could still be conflict.    This could extend the length of time in which theBundesbank would keep its activity low-key, economists said.    The money market head said the unions' humiliation by theprotracted financial problems of the Neue Heimat cooperativehousing venture would contribute to union obstinacy.    "The unions haven't forgotten that and they will put thissquarely onto the account in the negotiations," he said.    In addition, the newly-elected chairman of the IG Metallunion, Franz Steinkuehler, was more radical and determined thanhis predecessor Hans Meyer and may be set for a longer battleto achieve the best possible settlement for his membership.    More than 16,000 engineering workers at 45 firms, mainly insouth Germany, held warning strikes lasting up to two hoursyesterday. Firms hit included Zahnradfabrik Passau GmbH andaerospace group Messerschmitt-Boelkow-Blohm GmbH.    Today, 28,000 employees from 110 companies came out inwarning strikes, a statement from IG Metall said.    Money market dealers said that overnight call money rateswould rise in the near future in any case and did not depend ona politically-inhibited Bundesbank.    About eight billion marks were coming into the markettomorrow from salary payments by the federal government.    As a result, some banks fell back on the Bundesbank's offerto mop up liquidity via the sale of three-day treasury bills,anticipating still lower rates before the month-end.    But a pension payment date by banks on behalf of customerswas due on Monday, other dealers noted. If banks were short ofliquidity until the bills matured on Tuesday, rates could soar,perhaps to the 5.50 pct Lombard ceiling.    Banks were well stocked up with funds, having an average52.1 billion marks in Bundesbank minimum reserves in the first24 days of March, well above the 50.7 billion requirement. REUTER
FED'S HELLER SAYS DOLLAR'S CURRENT LEVEL IS APP Qtly div 17-1/2 cts vs 17-1/2 cts prior    Pay June 5    Record May 22 Reuter
FED'S HELLER SAYS DOLLAR'S LEVEL IS APPROPRIATE Federal Reserve Board governor RobertHeller said that the dollar's current level is appropriate butdeclined to comment on widespread market reports of concertedcentral bank intervention this week.    "The dollar is stable again... The current level is theappropriate level," Heller told reporters after a speech to ameeting of financial services analysts.    He said last month's six-nation currency accord in Parisdid not include target ranges for the dollar in an "academicway."    Heller also said that it was too early to determine whetherthe parties to the six-nation accord were taking appropriatesteps to carry out the longer-term economic adjustments agreedto in Paris.    "Clearly, they've not been implemented yet... No oneexpects implementation within a week or two," he said.    Earlier today, U.S. Treasury assistant secretary told aSenate banking subcommittee that he did not believe that WestGermany and Japan have yet carried out their internationalresponsibilities. Reuter
PARIS G-6 MEET SET NO TARGETS - LEIGH-PEMBERTON Bank of England Governor RobinLeigh-Pemberton said the Paris pact agreed between six leadingindustrialised nations set no nominal exchange rate targets.    Leigh-Pemberton said in oral evidence to a select committeethat "we did not swap numbers - we reached an understanding" onhow to cooperate towards stabilizing currencies at around theircurrent levels.    He said the accord had brought Britain into a form of jointcurrency float - but one which let it still purse anindependent monetary policy. "I would concede that, since theLouvre Accord, we are acting as if we are in something,"Leigh-Pemberton said.    "The Louvre and Plaza accords show there is a very effectiverole for the (Group of) seven central banks to operate together"towards stabilising exchange rates," Leigh-Pemberton said.    He did not mention this week's intervention by centralbanks to support the dollar, after markets decided to test theaccord.     Leigh-Pemberton said that "the effectiveness of this(cooperation) is actually larger than many of us had thought inthe pre-Plaza days" before September 1985.    He did not indicate what exchange rate levels were broadlysought by the six nations, and noted that "we are more effectivein our agreement if we can leave the markets guessing."    He did not indicate what exchange rate levels were broadlysought by the six nations, and noted that "we are more effectivein our agreement if we can leave the markets guessing."    Leigh-Pemberton said that, in principle, the Bank ofEngland favoured full EMS membership for sterling, providedsuch a move did not endanger U.K. Anti-inflation monetarypolicy. Asked whether he wanted to see U.K. Interest rateslower, he said "the two half point cuts (this month in banks'base lending rates) have been appropriate up until now."    Leigh-Pemberton said he preferred a "cautious step-by-stepapproach" to reducing short term interest rates, not leastbecause "we have a potential problem with inflation."    Underlying U.K. Inflation was currently around 4.0 pct, "oneof the highest" among industrialised nations, he added.    Leigh-Pemberton said the Bank of England had not wantedbase rates to fall before the unveiling of the 1987/88 budgeton March 17, but he said pressure from financial markets forsuch a move had proved irresistible. Base rates are now at 10pct.    Regarding sterling's relationship with oil, Leigh-Pembertonsaid that the pound could be seen being undervalued overall.    He said the current oil price of some 18 dlrs a barrelmight suggest a level of 74 on the Bank of England's sterlingindex, when compared with the index's level before oil pricesdropped from around the 30 dlr level. The index, base 1975,closed here today at 72.1, unchanged from the previous close. Reuter
MOODY'S MAY DOWNGRADE BRITISH PETROLEUM AND STAND Farm-state Senators indicated theymay broaden a Farm Credit System rescue package to include aidfor borrowers from private lenders such as commercial banks, aswell as the farm credit system.    Sen. David Boren, D-Okla., chairman of the SenateAgriculture subcommittee responsible for farm credit, saidlegislation to rescue the financially-troubled system shouldprovide help to borrowers from all lenders to agriculture.    "We must provide some form of interest rate buydown,principal reduction relief for all eligible farmers andranchers regardless of their lending institution," Boren said.    Boren's statement received bipartisan support from Sen.James McClure, R-Idaho, who agreed that the aid package shouldcover all lenders to agriculture.    The comments by Senators of both parties, plus endorsementsfor the across-the-board approach from the nation's largestfarm organization, the American Farm Bureau Federation, andfrom the system itself, appeared to significantly broaden thefocus of the rescue legislation for the farm credit system.Until now, agriculture officials had focused exclusively on howto resurrect the failing system.    Boren said borrowers from private lenders such ascommercial banks and life insurance companies must be includedin the aid package because "it would not be fair to addressonly the problems of Farm Credit System borrowers."    However, Boren and other proponents of an across-the-boardinterest rate or principal buydown did not say how much thebroad approcah would cost.    But Neil Harl, professor of economics at Iowa StateUniversity told the hearing the cost could be in the range of3.5 billion dlrs annually. Reuter
FORMER HERSTATT DEALER CAN BE SUED, COURT RULES The former chief currencydealer of Herstatt Bank, which collapsed in 1974 on foreignexchange speculation in West Germany's biggest banking crash,can stand trial for damages, a court ruled.    The court overturned a claim by Danny Dattel that a casefor damages should not be allowed after such a long interval.    Herstatt creditors are seeking 12.5 mln marks from Dattel,whom they accuse of causing losses at the bank of over 500 mlnmarks by manipulating forward foreign exchange contracts.    The crash of the private Herstatt bank with losses of overone billion marks stunned West Germany's business community,and led to a tightening of banking regulations.    The losses were even greater than the 480 mln marksannounced recently by Volkswagen as a result of fraud incurrency transactions.    Ivan Herstatt, managing director of the bank when itcollapsed, was sentenced to four and a half years in prison in1984 but appealed. Six other people associated with the bankwere jailed in 1983.    But Dattel was freed from prosecution after he producedmedical evidence of paranoia caused by Nazi persecution duringhis childhood, which might have led him to take his own life. Reuter
Bank of Japan buys dollars around 149.00 yen - Tokyo The White House Economic PolicyCouncil decided to recommend trade sanctions against Japan forviolations of the U.S.-Japanese semiconductor agreement,industry sources said.    They would give no details, noting that the White House hadnot commented on the decision. The administration has beenunder pressure to retaliate.    There was no immediate announcement on the council'sdecision, but U.S. Officials said it was likely the seniorpolicy group's move on curbs reflected growing Americanfrustration over alleged unfair Japanese trade practices.    U.S. Officials said President Reagan would probably act onthe recommendations in a day or so, after consulting with aideson the foreign policy implications of retaliation.    The officials said Reagan might delay retaliation for alast try to persuade Japan to abide by the agreement reachedlast July governing trade in semiconductors.    Under a pact reached last July, Japan was to stop dumpingsemiconductors in world markets and to open its own market toU.S.-made semiconductors.    In return, the U.S. Agreed to hold up imposing anti-dumpingduties on Japanese semiconductor shipments.    The United States said that dumping has stopped in the U.S.Market but has continued in third countries, and that theJapanese market remains closed.    The pressure on Reagan to retaliate included a unanimouscall by the Senate last week to impose penalties on Japanesehigh technology products containing semiconductors.    A call for retaliation also came from the semiconductorindustry and from its chief trade union.    U.S. Officials said the most likely move against Japanwould involve duties on semiconductor-based goods, such astelevisions, video cassette recorders and computers. REUTER
JAPAN SETS ASIDE YEN FUNDS TO PREVENT DLR FALL The 50-day provisional 1987/88 budget,adopted today by the government, allows the Finance Ministry toissue up to 14,600 billion yen worth of foreign exchange fundfinancing bills, government sources said.    Foreign exchange dealers said the yen funds would be usedto buy dollars, to prevent a further dollar fall.    The government sources said the amount, covering the first50 days of the year starting April 1, accounts for more than 90pct of the 16,000 billion yen in bills incorporated in the fullbudget. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 700 MLN STG The Bank of England said it forecast ashortage of around 700 mln stg in the money market today.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturingin official hands will drain some 501 mln stg while a rise innote circulation and bankers' balances below target will takeout around 285 mln stg and 45 mln stg respectively.    Partly offsetting these outflows, exchequer transactionswill add some 120 mln stg to the system today. REUTER
 Bank of France buying dollars for yen - banking Japanese primary aluminium imports roseto 98,170 tonnes in February from 91,157 in January and 94,926a year earlier, the Japan Aluminium Federation said.    This brought total imports in 1986/87, ending March 31, to1.09 mln tonnes against 1.25 mln a year earlier.    The February total included 19,102 tonnes from the U.S.Against 16,577 in January and 9,933 a year ago, 24,391 fromAustralia against 19,585 and 21,208, and 12,611 from Indonesiaagainst 5,891 and 16,601. REUTER
 Bundesbank bought dollars against yen in Frankfurt - Provisional consolidated net attributable profit 242.1 mlnfrancs vs 240.1 mln.    Investments 318 mln vs 317 mln.    Dividend on ordinary shares 45 francs vs 42 francs.    Dividend on priority shares 51 francs vs 48 francs. REUTER
ITALIAN 1987 GDP GROWTH FORECAST AT THREE PCT Italy's gross domestic product (GDP) willgrow three pct in real terms this year and 2.7 pct in 1988,said economic information company Data Resources Europe Inc(DRI).    Michel Girardin, DRI Europe's senior economist, said at aconference that Italian GDP growth this year "will be mainlydriven by consumption and especially investment."    Girardin said the driving force behind GDP growth next yearwill shift from domestic demand to exports as a result ofexpected depreciation of the lira against the major currencies.    Italy's budget ministry said yesterday that GDP rose 2.7pct in real terms in 1986.    DRI forecast that inflation, which was an average 6.3 pctin 1986, will be under five pct this year and that interestrates should drop two pct.    Girardin said the lira is expected to appreciate 14 pctagainst the dollar this year following last year's 22 pctappreciation. An expected German mark appreciation against thedollar means that the lira should lose about six pct of itsvalue relative to the German currency, he said.    DRI estimates that foreign demand for Italian productsshould grow by a 3.2 pct this year following last year's 6.2pct increase. REUTER
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - DUTCH EXCHANGE RATE POLICY Recent slackness on Dutch capitalmarkets has led some bankers to question the Central Bank'spolicy of pegging the guilder firmly to the West German markand to ask for more flexiblility in exchange rate policy.    While agreeing with the Bank's commitment to defend theguilder strongly, some bankers want the Bank to make more useof the range within which the guilder and the mark canfluctuate against each other in the European Monetary System(EMS).    Roelof Nelissen, chairman of Amsterdam-Rotterdam Bank NV(Amro) said the Central Bank's policy was overcautious.    "I would like to suggest that the Bank use more freely therange given to the guilder in the EMS," Nelissen said at thepresentation of Amro's 1986 annual report last week.    Within the EMS, the mark is allowed to fluctuate againstthe guilder between 110.1675 and 115.235 guilders per 100.    The Central Bank maintains a stricter policy and tries tokeep the mark below the 113.00 guilders per 100. It regards astable exchange rate as its main target, using interest ratepolicies to influence the exchange rate.    The preference of exchange rate goals above interest rateaims goes almost undisputed in the Netherlands.    Critics say the Bank keeps the reins unnecessarily short.    Rabobank Nederland said in its latest economic bulletin: "Bymaintaining the 113.00 limit, the Central Bank raises theexpectation it will always intervene above that level. If itsuddenly needs more flexibility it will find it very hard toobtain."    Amro's Nelissen said relatively small changes in interestrates and exchange rates could cause substantial flows ofsecurities business and sharp fluctuations on the Dutch capitalmarket. Large interest rate changes were often needed to bringabout small changes in the guilder/mark exchange rate, headded.    Unlike Amro, Algemene Bank Nederland NV (ABN) says this isa price the Dutch have to pay. It fully agrees with the CentralBank's policy, director-general Julien Geertsema told Reuters,noting a 1983 decision not to revalue the guilder fully withthe mark in the EMS hurt confidence in the Dutch currency.    "It is a pity we need such a wide interest rate differencebetween West Germany to maintain the exchange rate," he added.    Interest rate differentials between West Germany and theNetherlands are the main factors that trigger capital flowsbetween the two countries, as the economic performance of thetwo does not differ much, economists said.    Data on 1986 capital flows between West Germany and theNetherlands have not yet been released, but in 1985 theyaccounted for only 10 pct of total trade flows between the twocountries, put at 110 billion guilders for 1986 by theDutch-German Chamber of Commerce earlier this month.    Economists say capital flows are more sensitive to interestand exchange rates.    West Germany is the Netherlands' largest single tradingpartner, taking 28 pct of Dutch exports and providing 26 pct ofimports in the last quarter of 1986, Central Bureau ofStatistics figures show.    At the moment, the rates for three month euromark depositstrade around 4.0 pct while the same deposits in guilders have arate of around 5-7/16 pct.    Amro bank argues that the Dutch real interest rate willeven rise further because of expectations of deflation here in1987, contrasting with slight inflation in West Germany.    In the Netherlands, the cost of living is expected todecrease by 1.5 pct at a GNP growth rate of two pct, the DutchCentral Planning Agency said in its 1987 forecast last month.German GNP is seen rising by two to 2.5 pct, but with inflationbetween zero and 1.0 pct, according to most German forecasts.    But despite this upward push on real Dutch rates, moneydealers do not expect the Central Bank to cut official ratesindependently without prior moves by the Bundesbank.    Following the West German interest rate cuts on January 22,the Dutch Central Bank did not lower its rates but set a 0.5pct lower tariff for special advances and abandoned its creditsurcharge. Most traders were surprised by this move as they hadexpected the Bank to follow suit unconditionally, they said.    The Bank said it lowered the rate with the largest impacton the money market as far as the exchange rate permitted.    While not entirely unsympathetic to critics of itspolicies, the Central Bank keeps its grip firm and the rangenarrow.    "The European Monetary System is not only a relationshipbetween the guilder and the mark. Many times widening of themargin between the two would implicate we have to buy or selllarge amounts of a third currency," Central Bank vice-directorJan-Hendrik Du Marchie Sarvaas said.    "If we allowed the guilder to become a little cheaper, themarkets would start to believe it was weak. We don't want that.We want to make clear that the guilder is just as strong as themark," he said. REUTER
BANK OF SPAIN SUSPENDS ASSISTANCE The Bank of Spain suspended its dailymoney market assistance obliging borrowers to take funds fromthe second window, where on Wednesday rates were raised to 16pct compared with 14 pct for normal overnight funds.    Money market sources said in view of high borrower demandthe suspension was likely to remain in effect until April 3,the start of the next 10-day accounting period for reserverequirements. The suspension comes after the Bank yesterdaygave 1,145 billion pesetas assistance, a record high for thisyear.    It said 90 billion pesetas was provided at the secondwindow. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 265 MLN STG ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it provided themoney market with 265 mln stg in assistance this morning.    This compares with the bank's estimate of the shortage inthe system of 750 mln stg, earlier revised up from 700 mln.    The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprising119 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 144 mln stg in band twoat 9-13/16 pct and two mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES TO STEM DOLLAR FALL The Bank of Japan intervened in themarket to keep the dollar above 149 yen but the unit was understrong selling pressure by an investment trust, dealers said.    The central bank stepped into the market when the dollarfell towards 149.00 yen, but a trust bank aggressively solddollars to hedge currency risks, and the Bank intervened againat 149.00, they said.    The trust bank apparently changed its earlier view that thedollar would rise and started selling relatively large amountsof dollars, pushing the unit down to 148.80 at one point,brokers said.    One dealer estimated that the Bank bought 400 mln to 500mln dlrs as it tried to keep the U.S. Currency above 149 yen. REUTER
BANK OF FRANCE AGAIN BUYING DOLLARS, SOURCES SAY The Bank of France intervened in theParis foreign exchange market this morning for the thirdsuccessive day, banking sources said.    Like yesterday, it bought dollars and sold yen in smallamounts, they said.    One dealer said it was seen in the market twice in earlydealing, buying five mln dlrs each time.    Other dealers also reported small-scale intervention tostabilise the dollar after aggressive selling overnight inTokyo, where the Bank of Japan also intervened again.    The dollar steadied at around 6.0650/0700 francs aftereasing in early trading to 6.0615/35 from an opening 6.0700/50.It closed yesterday at 6.0800/30.    One major french bank said it bought 10 mln dlrs for thecentral bank, selling yen, within a trading range of 148.20/30yen to the dollar, compared with yesterday's 149.28 rate atwhich intervention was carried out here.    The yen later firmed to around 147.90/148.00. Reuter
BUNDESBANK BOUGHT DOLLARS AGAINST YEN, DEALERS SAY The Bundesbank entered the openmarket in the late morning to buy dollars against yen inconcert with the Bank of France, dealers said.    The Bundesbank came into the market when the dollar wasaround 148.10 yen just after it had fallen below 148 to touch147.80 at 1027 GMT. The move had little effect, with the dollarstill testing 148 yen ahead of the official fixing.    Dealers said the intervention was for fairly small amounts,in contrast to the Bundesbank's activity on Wednesday whendealers reported it bought about 100 mln dlrs.    The Bundesbank had no comment. REUTER
JAPAN SETS ASIDE YEN FUNDS TO PREVENT DLR FALL The 50-day provisional 1987/88 budget,adopted today by the government, allows the Finance Ministry toissue up to 14,600 billion yen worth of foreign exchange fundfinancing bills, government sources said.    Foreign exchange dealers said the yen funds would be usedto buy dollars, to prevent a further dollar fall.    The government sources said the amount, covering the first50 days of the year starting April 1, accounts for more than 90pct of the 16,000 billion yen in bills incorporated in the fullbudget. REUTER
BANK OF FRANCE BUYS DOLLARS AT PARIS FIXING - Three Dutch computer leasing firmsare charging the Dutch unit of International Business MachinesCorp <IBM.N> with unfair trading practices, saying its pricesundercut the leasing market, a court spokesman said.    He said the three firms started summary proceedings in theAmsterdam district court yesterday against IBM Nederland NV andits leasing finance subsidiary IBM Nederland Financieringen BV.A verdict is expected on April 16.    The three firms suing IBM here are IBL Holland BV, ICAEurope BV and Econocom Nederland BV. An IBM Nederland spokesmansaid the firm denied the charges but declined further comment. REUTER
 swiss national bank says bought dollars aga <Union Miniere SA> said in a statementthat it has acquired an eight pct interest in PancontinentalMining Ltd <PANA.S> for a sum equivalent to 1.2 billion Belgianfrancs.    Pancontinental operates gold and coal mines in Australiaand natural gas and oil fields in Canada.    Union Miniere said the location of its interest within thePancontinental group will be decided later. It did notelaborate.    Union Miniere is a wholly owned subsidiary of SocieteGenerale de Belgique <BELB.BR>. REUTER
SWISS NATIONAL BANK SAYS IT BOUGHT DOLLARS The Swiss National Bank bought dollarsagainst yen today, a spokesman for the bank said.    He declined to say how many dollars the bank bought or whenprecisely it intervened.    Swiss foreign exchange dealers described the NationalBank's purchases as modest, perhaps amounting to no more than20 or 30 mln dlrs.    The Bank of France, which was reported buying dollarsagainst the yen in Paris, had made inquiries with Swiss banksas well, and the Bundesbank had also intervened. Bank of Japandollar purchases today were perhaps 1.2 to 1.5 billion dlrs.    Dealers said this tended to confirm the market's impressionthat major industrial countries had agreed at the Paris meetingon an effective floor for the dollar of 148 yen, and the marketseemed ready to test it.    Commercial clients were also selling dollars against theyen as the end of the Japanese fiscal year on March 31 drewcloser. Today's dealings in spot currencies are booked forMarch 31.    One dealer said he had the feeling Japanese companies hadbeen asked by the Bank of Japan not to sell dollars at thispoint, but some, while sticking to the letter of that request,were offering dollars forward today, rather than lose out ifthe dollar fell further.    The run on the dollar against the yen came in a marketthinned by the absence of many dealers for a Forex Club meetingin Hamburg.    Trading was, in fact, rather light against currencies otherthan the yen, the dollar holding little changed through theday.    The market now expected the U.S. Federal Reserve tointervene in support of the dollar. "But they will probably doit only half-heartedly, so I don't think it will matter toomuch on rates," one dealer said. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 663 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it gave themoney market a further 663 mln stg assistance in the afternoonsession. This takes the Bank's total assistance so far today to928 mln stg and compares with its forecast shortage which itearlier revised up to 850 mln stg from 750 mln.    The central bank purchased bills in band one at 9-7/8 pctcomprising 267 mln stg bank bills, four mln stg local authoritybills and one mln stg treasury bills. It also bought 378 mlnstg bank bills and 13 mln stg of treasury bills in band two at9-13/16 pct. REUTER
AUSTRIA DOES NOT INTERVENE TO SUPPORT DOLLAR The Austrian National Bank did notintervene on the foreign exchange markets today to support thedollar, deputy banking department chief Herbert Danzinger toldReuters.    He denied a suggestion by a dealer at one Vienna bank thatthe National Bank had sold marks to support the U.S. Currency.    Senior dealers at Creditanstalt and Girozentrale, Austria'stwo largest banks, said they would have been aware of anyNational Bank intervention. Any dollar purchases by the Banktoday were for purely day-to-day purposes, they said. REUTER
DEALERS SAY FED INTERVENED BUYING DOLLARS IN U.S. U.S. dealers said the New York FederalReserve Bank has intervened in the foreign exchange markettoday buying dollars against yen.    Fed officials do not comment on such intervention, butdealers said it appeared that the Fed had intervened when thedollar reached 147.50 yen in New York.    The dollar subsequently hovered at 147.55/65 yen.    Dealers said they were uncertain about the size of theintervention, but some said it was only for a small amount.They were also uncertain whether the Fed intervened on its ownaccount, or if it executed orders for the Bank of Japan. Reuter
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange one billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.    Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-1/8 pct whenthe Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves tothe banking system. Reuter
TALKING POINT/GOLD The price of gold bullion and shareprices of North American gold stocks are benefiting fromcontinued weakness in the U.S. dollar, analysts said.    "There's been a tug of war between the (currency)speculators and the central banks over the U.S. dollar and itlooks like the game has gone to the speculators," said John Ingat Maison Placements Canada Inc.    The dollar remained close to post-World War II lows todayagainst the Japanese yen despite buying by several centralbanks, including the Federal Reserve, dealers said.    A drop in the dollar means uncertainty and gold is thetraditional hedge against uncertainty, Ing noted.    Another analyst, Richard Cohen at Brown Baldwin Nisker Ltd,noted that "a lot of foreign investors are holding U.S. dollars.If they see they are losing money, they move back into gold."    A dollar decline also has inflationary implications, Ingsaid, adding that Maison Placements sees inflation rising to afour pct annual rate from the current level of about three pct.    Ing predicts gold will peak at 510 dlrs this year from itscurrent level of about 416 dlrs per ounce. Cohen sees anaverage price of 425 dlrs, and another analyst, MichaelPickens, at Yorkton Securities, puts the average at 450 dlrs,with a possible spike above 500 dlrs.    However, gold stocks in the U.S. and Canada have risen farfaster in recent months than the price of the metal itself,causing concern among analysts that a correction lies somewherein the future. But for now, all analysts say there is no signthe buying pressure is slowing down. "The stocks have run anincredible way," Cohen said.    On U.S. markets today, ASA Ltd <ASA> rose 4-1/8 to 61-1/2,Campbell Red Lake Mines <CRK> was up 1-3/8 and Newmont Gold<NGC> increased 1-1/2 to 31-1/4.    The Toronto Stock Exchange gold index today was up 268points at 8067.90. Hemlo Gold gained 1-1/4 at 26-3/4, LACMinerals was up 1-5/8 at 41, Placer Development rose 1-1/4 at43-3/8 and Lacana Mining gained 1 at 18.    Ing pointed out that the TSE gold index has gained 51 pctsince December 31, 1986, while the price of bullion hasincreased six pct. "Canadian golds have been the top performingindex this year," he noted.    In the U.S., there is "too much money chasing too fewstocks," Pickens said. And many investing institutions such aspension funds and insurance companies still have excess cash,he added.    Cohen also noted that today's silver price break throughsix dlrs an ounce indicates small investors are entering theprecious metals market and he expects the ratio between goldand silver prices to narrow. Reuter
TAIWAN TO STUDY SUSPENDING FOREX CONTROLS Premier Yu Kuo-Hua ordered financialofficials to quicken the pace of relaxing foreign exchangecontrols and study the possibility of suspending the controls,a cabinet statement said.    The statement quoted Yu as telling Finance Ministy andCentral Bank officials the relaxation was needed to help reduceTaiwan's surging foreign exchange reserves, which reached arecord 53 billion U.S. Dollars this month.    Finance Minister Robert Chien told reporters his ministryand the Central Bank would work jointly on new measures to easethe controls, but he did not give details.    Yu said the government could maintain the framework of theforeign exchange controls while finding ways to ease them. Thecontrols would be used during emergency.    Taiwan's reserves have resulted largely from its tradesurplus, which hit 15.6 billion dlrs in 1986 and 10.6 billionin 1985. About 95 pct of the surplus was from Taiwan's tradewith the United States, according to official figures.    But he said that while easing the controls would helpreduce the reserves, it would not do so substantially in ashort time.    Economists and bankers said the new decision resulted fromgrowing pressure from the United States, Taiwan's largesttrading partner, which buys almost half the island's exports.    Lu Ming-Jen, economic professor at Soochow University, toldReuters: "The decision came a little bit late. But it was betterthan never."    Ko Fei-Lo, Vice President at First Commercial Bank, saidthe government should rapidly relax its foreign exchangecontrols and open its market wider to help balance trade withits trading partners, especially the United States.    "The liberalisation in both imports and foreign exchangecontrols will not only help our trading partners, but also helpour own economic problems," he said.    He said the mounting foreign exchange reserveshelped boostTaiwan's money supply by 48.22 pct in the year to end-February. REUTER
U.S. BANKER PREDICTS FURTHER DOLLAR FALL THIS YEAR A leading U.S. Banker said the dollarwas likely to fall another five to 10 pct this year and animprovement in the huge American trade deficit would be onlytemporary at current world exchange rate levels.    Kurt Viermetz, Worldwide Treasurer of <Morgan GuarantyTrust Co>, told Arab currency traders meeting here that thesteady depreciation of the dollar had not gone far enough torein in U.S. Deficits on a lasting basis.    Speaking at the 14th annual congress of the InterarabCambist Association, Viermetz said an agreement reached lastmonth among major industrial nations to steady the dollararound current levels left many questions unanswered.    "I cannot see any chance for a real turnaround (rise) in thedollar," Viermetz said. "I believe there is room for a furtherfall of five to 10 per cent in 1987."    The United States, West Germany, Japan, France, GreatBritain and Canada -- G-6 -- agreed in Paris in late Februaryto stabilise major currencies around current levels.    The accord came after months of transatlantic argument,with Tokyo and Bonn claiming Washington's policy of talking thedollar lower had made life impossible for West German andJapanese exporters.    The Paris accord also brought a pause to the continuedslide of the dollar engineered by a meeting in New York inSeptember 1985 when industrial nations agreed to depress thevalue of the currency to help redress global trade imbalances.    But Viermetz said Morgan Guaranty's economic models showedthat with no further change in exchange rates -- and continuedsluggish growth in West Germany and Japan -- the U.S. Tradedeficit would improve only temporarily.    He said the deficit might fall to 145 billion dlrs thisyear from 165 billion in 1986 and further improve to 120billion in 1988 but by 1990, it would be back around 160billion dlrs.    "This is clearly unacceptable for the monetary authoritiesand politicians in Washington," he said.    Viermetz said it was only natural that markets shouldattempt to test the credibility of the Paris accord, struckwhen the dollar was trading at about 1.83 marks and 152.50 yen.    Immediately before the historic 1985 New York agreement or"Plaza Accord," the dollar had been trading at 2.84 marks and 240yen.    Viermetz said he believed major nations in Paris wanted tosee the dollar hold within a "loose range" of 1.75 to 1.90 marksand 145 to 155 yen, with any attempt to push the U.S. Currencylower being countered by central bank intervention.    The dollar ended in New York yesterday at 147.15/25 yen --its lowest level against the Japanese currency in roughly 40years. It closed at 1.8160/70 marks.    Viermetz also said he did not see the U.S. Federal fundsrate falling below six pct for fear of provoking anuncontrolled fall in the dollar.    But at the same time, worries about the international debtcrisis would mean there was little chance of a rise above 6-3/4pct since this would increase loan costs to the third world.    The Middle East foreign exchange conference brings togethermore than 200 traders and bank treasury chiefs from the Arabworld and Arab banks in European and U.S. Financial centres.    Formal discussions, which end today, have also centred onthe role of Arab banks in world financial markets, with bankersurging them to adapt to a new global trend towardssecuritisation of  business.    Hikmat Nashashibi, President of the Arab BankersAssociation, said Arab banks have to shake off their oldmentality of commercial banking and concentrate more oninvestment banking. REUTER
OFFICIAL WANTS ARAB FUND TO HELP LEBANESE POUND Lebanese central bank Vice GovernorMeguerditch Bouldikian called for the establishment of an Arabfund to assist the Lebanese pound, which has lost more than 80pct of its value against the dollar since January 1986.    Bouldikian told an Arab exchange dealers conference thebank would continue to take measures to defend the currency.    But he said Lebanon needed foreign support for itswar-battered economy now more than ever before. "We expect acommon effort between the central bank and Arab central banksand monetary authorities to create an Arab fund to support andpreserve the value of the currency when needed," he said.    Twelve years of civil war have devastated productivesectors of the Lebanese economy and created gaping trade andbudget deficits.    Bouldikian said recent government measures had succeeded inreducing demand for imports and increasing exports. "These areencouraging factors, but the war has not ended yet," he said.    "We believe that with a just political solution acceptableto all sides, confidence will return and this will benefit theLebanese pound and Lebanon."    In the meantime, he said the central bank had four maingoals:    1) to use surplus liquidity to finance the budget deficit    2) to increase the role of commercial banks and non-bankfinancing institutions in financing the deficit    3) to limit the transfer of Lebanese pounds into foreigncurrency deposits    4) to protect the financial health of commercial banks. REUTER
CHINA POSTPONES PLAN TO SCRAP PARALLEL CURRENCY Chinese Vice-Premier Tian Jiyun saidplans to scrap the country's parallel currency, ForeignExchange Certificates (FECs), had been postponed due toobjections from foreign businessmen and others.    But Tian told a news conference the Chinese governmentstill considered FECs unsatisfactory.    Asked about the current state of plans to abolish the FECs,Tian said: "We have decided to postpone the question. As towhether it will be done in the future, it will be doneaccording to the evolution of the situation."    He said many people, including foreign businessmen, hadraised objections to the plan to abolish the certificates, andadded: "It is rather complicated."    The FECs were introduced in 1980 for use by foreigners inChina. But they now circulate widely among local residents andthere is a big black market in the currency, though it istheoretically at par with the ordinary Chinese currency,renminbi.    Tian said the government still considered that the FECs had"many demerits and negative influences."    Bank of China President Wang Deyan told Reuters earlierthis month that he thought it unlikely that the certificateswould be scrapped this year.    Western diplomats and economists have said the Chineseauthorities are having trouble finding a suitable alternative.    Vice-Premier Yao Yilin announced at a similar pressconference last year that the FECs would be abolished, sayingthe government had decided it was ideologically unacceptable tohave two currencies circulating in China at the same time. REUTER
ARAB BANKER SAYS TOO SOON FOR SINGLE CURRENCY Gulf Arab states must coordinateeconomic policies more closely before moving towards their goalof a unified currency system, the President of the Arab BankersAssociation said.    Hikmat Nashashibi told a news conference at the end of anArab currency traders meeting: "We have to start withcoordination of fiscal policies as a prerequisite for a commonsystem of currencies ... There is quite a substantial way to goyet."    He said only then would a unified Gulf currency system be aplausible project.    The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council -- SaudiArabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Oman, Qatar and the United ArabEmirates --  have held a series of meetings this year toexamine linking their currencies to a single peg in a systemwhich bankers say could be modelled on the European MonetarySystem (EMS).    At present, five currencies are linked either officially orin practice to the U.S. Dollar, while the Kuwaiti dinar ispegged to a trade-weighted basket of currencies.    A common currency system or EMS-style "grid" would, intheory, foster regional trade by providing a basis for stableexchange rates, but Nashashibi said inter-Arab trade is at avery low ebb and capital flows between Gulf states remainsmall. "Capital markets in the Arab world are still in theirinfancy," he said.    Nashashibi said lack of experience among Arab banks, apaucity of financial instruments and a legal framework thatoften does not recognise the western banking concept ofinterest have hampered the growth of Arab markets. REUTER
ITALY RELAXES RESTRICTIONS ON LIRA IMPORTS Italy is to modify restrictions limitingthe amount of lira cash that can be brought in and out of thecountry, the Foreign Trade Ministry said.    A statement said Foreign Trade Minister Rino Formica hassigned a measure lifting currency regulations that currentlyimpose a 400,000 lire limit on the value of lira bank notesthat can be brought into Italy. It did not say when the newmeasure would come into force.    In future, there will be no limit to the amount of lirabank notes both residents and non-residents can bring intoItaly.    The statement said the 400,000 lire limit would remain forItalian residents wishing to take cash out of the country, butnon-residents could re-export lira cash if they madeappropriate declarations at customs points.    It said the lifting of the restrictions "reinforces theinternational status of the lira and meets the requirementsexpressed several times by foreign exchange dealers." REUTER
ARAB FOREX ASSOCIATION ELECTS NEW CHAIRMAN The Inter-Arab Cambist Association(ICA) elected Abdullah al-Dakhil of Kuwait's Burgan Bank itsnew chairman, succeeding Hani Ramadan of Beirut Riyad Bank fora three-year term, ICA officials said    The annual meeting elected three Vice-Chairmen -- EzzedineSaidane of Banque Internationale Arabe de Tunis, Mohammed Osmanof Societe Bancaire du Liban and Walid Nasouli of MorganGuaranty Trust Co of New York.    Ibrahim Buhindi of the Saudi National Commercial Bank inBahrain and Imad Bata of Finance and Credit Corp of Jordan wereelected Secretary and Treasurer, respectively. REUTER
DOLLAR OPENS AT A RECORD LOW FOR TOKYO AT 145.80 YEN - The Bank of Japan has already purchasedmore than one billion dlrs in intervention since the openingand continues to buy the U.S. Currency, dealers said.    The central bank was supporting the dollar against the yenamid heavy selling pressure from investment trusts andsecurities houses which had pushed the dollar as low as 144.75yen earlier this morning, they said.    The dollar recovered slightly from the intervention and wastrading around 145.00, they added.    It had opened in Tokyo at 145.80 yen. REUTER
Sumita says he does not repeat not expect dollar to fall  Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumitasaid he does not expect the dollar to remain unstable and fallfurther.    He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament thatthe Bank of Japan would continue to cooperate closely withother major nations to stabilize exchange rates.    The central bank has been keeping extremely careful watchon exchange rate movements since last week, he said.    He said the dollar would not continue to fall because ofunderlying market concern about the rapid rise of the yen.    Sumita said the currency market has been reacting tooverseas statements and to trade tension between Japan and theU.S. Over semiconductors.    The yen's tendency to rise will prevent Japan fromexpanding domestic demand and undertaking necessary economicrestructuring, he said. REUTER
DLR FALLS ON FEAR TOKYO WON'T HIKE DEMAND-MIYAZAWA Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa saidthat the dollar's drop today to 145 yen is partly attributableto the perception inside and outside Japan that the country hasfailed to fulfill its promise to expand domestic demand.    He told a Lower House budget committee in Parliament thatit was natural for other nations to think that Japan is notdoing enough because of the delay in the passage of the 1987/88budget.    The budget has been delayed by opposition boycotts ofParliament to protest government plans for a new sales tax. REUTER
JAPAN CAREFULLY CONSIDERING MONEY POLICY -- SUMITA Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumitasaid the central bank will carefully consider its monetarypolicy in light of the recent sharp fall of the dollar.    Asked if the Bank of Japan will consider a further cut inits discount rate, he said he now thinks the bank will have tocarefully consider its future money policy.    He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament thatcredit conditions have been eased by the five discount ratecuts by Japan since the beginning of last year.    Japan must now be especially careful about a flare-up ininflation, with money supply growth accelerating, he said.    Sumita said the central bank would continue to make ajudgement on monetary policies while watching consumer prices,exchange rates and economic and financial conditions both inand outside Japan.    Asked if the September 1985 Plaza agreement was a failurebecause the dollar had fallen too far, Sumita said he stillthought the pact was a good one in the sense that it hadcorrected the overvaluation of the dollar. But the Plaza accorddid not set any target for the dollar's fall, he said.    The dollar's steep fall stems from the market's belief thatthe trade imbalance will continue to expand, he said. REUTER
Nakasone says major nations committed in Paris to stable dlr above Japanese vehicle exports fell 8.2 pct inFebruary from January to 530,066, the Japan AutomobileManufacturers Association said.    February exports fell 6.8 pct from a year earlier after a6.8 pct year-on-year rise in January, the first growth sinceJune 1986, when they rose 4.4 pct from a year earlier.    February exports included 361,285 cars, down 6.3 pct from ayear earlier, 165,770 trucks, down 8.6 pct, and 3,011 buses, up51.4 pct.    Exports to the U.S. Fell to 226,942 in February from259,272 a year earlier, while those to the European Communityrose to 141,095 from 121,050.    The EC figure included 63,387 vehicles to West Germany, upfrom 41,821, but exports to Britain fell to 20,554 from 28,536.    Shipments to South-east Asia fell to 33,957 from 41,960 andthose to the Middle East fell to 15,828 from 25,278.    Japan's motorcycle exports rose 18 pct from January to177,115 in February, but fell 25.9 pct from a year earlier, the12th consecutive year-on-year drop. REUTER
Miyazawa says major nations have intervened aggressively since dlr fell below U.S. roastings of green coffee in theweek ended March 21 were about 250,000 (60-kilo) bags,including that used for soluble production, compared with195,000 bags in the corresponding week of last year and about300,000 bags in the week ended March 14, George Gordon Patonand Co Inc reported.    It said cumulative roastings for calendar 1987 now total3,845,000 bags, compared with 4,070,000 bags by this time lastyear. Reuter
JAPAN ISOLATED, YEN RISES, WORLD FEELS CHEATED Japan is becoming dangerously isolatedagain as the U.S. And Europe feel they have been cheated byJapanese promises to switch from export to domestic-led growth,officials and businessmen from around the world said.    As the dollar today slipped to a record low below 145 yen,making Japanese exporters and holders of dollar investmentsgrit their teeth harder, Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa saidthere was a perception Japan had reneged on its promise.    The problem goes deep and centres on misunderstandings byboth sides over the key Maekawa report of April, last year.    The document was prepared by a private committee formed byPrime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone and led by former Bank ofJapan head Haruo Maekawa. It recommended that to stop frictiondue to its large trade surpluses, Japan must "make a historicaltransformation in its traditional policies on economicmanagement and the nation's lifestyle. There can be no furtherdevelopment for Japan without this transformation."    Americans and Europeans took the report to heart and havelooked in vain for clear signs of this historic change. But theJapanese remain doubtful about the short, or even medium termprospects of totally transforming their economic habits.    The bubble of frustration against what appears as Japaneseprevarication burst last week. The U.S. Said it intended toraise tariffs of as much as 300 mln dlrs on Japanese exports tothe U.S. On the grounds Japan had abrogated a bilateralsemiconductor pact.    British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher threatened toblock Japanese financial firms from London after the Japaneseplaced what the British say are restrictive conditions on a bidby British firm Cable and Wireless to join a domestictelecommunications joint venture.    On Friday, European currency dealers said European centralbanks, annoyed at restrictive Japanese trade practises, mightleave Japan alone to intervene to staunch the rise of the yen.    Eishiro Saito, head of top Japanese business groupKeidanren, spotted the dangers inherent in such contradictoryviews last November when he visited the European Community."Related to this matter of (trade) imbalance, the point that Ifound to be of great cause for alarm during this trip to Europewas the excessive degree of hope placed by the Europeans in theresults of the Maekawa report," he said.    "We explained that the process of restructuring the economyaway from its dependence on exports toward a balance betweendomestic and external demand...Would take time," Saito said.    Saito's words were ignored. In February, EC IndustrialPolicy Director Heinrich von Moltke came to Japan and said "Ionly know that your government, under the leadership ofMaekawa, points to restructuring your economy into a lessoutward looking, more inward looking one. It is the Maekawareport which has attracted the most attention in Europe."    And Europeans and Americans want quick action. "A far betteranswer than protectionism would be structural change within theJapanese economy, the kind suggested by the Maekawa report. Andwe hope to see changes occur in the near future," visitingChairman of General Motors Roger Smith said in March.    Such expectations are now ingrained, which was partly thefault of Nakasone, who heralded Maekawa's report as a sea ofchange in Japanese affairs, said U.S. Officials.    Months before the report was issued, U.S. And EC businessleaders met their Japanese colleagues to discuss the tradeproblem.    "We are more anxious than ever that the new approach of theMaekawa committee does lead to speedy and effective action,"said EC Industrial Union leader Lord Ray Pennock.    "The important implication of the Maekawa report is that itis finally looking to let Japanese enjoy the fruits of theirlabour," said Philip Caldwell, Senior Managing Director ofShearson Lehman Brothers.    Contents of the report were leaded well ahead of issuance.    Japanese officials say they are implementing the report asfast as they can, said a European ambassador who has travelledthe country asking about this issue.    He said People mentioned many things in line with thespirit of the report, including restructuring of the coal andsteel industries.    A major misunderstanding is that the private report wasgovernment policy. Europeans are confused about this,underlined by von Moltke's reference to the "leadership" of theMaekawa report. Even so, Japanese officials point to lastSeptember's government programme of new economic measures."Without endorsing the report as policy, officials point outthat the government has put its signature to a programmedesigned to implement the report," the ambassador said. REUTER
H.K. DEALERS SAY NAKASONE G-6 COMMENT TOO LATE Remarks by Japan's Prime MinisterYasuhiro Nakasone that last month's G-6 meeting agreed tostabilize the dollar above 150 yen have come too late toinfluence currency trading, dealers said.    After Nakasone's statement the dollar rose to 146.40/50 yenfrom an initial low of 144.20/40 and New York's Friday finishof 147.15/25. But the rebound was largely on short-covering,they said.    "I think (Nakasone's) desperate," said a U.S. Bank foreignexchange manager.    Nakasone told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliamentthat Japan and other industrialized nations committedthemselves in Paris last month to stabilize the dollar above150 yen.    Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told the same committeethat the six - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. AndWest Germany - had intervened aggressively since the dollarfell below 150 yen.    "His (Nakasone) remarks should have been made and shouldhave had a bigger influence when the dollar was still above 150yen," said P.S. Tam of Morgan Guaranty Trust.    Tam said the dollar has hit short-term chart targets  andis likely to rebound. But he warned of another dip to below 145yen.    Dealers said the worsening trade relations between the U.S.And Japan will continue to depress the dollar.    The trade issue has now become a political issue since theReagan Administration is facing uproar in Congress overth3pYgks in cutting the country's 169.8 billion dlr tradedeficit, they said. REUTER
BAHRAIN INTRODUCES NEW MONEY MARKET REGIME Bahrain is introducing a new domesticmoney market regime to provide dinar liquidity aid centred onthe island's newly launched treasury bill programme.    The Bahrain Monetary Agency has issued a circular to allcommercial banks outlining a new policy from April 1 whichgives liquidity aid through sale and repurchase agreements intreasury bills, or through discounting them.    The circular, released officially to Reuters, said currentarrangements for providing liquidity aid will no longer bevalid except "in quite exceptional circumstances."    Under the current system, the agency provides the island's20 commercial banks with dinar liquidity by means of short-termswaps against U.S. Dollars and, less frequently, by short-termloans secured against government development bonds.    "The agency considers that it is now appropriate to replacethese operations with short-term assistance based on Governmentof Bahrain treasury bills," the circular to banks states.    The agency said it will repurchase treasury bills with asimultaneous agreement to resell them to the same bank at ahigher price which will reflect an interest charge.    The agency said it envisages the repurchase agreements willnormally be for a period of seven days.    Bahrain launched a weekly tender for two mln dinars of91-day treasury bills in mid-December last year and has sinceraised a total of 26 mln dinars through the programme.    Bahrain's commercial banks are currently liquid and havebeen making little use of the traditional dollar swaps offeredby the agency. But banking sources said the new regime fromApril 1 will mean banks cannot afford not to hold treasurybills in case they need funds from the central bank.    Banking sources said more than half of the 20 banks holdtreasury bills, although the need by others to take up papercould increase demand at weekly tenders and push down allottedyields slightly.    Last week's yield was six pct, although the programme hadstarted at the end of last year with rates as low as 5.60 pct.    Banking sources said the cost of liquidity throughrepurchase accords will not differ much from that on dollarswaps. But a bank using dollars to obtain liquidity wouldforesake interest on the U.S. Currency while the underlyingtreasury bill investment is unaffected in a repurchase accord. REUTER
BANK OF ENGLAND FORECASTS SURPLUS IN MONEY MARKET The Bank of England said it forecast aliquidity surplus of around 100 mln stg in the money markettoday.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, exchequertransactions will add some 985 mln stg to the system todaywhile a fall in note circulation and bankers' balances abovetarget will add around 360 mln stg and 110 mln stgrespectively.    Partly offsetting these inflows, bills for repurchase bythe market will drain some 785 mln stg while bills maturing inofficial hands and the treasury bill take-up will remove about546 mln stg. REUTER
INDONESIAN RUPIAH SLIPS AGAINST MARK AND YEN The Indonesian rupiah has held steadysince its 31 pct devaluation against the dollar six months ago,but has slipped against the mark and to a lesser extent againstthe yen, according to central bank figures.    In the past month, the rupiah has fallen five pct againstthe yen. Today's middle rate per 100 yen was 1,129.78 against1,075.20 at end-February and 1,058.6 at devaluation inSeptember.    Bank Indonesia's quoted rate for the dollar, the maincurrency for Indonesia's oil and gas exports, was 1,644.0today, the same rate fixed at the time of devaluation.    The rate for the West German mark was 913.28 today, a sharpdrop from September when it was 786.06.    The British pound has risen to 2,657.93 against 2,429.83.   The value of the rupiah is set daily against a basket ofcurrencies by the central bank.    The rise in the value of the mark and the yen has hitIndonesia by increasing its debt servicing levels. Its totaldisbursed foreign debt is estimated by the World Bank at 37billion dlrs.    Japan is one of Indonesia's key trading partners, takinghalf its oil exports. REUTER
 Miyazawa expects dollar to rebound soon, spokes Quebecor Inc <PQB.A>, the Canadianpublishing concern, is issuing a 60 mln dlr convertible bonddue May 14, 1997 bearing an indicated coupon of 5-3/4 to sixpct, said Merrill Lynch Capital Markets as lead manager.    The issue will be priced to have a conversion premium of 22to 25 pct, with final terms to be set on Monday, April 6. Thecompany's stock last traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange at19-3/8. The securities will be listed in Luxembourg and areavailable in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs.    Fees include a one pct combined management and underwritingand a one pct selling concession. REUTER
PHILADELPHIA EXCHANGE TO EXTEND HOURS FOR ASIA The Philadelphia Stock Exchange (PHLX),a leading trader of currency options, plans to extend itstrading hours to serve Australasian and Far Eastern markets,exchange president Nicholas Giordano said.    He told reporters the PHLX will open a new session between1900 and 2300 hours U.S. EST from the beginning of the thirdquarter this year.    The PHLX is also opening an office in Hong Kong to serveclients in the region and educate financial markets about theadvantages of currency options, Giordano said.    Giordano was in Sydney to start an Asian-Pacific tour byexchange executives promoting the hedging benefits of theexchange-trade currency option market against existingover-the-counter option trading during the local working day.    Currency options pioneered by the PHLX in 1982 had becomean accepted means of hedging against foreign exchange risk andhad grown in popularity, he said.    The PHLX now offered options in eight currencies, includinga new Australian dollar option, and traded an average 42,000contracts daily with underlying open interest of more than 30billion U.S. Dlrs.    Giordano said the exchange had been impressed with theperformance of its Australian dollar contract, which since itsintroduction last year had regularly topped the French franc asthe third most popular traded option, with up to 8,000contracts traded daily.    Having the Philadelphia exchange open during theAsia-Pacific market day would open new hedging opportunities,set a truer level for over-the-counter option trading, increasearbitraging opportunities and give corporations and treasuriesaccess to a currency option market of much greater depth andliquidity with the security of a clearing house, he said. REUTER
MIYAZAWA EXPECTS DOLLAR REBOUND SOON - SPOKESMAN Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawaexpects the dollar to rebound soon, a Ministry spokesman said.    He quoted Miyazawa as telling Japanese reporters that majorindustrial nations are aggressively intervening in currencymarkets worldwide to prevent a dollar free-fall.    The minister believes that market forces will push thedollar back up from its record low of 144.70 yen today,according to the spokesman.    Miyazawa told the Japanese reporters the U.S. Unit fellbecause Japanese investors sold dollars to hedge currency risksbefore the close of the 1986/87 fiscal year on March 31. REUTER
JAPAN CONDUCTS CURRENCY SURVEY OF BIG INVESTORS A Finance Ministry official said theministry has recently conducted a survey on foreign exchangetransactions by institutional investors but declined to say ifit was aimed at moderating their dollar sales.    However, financial market sources said they had heard theministry has asked life insurance and securities firms torefrain from selling dollars, but they were unable to confirmthis directly.    Dealers said life insurance firms were not major sellers ofdollars in recent trading sessions because they had alreadysold them to hedge risks.    Dealers said securities houses and trust banks on the otherhand have aggressively sold the dollar. REUTER
NO INTERVENTION, DOLLAR FIXED AT 1.8063 MARKS The Bundesbank did not intervene asthe dollar was fixed lower at 1.8063 marks after 1.8231 onFriday, dealers said.    Business calmed down after a hectic start, with Europeanoperators sidelined because of uncertainty about the short-termdirection of the dollar, dealers said. "At the moment, all theaction is taking place in New York and Tokyo," one said.    The U.S. Currency traded within a 145 basis point range inEurope, touching a low of 1.7940 and a high of 1.8085 marks.But it remained within a narrow 40 basis point span around1.8050 marks after the first hour of European trading.    Comments by Japanese officials and Bank of Japan dollarsupport had pushed it above 145 yen and 1.80 marks afterfalling as low as 144.50 and 1.7860 respectively in Tokyo. REUTER
BANK OF ENGLAND DOES NOT OPERATE IN MONEY MARKET The Bank of England said it had notoperated in the money market during the morning session.    Earlier, the Bank revised its forecast of the liquidityposition to flat from its original estimate of a 100 mln stgsurplus. REUTER
ASIAN DOLLAR MARKET ASSETS FALL IN JANUARY The gross size of the Asian dollarmarket contracted to 197.2 billion U.S. Dlrs in January, down3.4 billion dlrs from December, reflecting a decline ininterbank activity, the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS)said in its latest monthly bulletin.    The assets stood at 151.7 billion dlrs in January lastyear.    MAS said interbank lending fell in January to 140.9 billiondlrs from 146.6 billion in December but rose from 102.0 billionin january 1986 and interbank deposits to 154.0 billion against159.4 and 117.1 billion, respectively.    Loans to non-bank customers increased to 40.1 billion dlrsin January from 38.7 billion in December and 36.9 billion inJanuary, 1986.    Deposits of non-bank customers also increased in January to34.9 billion from 33.8 billion a month ago and 27.7 billion ayear ago. REUTER
G-6 WANTS TO HOLD DLR ABOVE 150 YEN - NAKASONE Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone saidthat Japan and other industrialized nations committedthemselves in Paris last month to stabilize the dollar above150 yen.    He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament thatthe six nations have taken measures, including marketintervention, to support the dollar above that level.    Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told the same committeethat the six - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. AndWest Germany - had intervened aggressively since the dollarfell below 150 yen.    Miyazawa said major nations are trying hard to stabilizeexchange rates.    Asked if there had been any change in the fundamentals ofeach nation since the February 22 Paris accord, he said he didnot think the fundamentals themselves had changedsubstantially.    But he said the market is sensitively looking at what ishappening in major nations. He did not elaborate.    Miyazawa added that it was difficult to say why there hasbeen such speculative dollar selling in the market. REUTER
MIYAZAWA EXPECTS DOLLAR REBOUND SOON - SPOKESMAN Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawaexpects the dollar to rebound soon, a Ministry spokesman said.    He quoted Miyazawa as telling Japanese reporters that majorindustrial nations are aggressively intervening in currencymarkets worldwide to prevent a dollar free-fall.    The minister believes that market forces will push thedollar back up from its record low of 144.70 yen today,according to the spokesman.    Miyazawa told the Japanese reporters the U.S. Unit fellbecause Japanese investors sold dollars to hedge currency risksbefore the close of the 1986/87 fiscal year on March 31. REUTER
SUMITA SAYS HE DOES NOT EXPECT FURTHER DOLLAR FALL Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumitasaid he does not expect the dollar to remain unstable and fallfurther.    He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament thatthe Bank of Japan would continue to cooperate closely withother major nations to stabilize exchange rates.    The central bank has been keeping extremely careful watchon exchange rate movements since last week, he said.    He said the dollar would not continue to fall because ofunderlying market concern about the rapid rise of the yen.    Sumita said the currency market has been reacting tooverseas statements and to trade tension between Japan and theU.S. over semiconductors.    The yen's tendency to rise will prevent Japan fromexpanding domestic demand and undertaking necessary economicrestructuring, he said. Reuter
DLR FALLS ON FEARS, MIYAZAWA SAYS Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa saidthat the dollar's drop today to 145 yen is partly attributableto the perception inside and outside Japan that the country hasfailed to fulfill its promise to expand domestic demand.    He told a Lower House budget committee in Parliament thatit was natural for other nations to think that Japan is notdoing enough because of the delay in the passage of the 1987/88budget.    The budget has been delayed by opposition boycotts ofParliament to protest government plans for a new sales tax. Reuter
JAPAN ISOLATED, YEN RISES, WORLD FEELS CHEATED Japan is becoming dangerously isolatedagain as the U.S. And Europe feel they have been cheated byJapanese promises to switch from export to domestic-led growth,officials and businessmen from around the world said.    As the dollar today slipped to a record low below 145 yen,making Japanese exporters and holders of dollar investmentsgrit their teeth harder, Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa saidthere was a perception Japan had reneged on its promise.    The problem goes deep and centres on misunderstandings byboth sides over the key Maekawa report of April, last year.    The document was prepared by a private committee formed byPrime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone and led by former Bank ofJapan head Haruo Maekawa. It recommended that to stop frictiondue to its large trade surpluses, Japan must "make a historicaltransformation in its traditional policies on economicmanagement and the nation's lifestyle. There can be no furtherdevelopment for Japan without this transformation."    Americans and Europeans took the report to heart and havelooked in vain for clear signs of this historic change. But theJapanese remain doubtful about the short, or even medium termprospects of totally transforming their economic habits.    The bubble of frustration against what appears as Japaneseprevarication burst last week. The U.S. Said it intended toraise tariffs of as much as 300 mln dlrs on Japanese exports tothe U.S. On the grounds Japan had abrogated a bilateralsemiconductor pact.    British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher threatened toblock Japanese financial firms from London after the Japaneseplaced what the British say are restrictive conditions on a bidby British firm Cable and Wireless to join a domestictelecommunications joint venture.    On Friday, European currency dealers said European centralbanks, annoyed at restrictive Japanese trade practises, mightleave Japan alone to intervene to staunch the rise of the yen.    Eishiro Saito, head of top Japanese business groupKeidanren, spotted the dangers inherent in such contradictoryviews last November when he visited the European Community."Related to this matter of (trade) imbalance, the point that Ifound to be of great cause for alarm during this trip to Europewas the excessive degree of hope placed by the Europeans in theresults of the Maekawa report," he said.    "We explained that the process of restructuring the economyaway from its dependence on exports toward a balance betweendomestic and external demand...Would take time," Saito said.    Saito's words were ignored. In February, EC IndustrialPolicy Director Heinrich von Moltke came to Japan and said "Ionly know that your government, under the leadership ofMaekawa, points to restructuring your economy into a lessoutward looking, more inward looking one. It is the Maekawareport which has attracted the most attention in Europe."    And Europeans and Americans want quick action. "A far betteranswer than protectionism would be structural change within theJapanese economy, the kind suggested by the Maekawa report. Andwe hope to see changes occur in the near future," visitingChairman of General Motors Roger Smith said in March.    Such expectations are now ingrained, which was partly thefault of Nakasone, who heralded Maekawa's report as a sea ofchange in Japanese affairs, said U.S. Officials.    Months before the report was issued, U.S. And EC businessleaders met their Japanese colleagues to discuss the tradeproblem.    "We are more anxious than ever that the new approach of theMaekawa committee does lead to speedy and effective action,"said EC Industrial Union leader Lord Ray Pennock.    "The important implication of the Maekawa report is that itis finally looking to let Japanese enjoy the fruits of theirlabour," said Philip Caldwell, Senior Managing Director ofShearson Lehman Brothers.    Contents of the report were leaded well ahead of issuance.    Japanese officials say they are implementing the report asfast as they can, said a European ambassador who has travelledthe country asking about this issue.    He said People mentioned many things in line with thespirit of the report, including restructuring of the coal andsteel industries.    A major misunderstanding is that the private report wasgovernment policy. Europeans are confused about this,underlined by von Moltke's reference to the "leadership" of theMaekawa report. Even so, Japanese officials point to lastSeptember's government programme of new economic measures."Without endorsing the report as policy, officials point outthat the government has put its signature to a programmedesigned to implement the report," the ambassador said. REUTER
PHILADELPHIA EXCHANGE TO EXTEND HOURS FOR ASIA The Philadelphia Stock Exchange (PHLX),a leading trader of currency options, plans to extend itstrading hours to serve Australasian and Far Eastern markets,exchange president Nicholas Giordano said.    He told reporters the PHLX will open a new session between1900 and 2300 hours U.S. EST from the beginning of the thirdquarter this year.    The PHLX is also opening an office in Hong Kong to serveclients in the region and educate financial markets about theadvantages of currency options, Giordano said.    Giordano was in Sydney to start an Asian-Pacific tour byexchange executives promoting the hedging benefits of theexchange-trade currency option market against existingover-the-counter option trading during the local working day.    Currency options pioneered by the PHLX in 1982 had becomean accepted means of hedging against foreign exchange risk andhad grown in popularity, he said.    The PHLX now offered options in eight currencies, includinga new Australian dollar option, and traded an average 42,000contracts daily with underlying open interest of more than 30billion U.S. Dlrs.    Giordano said the exchange had been impressed with theperformance of its Australian dollar contract, which since itsintroduction last year had regularly topped the French franc asthe third most popular traded option, with up to 8,000contracts traded daily.    Having the Philadelphia exchange open during theAsia-Pacific market day would open new hedging opportunities,set a truer level for over-the-counter option trading, increasearbitraging opportunities and give corporations and treasuriesaccess to a currency option market of much greater depth andliquidity with the security of a clearing house, he said. REUTER
JAPAN CAREFULLY CONSIDERING MONEY POLICY - SUMITA Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumitasaid the central bank will carefully consider its monetarypolicy in light of the recent sharp fall of the dollar.    Asked if the Bank of Japan will consider a further cut inits discount rate, he said he now thinks the bank will have tocarefully consider its future money policy.    He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament thatcredit conditions have been eased by the five discount ratecuts by Japan since the beginning of last year.    Japan must now be especially careful about a flare-up ininflation, with money supply growth accelerating, he said.    Sumita said the central bank would continue to make ajudgement on monetary policies while watching consumer prices,exchange rates and economic and financial conditions both inand outside Japan.    Asked if the September 1985 Plaza agreement was a failurebecause the dollar had fallen too far, Sumita said he stillthought the pact was a good one in the sense that it hadcorrected the overvaluation of the dollar. But the Plaza accorddid not set any target for the dollar's fall, he said.    The dollar's steep fall stems from the market's belief thatthe trade imbalance will continue to expand, he said. Reuter
U.S. APPEARS TO TOLERATE FURTHER DLR DECLINE In a bid to hasten Japan's promiseto speed up its economic growth and open markets to foreigntrade, top U.S. officials appear once again to have signaledtheir tolerance of a lower dollar.    Treasury Secretary James Baker and one of his top aides,Assistant Secretary David Mulford, said last week there was notarget for the dollar, a statement that sent the yen soaringagainst the dollar, despite massive central bank intervention.    "That was no slip of the tongue," said one western monetaryofficial, who asked not to be identified.    For now, the strategy appears to be working. Japaneseofficials said late last week a package to bolster domesticdemand will be ready in early April. Until last week, therewere few indications the package would be ready anytime soon.    The Reagan administration, facing an uproar in Congressover the apparent lack of progress in cutting the 169.8 billiondlr trade deficit, is learning now that to extract results fromJapan, dramatic action is required.    Last week the White House imposed unprecedented tariffs oncertain Japanese electronic goods after Tokyo failed to adhereto a semi-conductor pricing accord between the two countries.    The shift in U.S. strategy, in part designed to appeasemounting Congressional anger over Japanese policies, comes justtwo weeks before industrial nations reconvene here to reviewthe Paris agreement to stabilize currencies.    And news that Japan earned a record 18 billion dlr tradesurplus in the first two months this year just underscored theneed for urgent action, in the view of U.S. officials.    Nonetheless, U.S. officials see signs of improvement in thedeficit. "I'd be stunned if we were not going to derive somebenefits (from the lower dollar) soon," said one.    In Paris, leading industrial nations agreed to cooperateclosely to foster currency stability within ranges reflecting"underlying economic fundamentals" or economic reality.    The agreement envisages those fundamentals to include Japanand West Germany stimulating their economies and the UnitedStates cutting its budget deficit.    The three nations, joined by France, Britain and Canada,agree these policies are essential to redress huge global tradeimbalances.    But analysts say markets have signalled the underlyingfundamentals imply a lower dollar, rather than a stable one.    Markets, in effect, are less confident than governmentsthat these measures -- including U.S. budget deficit cutsagreed by Congress and the White House --will be carried out.    Nonetheless, the dollar's sharp fall has not undermined cooperation. A U.S. economic policymaker said the accord was ontrack and Tokyo and Bonn seem "to want more stimulative measureswhich is what the Paris accord calls for."    International monetary sources said exchange marketdevelopments generally have not unsettled policymakers,although Japan is an obvious exception. "Everybody feels it canstill be managed," one source said of market developments.    But last week, the Bank of Japan spent an estimated fivebillion dlrs intervening to halt the rise in the yen, and othercentral banks about one billion dlrs.    Another monetary source said Japan was upset with America'shalf-hearted attempt to halt the falling dollar, flouting theParis accord outright.    The source, close to the top levels of Japanese economicpolicymaking, said Japan's understanding of the accord was thatthe yen would be kept at around 154 to the dollar, the level itstood at when the accord was struck.    The source said Tokyo was extremely worried by Washington'suse of the exchange rate to change Japanese policies. It was a"pointed reminder" to Japan to do something about the tradeissues, the source said of the dollar's fall against the yen.    By departing last Sunday from the language of the Parisaccord -- that nations agreed to foster currency stabilityaround current levels -- Baker triggered a run on the dollar.    Later in the week, Mulford too said there was no target forthe dollar and called on Japan and West Germany to live up totheir international responsibilities and stimulate growth.    But U.S. officials said recent market developments will notunravel the spirit of the Paris agreement.    "There's a realisation now that you cannot leave thingsalone, everyone agrees that the external (trade) imbalancesought to be adjusted," one official said.    "While no-one is going to cede national sovereignty, wecertainly seem to be moving towards much closer co-operation,"another U.S. official said.    The officials said the meeting here, where the six will bejoined by Italy, will be a status report.    "Japan will have to explain what the state of their programis and Germany will report on its plans. Maybe there's a needto move faster," one source said.    Mulford told Congress last week the Paris accord called, ineffect, for currency stability for several months. This wouldbuy time for Japan and West Germany to speed up their economicgrowth and help bring down the U.S. trade deficit.    His comments appeared to serve notice on other majornations that Washington cannot wait too long for action toreduce the gap between the Japanese and German trade surplusesand the U.S. trade deficit. Reuter
U.S. BANKER PREDICTS FURTHER DOLLAR FALL THIS YEAR A leading U.S. Banker said the dollarwas likely to fall another five to 10 pct this year and animprovement in the huge American trade deficit would be onlytemporary at current world exchange rate levels.    Kurt Viermetz, worldwide treasurer of Morgan Guaranty TrustCo, told Arab currency traders meeting here that the steadydepreciation of the dollar had not gone far enough to rein inU.S. deficits on a lasting basis. Reuter
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 129 MLN STG ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it had providedthe money market with assistance worth 129 mln stg in theafternoon session. This compares with the Bank's forecast of ashortage in the system today of around 100 mln stg.    The central bank purchased 129 mln stg bank bills in bandone at 9-7/8 pct. REUTER
JAPAN SET TO RIDE OUT YEN RISE, OFFICIALS SAY The government is determined to ride outthe latest sharp rise of the yen without taking panic measuresbecause it expects the currency's appreciation to provetemporary, senior officials said.    "The market has already located a ceiling (for the yen) andmarket forces are pushing the dollar back up a bit," one seniorFinance Ministry official said.    He attributed the dollar's fall in recent days to specialfactors, in particular, selling by Japanese investors ahead ofthe March 31 end to their fiscal year.    That selling largely came to an end this morning afterabout one hour of trading here, the senior official said. "They(the investors) became more or less quiet after 10 o'clock(0100 GMT)," he said.    After falling to a record low of 144.70 yen this morning,the dollar edged back up in late trading to end at 146.20.Dealers attributed the late rise to remarks by Prime MinisterYasuhiro Nakasone that major nations had agreed to stabilisethe dollar above 150 yen.    Several officials said they did not see any fundamentalreason for the dollar's recent sharp fall.    One official even called the market's recent actionsirrational. If anything, the U.S. Decision to slap tariffs onJapanese electronics goods should support the dollar againstthe yen because it will cut Japanese exports to the U.S., Hesaid.    As a result, several officials said they saw no reason toalter the broad thrust of government policy agreed to at lastmonth's meeting of major nations in Paris.    "We don't see any substantial reason to change our policystance," one senior official said.
H.K. DEALERS SAY NAKASONE G-6 COMMENT TOO LATE Remarks by Japan's Prime MinisterYasuhiro Nakasone that last month's G-6 meeting agreed tostabilize the dollar above 150 yen have come too late toinfluence currency trading, dealers said.    After Nakasone's statement the dollar rose to 146.40/50 yenfrom an initial low of 144.20/40 and New York's Friday finishof 147.15/25. But the rebound was largely on short-covering,they said.    "I think (Nakasone's) desperate," said a U.S. Bank foreignexchange manager.    Nakasone told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliamentthat Japan and other industrialized nations committedthemselves in Paris last month to stabilize the dollar above150 yen.    Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told the same committeethat the six - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. AndWest Germany - had intervened aggressively since the dollarfell below 150 yen.    "His (Nakasone) remarks should have been made and shouldhave had a bigger influence when the dollar was still above 150yen," said P.S. Tam of Morgan Guaranty Trust.    Tam said the dollar has hit short-term chart targets  andis likely to rebound. But he warned of another dip to below 145yen.    Dealers said the worsening trade relations between the U.S.And Japan will continue to depress the dollar.    The trade issue has now become a political issue since theReagan Administration is facing uproar in Congress overth3pYgks in cutting the country's 169.8 billion dlr tradedeficit, they said. REUTER
JAPAN CONDUCTS CURRENCY SURVEY OF BIG INVESTORS A Finance Ministry official said theministry has recently conducted a survey on foreign exchangetransactions by institutional investors but declined to say ifit was aimed at moderating their dollar sales.    However, financial market sources said they had heard theministry has asked life insurance and securities firms torefrain from selling dollars, but they were unable to confirmthis directly.    Dealers said life insurance firms were not major sellers ofdollars in recent trading sessions because they had alreadysold them to hedge risks.    Dealers said securities houses and trust banks on the otherhand have aggressively sold the dollar. REUTER
JAPANESE SEEN LIGHTENING U.S. BOND HOLDINGS The dollar's tumble to a record low of144.70 yen in Tokyo today motivated some major Japaneseinvestors to lighten their U.S. Bond inventory further and isexpected to spur diversification into investment assetsincluding foreign and domestic shares, dealers said.    The key U.S. 7-1/2 pct Treasury bond due 2016 fell to a lowof 96.08-12 in early Tokyo trade against the 98.05-06 New Yorkfinish, then recovered to 96.20-22.    Some trust bank pension fund acccounts and investmenttrusts were seen selling several hundred million dollars on theforeign exchange market here today, accentuating the unit'stumble, securities house dealers said.    They seem undecided on what to do with the fresh yen cashpositions resulting from their dollar sales today, and aresidelined until the currency market stabilises and the interestrates outlook clarifies, a Nikko Securities Co Ltd currencytrader said.    The dollar's plunge and low yields on U.S. Bonds willfurther promote diversification into other foreign investments,as well as call back funds into the domestic bond and stockmarkets from overseas bond markets, securities bond managerssaid.    They said major Japanese investors in the past two yearsare estimated to have held 50 to 80 pct of their foreignportfolios in U.S. Bonds but many have lightened their U.S.Bond inventory to as low as 40 pct.    Since late last year, Japanese investors, seekingsubstantial liquidity and attractive yields, have used freshfunds to buy mark and Canadian dollar bonds and, after theParis currency pact, actively bought French franc bonds andgilts while gradually lightening U.S. Bond inventories, themanagers said.    Dealers said funds tied up in foreign assets had flowedinto local bond and stock markets as well.    The yield of the key 5.1 pct 89th bond dropped to a recordlow of 4.080 pct today from the 4.140 Saturday finish andcompared with 4.25 pct on three-month certificates of deposit.    The key bond has fluctuated less than five basis points formore than a month here, suggesting most dealers could notsatisfy their needs for capital gains, dealers said.    A market survey by Reuters showed some active accounts inU.S. Treasuries are currently dealing on Tokyo's stock market.The stock market's bullishness late last week was partly due tofunds transferred from U.S. Treasuries, dealers said.    Japanese net purchases of foreign securities in the firsthalf of March fell an estimated one billion dlrs compared withaverage monthly net purchases of 7.7 billion for the whole of1986, Finance Ministry sources said.    The steep fall is due to Japanese investors' cool attitudetowards U.S. Bonds, which had amounted to more than 80 pct oftotal foreign securities purchased, securities houses managerssaid.    Foreign stock buying in March is expected to exceed therecord high of 1.5 billion dlrs seen in December, they said.    "Diversification of foreign portfolios is underway and wehave bought bonds in currencies such as marks, the Canadiandollar, the ECU and French franc," a fund manager at <YasudaTrust and Banking Co Ltd> said. REUTER
FED SETS TWO BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE,  Global Petroleum Corp said today itraised its posted prices for numbers six fuel cargoes in thenew york harbor 70 cts to 1.60 dlrs per barrel, depending ongrade.    Effective today, the new prices are: 0.3 pct sulphur 22.50dlrs, up 1.25; 0.5 pct sulphur 21.85 dlrs, up 1.60; one pctsulphur 20.10 dlrs, up 70 cts; two pct sulphur 19.85, up 75cts; 2.2 pct sulphur 19.25 dlrs, up 90 cts; 2.5 pct sulphur18.80 dlrs, up 1.20, the company said. Reuter
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange two billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.    Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/8 pct whenthe Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves tothe banking system. Reuter
FED WILL BUY BILLS FOR CUSTOMER AFTER AUCTION The Federal Reserve said it will enterthe U.S. Government securities market after the 1300 EST weeklybill auction to purchase around 900 mln dlrs of Treasury billsfor customers, a spokesman said.    He said the Fed will purchase bills with maturities fromMay through September 10.    Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/8 pct whenthe Fed announced the operation. Reuter
PARIS MEET AGREED NOT TO PUBLISH BANDS - LAWSON U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer NigelLawson said the meeting of six major industrial nations inParis last month agreed not to publish any bands in connectionwith their pact to stabilise currencies.    Questioned by a parliamentary select committee about whythe participating countries had not announced any bands, Lawsonreplied, "we all agreed it would be much more sensible not to."When asked whether that meant an informal joint currency floatwith set ranges was arranged in Paris, Lawson said "I do notwant to reveal the precise nature of the agreement, so as notto make it easy for" speculation against the accord.    Lawson said the Paris accord presumed that individualcountries would take corrective action if their currency beganreacting significantly to domestic macroeconomic factors.    But if such movements were due to extraneous factors,Lawson said the other pact countries would come to its aidthrough concerted intervention on the foreign exchanges.    "It is clear that both Germany and Japan are havingdifficulty adjusting to their very large exchange rateappreciations and making their economies more domesticallyoriented, just as it is taking time for the United States tomake its own economy more export oriented," Lawson said.    In his oral evidence to Parliament's Select TreasuryCommittee, Lawson repeated that he was happy with the pound'scurrent level, adding that "It is an objective ... To try tokeep it around that level."    He said the perception of sterling on foreign exchanges hadchanged since the steep drop in oil prices, largely because thepound had weathered that period so successfully. "There has beena reassessment of sterling's fundamentals," Lawson said.  Hedisagreed with what he termed "the grossly exaggerated claim"that real U.K. Interest rates were much higher than those ofother major industrialsed countries.    Using as a reference the key three-month sterling interbankrate as quoted in London, Lawson said Britain now had a realinterest rate level of 5.75 pct - the same as Japan did andonly a 0.75 percentaage point above the Group of Five average.    Lawson confirmed that "over the medium and longer term, thegovernment's objective is zero inflation."    He said the government's intention of its PSBR constant at1.0 pct of GDP "is the modern equivalent of the balanced budgetdoctrine."  He added that "to allow the debt/GDP ratio to remainconstant on anything other than zero inflation basis is simplya recipe for accelerating inflation." Reuter
TREASURY BALANCES AT FED FELL ON MARCH 27 Treasury balances at the FederalReserve fell on March 27 to 2.424 billion dlrs from 2.508billion dlrs on the previous business day, the Treasury said inits latest budget statement.    Balances in tax and loan note accounts fell to 9.706billion dlrs from 10.786 billion dlrs on the same respectivedays.    The Treasury's operating cash balance totaled 12.131billion dlrs on March 27 compared with 13.283 billion dlrs onMarch 26. Reuter
U.S. CREDIT MARKETS END UNDER EXTREME PRESSURE The U.S. credit market ended underextreme pressure as the dollar's continued slide on thecurrency markets triggered an avalanche of U.S. securitiessales, pushing prices to 1987 lows, dealers and analysts said.    "This was a bloodbath," said one money market economist."We've been trading in a state of total panic at times today,"said another.    Mirroring the dollar's fall to a 40-year low against theyen, the key 7-1/2 pct 30-year Treasury bond price fell nearlytwo points to close at 96-7/32, compared with 98-5/32 onFriday. The corresponding yield jumped to 7.83 pct from 7.66. Reuter
BRAZIL TEMPORARILY LEGALISES DLR PARALLEL MARKET Brazilian President Jose Sarneyannounced a move which temporarily legalises the purchase ofU.S. dollars in the parallel currency market, aimed atpromoting imports of foreign goods.    In a speech, Sarney justified his measure as a need to face"current well known difficulties to obtain foreign loans for thepurchase of goods."    The parallel market, although officially tolerated, istechnically illegal in Brazil. For the past year, the dollar inthe parallel market has sold at between 25 and 100 pct abovethe official rate.    Sarney's decision means Brazilian importers of machineryand industrial equipment can buy dollar currency in theparallel market without having to wait for an official orderfrom the Banco do Brasil's Foreign Trade Department (Cacex).    Sarney also announced measures to boost exports in aneffort to strengthen the country's trade balance and alleviatethe risk of a reduction of foreign loans for this sector of theeconomy.    The president authorised the National Foreign Trade Council(CONEX) to resume operating as the ruling body of Brazil'strade policy, with participation of the private sector.    The Council had been closed three years ago by the militarygovernment of former President Joao Figueiredo. Reuter
SARNEY TEMPORARILY LEGALISES DLR PARALLEL MARKET Brazilian President Jose Sarneyannounced a move which temporarily legalises the purchase ofU.S. Dollar currency in the parallel market, aimed at promotingimports of foreign goods.    In a speech, Sarney justified his measure as a need to face"current well known difficulties to obtain foreign loans for thepurchase of goods."    The parallel market, although tolerated, is technicallyillegal. For the past year, the dollar in the parallel marketis being sold at 25 to 100 pct above the official rate.    Sarney's decision means that Brazilian importers ofmachinery and industrial equipment can buy dollar currency inthe parallel market without having to wait for the issuing ofan official order from the Banco do Brasil's Foreign TradeDepartment (Cacex).    Sarney also announced measures to boost exports in aneffort to strengthen the country's trade balance and alleviatethe risk of a reduction of foreign loans for this sector of theeconomy.    The president authorised the National Foreign Trade Council(CONEX) to resume operating as the ruling body of Brazil'strade policy, with participation of the private sector.    The Council had been closed three years ago by the militarygovernment of former President Joao Figueiredo.    Tomorrow, Brazil was due to fulfill payment of 15 billiondollars in short range credit lines, but its economic officialshave suggested a 60-day extension in the deadline in order toseek a renegotiation with its creditors.    Sarney told members of the Council that for Brazil it is amust to recover its annual trade balance surplus to the 12billion dollars average recorded in 1984 and 1985, and whichdropped sharply last year to 8 billion dollars.    He attributed the poor performance of Brazil's tradebalance in 1986 to protectionist moves by industrialisedcountries, the fall in the prices of basic goods and the crisisfaced by several of Brazil's Third World trade partners. Reuter
U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it had invitedan early round of bill offers from the discount houses afterforecasting a very large shortage of around 1.75 billion stg inthe money market today. MORE
U.K. MONEY MARKET GETS 1.14 BILLION STG EARLY HELP The Bank of England said it had providedthe money market with 1.143 billion mln stg assistance inresponse to an early round of bill offers from the discounthouses.    Earlier, the Bank forecast the system would face a verylarge deficit today of around 1.75 billion stg.    The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprising393 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 649 mln stg in band twoat 9-13/16 pct and 85 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct.    In addition it bought 16 mln stg of local authority billsin band two at 9-13/16 pct. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN MULLS OTHER OPTIONS TO STOP YEN RISE Today's liberalised financial markets aremaking it extremely difficult for Japan's monetary authoritiesto prevent the yen's rise against the dollar, but they haveseveral options other than normal intervention, Bank of Japansources said.    A senior central bank official said that such methods ascontrolling foreign exchange deals and invoking currency swapagreements with other central banks, which have not beeninvoked since 1978, are all being considered.    "But the time may not be ripe," he said.    "In this era of financial liberalisation, it's almostimpossible to control the flow of capital in and out of Japan,"said another senior bank official.    But the first official said: "From a technical viewpoint,the Bank of Japan could activate swap agreements immediatelyafter other central banks involved agreed to do so."    A swap agreement, an exchange of currency between twonations, allows both sides to acquire a ready source of theother's currency in case of need.    "If the Bank invokes such swaps, both parties would announcethe decision jointly," said the first official.    The sources said they believed the limit of currency marketintervention may be being reached after they saw recentconcerted market action by central banks of major industrialnations was increasingly ineffective in propping up thebattered dollar.    But intervention is at least an option, they said. Furthereasing of monetary policy will be very difficult with anofficial discount rate already at a record low of 2.5 pct, theysaid.    Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita has repeatedly ruledout another rate cut due to fears it could revive inflation.    One bank official said he could not deny the possibilty ofthe Bank of Japan activating currency swap agreements with theU.S. And other central banks, if these banks continueintervening to sell the yen in support of the dollar and runout of their yen cash positions.    "But we don't think they have become short of yen quite yet,"he said.    The bank has established a five billion dlr swap limit withthe U.S. Federal Reserve and another 2.5 billion mark and 200billion yen limit with the West German and Swiss central banks,according to the sources.    Foreign exchange dealers estimate the Fed had sold twobillion dlrs worth of yen from its own account to support thedollar in New York last week.    The central bank sources also said Japan may arrange othercurrency swap agreements with Britain and France if they findit necessary, but added they are not actually talking with eachother towards that end. REUTER
S. KOREA MINISTER TO VISIT U.S. FOR CURRENCY TALKS South Korea's Finance Minister ChungIn-yong will visit U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker nextweek to discuss U.S. Requests for an appreciation of SouthKorea's won against the dollar, finance ministry officialssaid.    They said Chung would leave for Washington on Monday toattend the International Monetary Fund's (IMF) InterimCommittee meeting and for talks with U.S. Officials on ways ofreducing Seoul's trade surplus with Washington.    The dates for the Baker-Chung meeting have yet to be set.    The IMF committee meeting, scheduled for April 9, isexpected to review the resolution reached by the six topindustrialised nations in Paris last month calling for newlyindustrialised countries, such as South Korea and Taiwan, toallow their currencies to rise.    The official said Chung is expected to outline Seoul'sefforts to increase imports of U.S. Goods and to stress theneed for South Korea to maintain a trade surplus in the nextfew years in order to cut foreign debts totalling some 44.5billion dlrs.    South Korea has ruled out a major revaluation of the won,but is allowing its currency to appreciate slowly.    Trade Minister Rha Woong-bae told the U.S. Chamber ofCommerce earlier this month a sudden won revaluation couldresult in South Korea running a large trade deficit and beingforced to renege on its international debt repayments.    The Bank of Korea, the central bank, today fixed the won ata two-year high of 846.90. The won has gained 5.1 pct since thebeginning of 1986.    South Korea's trade surplus with the U.S. Rose to 7.1billion dlrs last year from 4.3 billion in 1985. REUTER
BUNDESBANK HAS NOT INTERVENED TODAY, DEALERS The Bundesbank declined to comment onrumours in Tokyo that it was intervening heavily to support thedollar, but dealers here said they had not seen the Germancentral bank in the market all morning.    The dollar was quoted at around 1.8040 marks shortly aftermidday in nervous but quiet trading, up from its 1.7975/85opening.    Spreads against the mark remained around 10 basis points,with some banks quoting only five point spreads. Dealers saidspreads would widen and the dollar would move more sharply ifthe Bundesbank did intervene. REUTER
UK MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 570 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it provided themarket with a further 570 mln stg assistance during the morningafter revising its estimate of the liquidity shortage to 1.85billion stg, before taking account of its early round of billpurchases.    Initially, the Bank put the likely shortage at some 1.75billion and to help offset this gave early assistance of 1.143billion.    Its total help so far today amounts to 1.713 billion stg. MORE
CALL MONEY PRESSURE FROM LARGE GERMAN BANKS One or two large West German bankseffectively drained the domestic money market of liquidity atthe end of the month in order to achieve higher rates fromtheir overnight deposits, money dealers said.    As a result, call money soared in active trading to aroundthe Lombard rate of five pct from 3.70/80 pct yesterday asbanks found themselves short of minimum reserve funds.    Bundesbank figures showed that banks held an average daily51 billion marks in interest-free minimum reserve assets at thecentral bank over the first 29 days of the month.    Though this was above the March requirement of 50.7billion, actual holdings at the weekend were 44.2 billion.    To meet the daily average, dealers said, banks must raiseholdings by two billion marks to 46.3 billion today andtomorrow. But liquidity was tight in early business becausebanks excessively took up the Bundesbank's offer for sale ofTreasury bills on Friday. This provides a rate of 3.50 pct forthree-day deposits and is an effective floor to the market.    Though some liquidity, from bills bought on Thursday,flowed back into the market today, the bulk would not returnuntil tomorrow, the start of the new month, dealers said.    Dealers said the large banks, which they did not name,commanded short-term money requirements of as much as fivebillion marks or so.    With a knowledge of their own needs until the end of themonth, the banks bought excessive amounts of treasury bills,draining liquidity for three days. When other banks soughtfunds, rates rose and large banks were able to place excessfunds on deposit at a considerably higher average return.    One senior dealer said the Bundesbank, with advancedknowledge of the market's needs, should have curtailed itssales of treasury bills on Friday.    Though dealers only late in the day learn of the totalminimum reserve holdings of the previous day, the Bundesbankhas an immediate overview of the situation and could anticipatethe strength of demand for funds the following day, he said.    "(Bundesbank dealers) could easily have said we are notselling any treasury bills or we're not selling them in thisamount," he said. "If the Bundesbank wants to finely steer themarket then they should avoid such excesses. Tomorrow it willbe different. Call money will fall back to 4.0 pct or so."    But the Bundesbank would not approve of the sharp jump inrates, given the delicate state of currency markets.    International central banks have been at pains to prevent adollar fall against major currencies, including the mark.Dealers said a rise in call money gives the mark a firmerundertone, contributing to downward pressure on the dollar.    "The whole tender policy is to have a call money of betweenthree and four pct. In that case the excesses as we have todaycannot be very popular," the senior dealer said.    Dealers said the large banks probably achieved averagerates of return on their excess funds of between 3.75 pct orfour pct. This is a higher return than they would have earnedwithout the excessive draining through the treasury billmechanism.    Because of the currency situation and the wage negotiationsbetween Germany's major employers and the unions, theBundesbank would be very unlikely to make any changes tomonetary policy at its council meeting on Thursday, they said.    Bundesbank figures showed that banks fell back on theLombard emergency funding facility to draw down 1.5 billionmarks yesterday as rates began to tighten in late business. REUTER
BUNDESBANK HAS NOT INTERVENED TODAY, DEALERS The Bundesbank declined to comment onrumours in Tokyo that it was intervening heavily to support thedollar, but dealers here said they had not seen the Germancentral bank in the market all morning.    The dollar was quoted at around 1.8040 marks shortly aftermidday in nervous but quiet trading, up from its 1.7975/85opening.    Spreads against the mark remained around 10 basis points,with some banks quoting only five point spreads. Dealers saidspreads would widen and the dollar would move more sharply ifthe Bundesbank did intervene. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 800 BILLION YEN IN BILLS The Bank of Japan will sell tomorrow atotal of 800 billion yen worth of financing bills from itsholdings to help absorb a projected money market surplus of1,700 billion yen, money traders said.    Of the total, 300 billion yen will yield 3.8992 pct onsales from money houses to banks and securities houses in a23-day repurchase accord maturing on April 24.    The remaining 500 billion yen will yield 3.8990 pct in a31-day repurchase pact maturing on May 2, they said.    The repurchase agreement yields compare with the 3.8750 pctone-month commercial bill discount rate today and the 4.28/11pct rate on one-month certificates of deposit.    Tomorrow's surplus is attributable to excess bank holdingsfrom sales of yen to buy dollars and to huge cash amounts to beredeposited at banks after the current financial year-endtoday, the traders said.    The operation will put the outstanding bill supply at about3,200 billion yen. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED UP The Bank of England said it had revisedits estimate of the deficit in the money market today up to arecord two billion stg, before taking account of its morningoperations, from 1.85 billion at midday.    The Bank has provided the system with around 1.71 billionstg assistance so far today. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 168 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it had providedthe money market with a further 168 mln stg assistance in theafternoon session. This takes the Bank's total help so fartoday to 1.88 billion stg and compares with its estimate of arecord two billon stg shortage in the system.    The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprising25 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 138 mln stg in band two at9-13/16 pct and three mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct.    It also bought two mln stg of treasury bills in band two at9-13/16 pct. REUTER
SOUTH KOREA TO RESIST CURRENCY REVALUATION South Korean Finance Minister ChungIn-yong will resist pressure for a currency revaluation to cutSouth Korea's trade surplus with the United States when hemeets Treasury Secretary James Baker next week, FinanceMinistry officials said.    They said Chung would leave Monday to attend theInternational Monetary Fund's Interim Committee meeting and tohold talks with Baker and other U.S. officials on ways toreduce the surplus.    The April 9 committee meeting is expected to review theagreement by six industrialized nations in Paris last monththat newly-industrialized countries, such as South Korea andTaiwan, should allow their currencies to increase in value. Reuter
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 215 MLN STG LATE HELP The Bank of England said it had providedthe money market with late assistance of around 215 mln stg.This takes the bank's total help today to some 2.096 billionstg and compares with its forecast of a two billion stgshortage in the system today. REUTER
U.S. TREASURY'S BAKER SEES RATE STABILITY Treasury Secretary James Baker saidthe agreement among the industrial countries reached in Parislast month should foster stability of exchange rates at aroundcurrent levels.    In testimony before the House Appropriations Committee,Baker outlined many of the measures taken designed to achievemore balanced growth and a reduction of trade imbalances duringthe Paris meeting.    "These measures should also foster greater stability ofexchange rates around current levels," he said.    Baker reiterated that the ministers at the Paris meetingagreed that their currencies were within ranges "broadlyconsistent with underlying economic fundamentals and thatfurther substantial exchange rate shifts could damage growthand adjustment prospects."    He added: "In these circumstances, we agreed to cooperateclosely to foster stability of exchange rates around currentlevels." Reuter
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS COOPERATION WORKING Treasury Secretary James Baker saidthat the agreement in Paris to cooperate in exchange ratechanges showed that the process of coordination agreed to atthe Tokyo summit was working.    He told the House Appropriations Committee the meeting"demonstrated that the process is working."    He noted that the industrial surplus countries committedthemselves to strengthen their growth prospects while thedeficit countries agreed to reduce their domestic imbalances.    Baker said that for its part, Japan announced a cut in itsdiscount rate to 2.5 pct and committed itself to prepare acomprehensive economic program to stimulate domestic demandafter the Diet completes action on the current budget.    He said the United States must also do its share pressingfor reductions in the federal budget deficit through spendingcuts.    "And we must continue to oppose protectionist pressures,"he added. Reuter
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS U.S. REMAINS PREPARED TO FOSTER EXCHANGE RATE S Arvin Industries Inc said higherinterest costs from borrowings to make acquisitions willproduce earnings flat with last year's 59 cts a share results.    Arvin said it might earn 57 cts to 60 cts a share in thequarter.    These results also reflect the seasonally low sales patternof automotive replacement parts in that period.    Arvin forecast about 85 cts a share net in the secondquarter compared with 68 cts in last year's period.    The company said revenues for full year 1987 it will exceed1.4 billion dlrs, net earnings will increase more than 30 pct,while per share earnings should increase 12 to 18 pct.    Arvin's 1986 revenues were 995.6 mln, net reached 41.2 mlnand earnings per share 2.46 dlrs.    It based these forecasts due to the addition of SchraderAutomotive Inc and Maremont Corp, both acquired last year.    Chairman James Baker said 1987 quarterly comparisons willnot conform to historical patterns for the year because theacquisitions of Schrader and Maremond occurred in differentquarters.    He said Arvin will complete the purchase of SystemsResearch Laboratories in the second quarter of 1987. This willalso increase revenues. Reuter
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS U.S. BACKS STABILITY Treasury Secretary James Baker saidthe United States and the five other industrialized nationssigning the recent Paris Accord remain committed to fosteringthe exchange rate at around current levels.    But he declined to comment on what he believed to be anappropriate level of the dollar in world markets.    "I'm not going to comment on that because invariably theexchange markets read either more or less into my remarks thanI might intend," he said in response to a question from theHouse Appropriations Committee.    Baker said the six nations participating in the Parismeeting in February had "acknowledged that the currencies arewithin ranges that are broadly consistent with the economicfundamentals and we and the others as well remain prepared tocooperate closely to foster stability in exchange rates aroundthose levels." Reuter
BANGEMANN CALLS FOR CURRENCY CALM West German Economics Minister MartinBangemann urged a halt to the talking down of the dollar byboth official and private institutions in the U.S., Saying calmwas needed on the foreign exchanges.    Speaking at the opening of the 40th Hanover Industry Fair,Bangemann said radical changes in foreign exchange parities hadleft their mark on exports and investments. He added thatwithout these external difficulties, West Germany's economywould have grown by 3.5 pct last year instead of the 2.5 pctreported.    Bangemann said he could not deny that the economic climatein West Germany had cooled, but he stressed the country was notin a downtrend.    The minister also criticised state subsidies, which he saidmainly favoured large companies and created a tax burden forsmaller and medium sized firms.    Bangemann referred specifically to subsidies in the steelindustry, which he said had to be fought with all legal meanswhen they did not correspond to European Community guidelineson grants.    He added that in light of the declining demand for steelcapacities had to be adjusted, saying the Bonn government wouldnot successfully be able to stand in the way of any change inthis industry.    Bangemann also spoke out against protectionism and calledfor more competition, citing as an example the Federal PostOffice.    The Post Office enjoys a monopoly in West Germany,especially as far as deciding who is able to providetelecommunications equipment. REUTER
TREASURY'S BAKER PURSUING S. ASIAN REVALUATIONS Treasury Secretary James Baker toldthe House Appropriations Committee the United States is stillpressing newly industrialized south Asian nations that havetied their currencies to the dollar to let those currenciesstrengthen against the dollar.    "We have seen some strengthening of those currencies (but)not as much as we would like," he said.    "We have been somewhat disappointed in the results so far,but we intend to continue these discussions," he said. Reuter
TREASURY'S BAKER PURSUING S. ASIAN REVALUATIONS Treasury Secretary James Baker toldthe House Appropriations Committee the United States is stillpressing newly industrialized south Asian nations that havetied their currencies to the dollar to let those currenciesstrengthen against the U.S. currency.    "We have seen some strengthening of those currencies (but)not as much as we would like," he said.    "We have been somewhat disappointed in the results so far,but we intend to continue these discussions," he said. Reuter
CURRENCY FUTURES CLIMB LIKELY TO BE CHECKED The surge in currency futures sinceFriday on the heels of the Reagan administration's proposedtariffs on Japanese imports is likely to be curtailed in thecoming week, financial analysts said.    "The market is taking a breather now, and I would expect itto last a little longer," said Craig Sloane, a currency analystwith Smith Barney, Harris, Upham and Co.    Profit-taking, which robbed the currency futures of somemomentum today, is likely to continue, he said.    Central banks are likely to play a role in halting theadvance in currencies through intervention, the analysts said,even though the dollar fell to a 40-year low against theJapanese yen on Monday despite Bank of Japan intervention.    Treasury Secretary James Baker's comments that the G-6nations remain committed to the Paris accord, coupled with hisrefusal to give any targets for exchange rates, provided a noteof stability to the market Tuesday, the analysts said.    Furthermore, Merrill Lynch Economics analyst David Hornersaid G-6 central banks haven't yet shown the full force oftheir commitment to the Paris accord.    "I'm among those who believe the G-6 have a plan behind thescenes," Horner said.    Horner said more forceful central bank intervention willfirm the dollar and cap the rise in currency futures.    "Coordinated, punishing intervention" by the central banks-- in contrast to the recent rolling intervention which hasonly smoothed out the market -- is in the offing, according toHorner.    "I think we're near the top of the range in the Europeans(currencies)," he said.     On the other hand, the upside target for the yen, whichset a new contract high today at 0.006916 in the June contract,is at 0.007050, Horner said.    Still, other analysts believe currency futures have yet topeak.    "The basic trend in the currencies is higher," said AnneParker Mills, currency analyst with Shearson Lehman BrothersInc. "The market wants to take the dollar lower."    Uncertainty over central bank action and nervousness over aG-5 meeting next week in advance of a meeting of theInternational Monetary Fund could make for choppy priceactivity the remainder of the week, Mills said.    In addition, although the market shrugged off relativelyhealthy gains in February U.S. leading economic indicators andfactory orders Tuesday, economic data could play a larger rolein coming sessions, the analysts said.    Friday's employment statistics in particular will beclosely watched, Sloane said, adding that a forecast rise of250,000 in non-farm payroll jobs should underpin the dollar. Reuter
U.S. FED EXPLORES COMMODITY BASKET INDEX The complex task of wielding controlover monetary policy in an increasingly fast-moving globaleconomy could be aided by tying policy to commodity prices, thenewest member of the Federal Reserve Board says.    Commodity prices are already considered by the Fed in themaking of monetary policy. But they would be given a muchgreater role under an idea being floated by Governor RobertHeller, who joined the board last August.    He conceeds that much more study of the idea is needed, butargues that such an arrangement, particularly if it wereadopted by other major industrial countries, could reduce thevolatility of exchange rates.    Moreover, it could help stabilize of the prices ofcommodities themselves, slowing changes in inflation.    His idea, which many conservative economists findappealing, has some backing among board members appointed inrecent years by President Reagan.    It would complement the present system of opening orclosing the monetary screws based on the pattern of inflation,key indicators such as unemployment, and the rise or fall ofthe money supply. Changes in the money supply can lead tochanges in interest rates and affect economic activitydirectly.    Discussed on and off for a long time, the commodity conceptis part of a growing search for a system that anchors monetarypolicy and widely-fluxtuating currency prices to a more solidbase.    "What is needed is an anchor or reference point that canserve as a guide for both domestic and international monetarypurposes," says Heller.    In the past, this anchor was gold but the United Stateswent off the gold standard because the global economy hadvastly outstripped gold supplies.    A return to the gold standard is generally dismissed out ofhand by most policymakers on the grounds that the largestproducers of gold are the Soviet Union and South Africa.    The so-called fixed rate system, scuttled in the early1970s, is still considered unworkable in the present world.    But the current system of floating currencies in whichcurrencies can fluxtuate widely, adding vast pressures to themonetary system, is also being widely questioned.    Some have suggested that the system might benefit from aformal approach that mandates intervention by countries whencurrencies wander above or below agreed to levels but there aremajor problems with this also.    For one thing, there is justifiable concern that countriesmight be relunctant to intervene if they felt it might bedetrimental to their own domestic economy.    Moreover, some question whether concerted intervention canmake much of an inpact if the overall market does not agreewith the fundamental judgement.    The poorest countries have called for a monetary conferenceto work out a new system that, not surprisingly, helps themcope with their overpowering debt problems.    Treasury Secretary James Baker, the Reagan administration'schief economic architect, has preferred to use the so-calledGroup of Five industrial countries or sometimes, Seven, as aforum to work out cooperative agreements on currency and othereconomic matters.   He appears convinced that officials from West Germany,France, Britain, Japan, Italy and Canada talking quietly behindclosed doors can reached reasoned decisions away from publicposturing.   The Heller approach, while extremely complex, could have aprofound impact on the system, ideally stabalizing prices andinternational exchange rates.    As envisioned by Heller, a basket of say, 30 majorcommodities ranging from wheat to oil, would be put togetherand prices would be measured on a regular basis.    "In times of rising commodity prices, monetary policy mightbe tightened and in times of falling commodity prices, montarypolicy might be eased," he says.    He notes that commodity prices are traded daily in auctionmarkets, and a commodity price index can be calculated on avirtually continuous basis.    Moreover, most commodity prices are produced, consumed andtraded on a world-wide basis, so "that an index has a relevancefor the entire world," he says.    In addition, commodity prices are at the beginning of theproduction chain and serve as an imput into virtually allproduction processes.    "Focusing on commodity prices as an early and sensitiveindicator of current and perhaps also future prices pressures,the monetary authorities may take such an index into account inmaking their monetary policy decisions," he says.    However, he says that any major change in a basic commoditysuch as occurred in oil during the 1970s because of action bythe OPEC cartel, would have to be discounted in such a system.    He says the worst thing that could happen is to allowmonetary policy to spread a freakish increase in one commodityto the rest of the system and to other commodities. Reuter
Bank of Japan buys dollars around 146.30 yen, dea Australian annual broad money growth rose10.3 pct in February, unchanged from January, but down from thecorresponding February growth rate of 13.9 pct, the ReserveBank said.    February broad money growth was steady at 0.7 pct from theprevious month and unchanged from February last year.    Borrowings from the private sector by non-bank financialintermediaries rose by 8.8 pct in the February year fromJanuary's 9.5 pct rise, compared with a 13.6 pct increase inthe previous February year.    In February, borrowings from the private sector by non-bankfinancial intermediaries rose by 1.0 pct compared withJanuary's 0.2 pct increase and the previous February rise of1.7 pct.    At the end of February, broad money stood at 177.1 billiondlrs up from January's 175.84 billion and compared with theprevious February level of 160.60 billion.    The Reserve Bank last week reported a February M3 growthrate of 11.2 pct from January's 10.7 pct rise and a previousannual February increase of 14.0 pct. REUTER
Bank of Japan intervenes buying dollars at around 147.30 yen - Commerzbank AG <CBKG.F> managementboard chairman Walter Seipp said that from the presentviewpoint the bank must expect 1987 full operating profit to belower than in 1986.    In the first two months of the year, partial operatingprofit -- excluding trading on the bank's own account -declined, he said, without giving details.    The interest surplus fell 2.8 pct compared with 2/12ths of1986 results, while the commission surplus, because of thequiet stock exchange business, fell back still more strongly.By contrast the personnel and fixed asset expenses increased.    German banks do not report full operating profit. But Seippsaid last year the figure for the first time had topped onebillion marks for the parent bank, and the group result wasaround 50 pct higher than this.    Commenting on 1986, Seipp said, "we were able to raise thefull operating profit...Slightly above the record result of1985 because own account profits increased slightly."    He gave no concrete details but added that in January andFebruary, good own account trading profits meant that the dropin full operating earnings was more modest than that in thepartial operating figure.    The bank would, as a result, be more profit-oriented infuture, developing, for example, more into investment banking,keeping a tight rein on personnel costs and dampeningexpenditures on fixed assets.    Turning to 1986 results, Seipp said by year end there hadbeen a strong growth in business volume.    Over the year business volume rose by 9.9 pct to 93.2billion marks compared with 1985, Seipp added.    Group balance sheet volume rose by 8.0 pct to 148.15billion. It would have been around five billion marks higherstill if currency relationships had remained unchanged.    In the parent bank, the interest surplus rose nine pct inthe year, while the interest margin held roughly at 1985's 2.56pct despite pressure on credit rates.    The surplus on commission business, which had soared by aquarter in 1985, rose by 11.6 pct last year thanks almostexclusively to growth in securities commissions, Seipp said.    Personnel expenditure was up 11.9 pct last year, at morethan 1.5 billion marks. Fixed asset expenditure rose by 9.6 pctto more than 650 mln.    As a result, the parent bank partial operating profit roseby 3.2 pct to 752 mln marks.    Parent bank tax payment rose to 244 mln marks last yearfrom 233 mln in 1985.    Seipp said extraordinary earnings included a "hightwo-figure million" in profit from the sale of the bank's AEG AG<AEGG.F> shares to Daimler-Benz AG <DAIG.F> during the latter'smajority stake purchase booked last year.    The ability of the bank to write off depreciations incredit business against profits from securities trading andearnings on the sale of stakes had been utilised, as in prioryears, to its full extent.    Because of numerous insolvencies at home, by far thelargest part of the provisions were set aside for individualwrite-downs from domestic business. Abroad, the circle ofproblem debtor countries rose last year, although the ratio ofcredit exposure to provisions improved further.    Seipp said that because about half the group's exposure toproblem nations was in dollars, the bank had swapped intodollars individual provisions hitherto held primarily in marks.    "This means that no open currency positions exist any longeron the amount of the provision that is made against an actualdefault," he added.    Despite the increase in concern over debtor nations in thelast few weeks, he said, the international banking community isbetter armed than it was against payment problems.    All banks had significantly strengthened their capitalbase, most European banks had made considerable provisionsagainst bad debts while goverments and central banks werebetter prepared for unforseen difficulties.    He described debt-equity swaps as a very interesting newapproach to indebted nations' problems. There was a lot ofinterest in direct investment via an equity participation inLatin America, particularly from West German firms. Reuter
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN EARLY TOKYO AFTERNOON The Bank of Japan intervened in the marketin the early afternoon, buying dollars around 147.30 yen andcontinuing to buy them as high as 147.50 yen, dealers said.    The Bank intervened just after the dollar started rising onbuying by securities houses at around 147.05 yen, and hoped toaccelerate the dollar's advance, they said.    The dollar rose as high as 147.50 yen.  REUTER
SEIPP SAYS GERMAN INTEREST RATES SHOULD FALL The Bundesbank should take furthersteps to reduce German interest rates to protect the mark fromfurther appreciation and to persuade investors to bringlong-term yields lower, Commerzbank AG <CBKG.F> managementboard chairman Walter Seipp said.    But he told the bank's annual news conference this did notmean a cut in leading interest rates, rather a reduction inmoney market rates through bringing the allocation rates downfor Bundesbank securities repurchase agreements.    "Leading interest rates are not the decisive rates," he said."The money market rates are the important ones."    Seipp said the Bundesbank should move away from allocatingmoney market liquidity at a fixed 3.8 pct as it has in recenttender allocations.    An easier monetary policy would not mean a loss ofcredibility for the Bundesbank in its containment of monetarygrowth. A fall in short rates would make the public aware ofthe high yields in bonds and lead to a longer-term capitalformation, braking the expansion of money supply.    "Thus, you can have lower rates and also a normalisation ofmonetary growth both at the same time," he added.    Seipp said there were no grounds to paint too black apicture of the German economy, since company profitability hadimproved over recent years and domestic oriented firms wereprofiting from cheaper imports because of the rise in the mark.    Growth this year should be at least one pct, he said,describing the downturn in production in the first months as afalse start, unrepresentative of the rest of the year.    After an economic contraction in the first quarter, theeconomy should show an uptrend in the last three. "We don'tbelieve that the economy has tipped over, but see it more as a'growth dip,'" Seipp said.    But Seipp also called for support for growth from fiscalpolicy, saying the top rate of income and corporate tax shouldbe brought down to 49 pct. The current peak rate is 56 pct.    The additional tax cuts brought forward to next Januarywere no substitute for support for growth.    Seipp added the federal government should make "furthercourageous steps to decrease the state's proportion of theGerman economy and to increase its flexibility." Reuter
CURRENCY INSTABILITY WILL NOT LAST - SUMITA Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita saidthe present foreign exchange market instability will not lastlong as there is caution in the market regarding the rapiddecline of the U.S. Unit.    He told reporters the major currency nations are determinedto continue their concerted intervention whenever necessary tostave off speculative dollar selling in line with theirFebruary 22 currency stability agreement in Paris.    Sumita also said he did not see the recent dollar drop asanything like a free-fall. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it had invitedan early round of bill offers from the discount houses afterforecasting a shortage of around 1.2 billion stg in the moneymarket today.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills forrepurchase by the market will drain some 526 mln stg whilebills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasurybills will remove around 1.79 billion stg. A rise in notecirculation will take out a further 105 mln stg.    Partly offsetting these outflows, exchequer transactionswill add around 1.01 billion stg and bankers' balances abovetarget some 185 mln stg. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 689 MLN STG EARLY HELP The Bank of England said it had providedthe money market with early assistance of 689 mln stg inresponse to an early round of bill offers from the discounthouses. This compares with the Bank's estimate that the systemwould face a shortage of around 1.2 billion stg today.    The central bank made outright purchases of bank billscomprising 347 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 207 mln stg inband two at 9-13/16 pct and 135 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4pct. REUTER
GERMAN CALL MONEY DROPS BACK AT MONTH START Call money rates fell to 3.85/95 pctfrom five pct yesterday in moderate trading as month endtightness disappeared and operators took positions for April.    Dealers said they expected rates to remain within a 3.70 tofour pct range this month. A minor tax payment period on behalfof customers mid-month, the long Easter weekend and pensionpayments were unlikely to tighten rates significantly.    Next Wednesday, 14.9 billion marks are leaving the systemon the expiry of a securities repurchase pact. But dealers saidthey expected the Bundesbank to fully replace the outflow witha new tender at a fixed rate of 3.80 pct.    Commerzbank AG's management board chairman Walter Seippcalled on the Bundesbank to reduce interest rates to protectthe mark through bringing the allocation rate for securitiesrepurchase agreements down.    But dealers said the Bundesbank was unlikely to ease creditpolicies at the moment. There was little domestic and foreignpressure for lower rates and no signs of a change.    Yesterday one or two large West German banks effectivelydrained the domestic money market of liquidity in order toachieve higher rates from their overnight deposits, dealerssaid.    Bundesbank figures showed banks held an average daily 50.7billion marks in minimum reserves at the central bank over thefirst 30 days of March, the exact requirement needed just oneday before the end of the month.    Actual holdings on Monday were 42.0 billion marks.    Because rates soared to the level of the Lombard emergencyfunding rate yesterday, banks fell back on the loan facility todraw down a high 5.3 billion marks in an attempt to meetBundesbank needs, the data showed. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED UP The Bank of England said it had revisedits estimate of the shortage in the money market up to 1.3billion stg from 1.2 billion before taking account of its earlyoperations.    The Bank has provided 689 mln stg assistance so far today. REUTER
CURRENCY INSTABILITY WILL NOT LAST - SUMITA Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita saidthe present foreign exchange market instability will not lastlong as there is caution in the market regarding the rapiddecline of the U.S. Unit.    He told reporters the major currency nations are determinedto continue their concerted intervention whenever necessary tostave off speculative dollar selling in line with theirFebruary 22 currency stability agreement in Paris.    Sumita also said he did not see the recent dollar drop asanything like a free-fall. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT REVISED DOWNWARDS The Bank of England said it has revisedits estimate of today's shortfall to around 1.25 billion stgfrom 1.3 billion before taking account of 775 mln stg morningassistance. REUTER
TURKISH CENTRAL BANK SETS LIRA/DOLLAR, DM RATES The Turkish Central Bank set alira/dollar rate for April 2 of 780.00/783.90 to the dollar,down from the previous 777.00/780.89. The Bank also set alira/mark rate of 429.15/431.30 to the mark, up from theprevious 430.50/432.65. REUTER
FED BUYS ONE BILLION DLRS OF BILLS FOR CUSTOMER The Federal Reserve is buying onebillion dlrs of Treasury bills for customer account fordelivery today, a spokesman for the bank said.    Fed funds were trading at 6-3/16 pct at the time of thepurchase, which came several hours before the Fed normallytransacts business for its customers.    Economists said the purchase was almost certainly relatedto the investment of proceeds from recent central bankintervention in the foreign exchanges.    The Bank of Japan alone is estimated to have bought aboutsix billion dlrs in March in a bid to prop up the dollar. Reuter
FINLAND REVISES CURRENCY BASKET The Bank of Finland said it has revisedthe weightings in its currency basket with effect from today.Weightings  match the respective country's share in Finland'sforeign trade.    Weights in percentages compared with former weights.    Dollar  9.0 (8.8)    Sterling 14.3 (13.8)    Swedish crown 20.4 (20.6)    Norwegian crown 5.2 (5.2)    Danish crown 5.2 (5.3)    German mark 19.3 (19.6)REUTER^M
LAWSON WANTS STERLING AROUND 1.60 DLRS, 2.90 MKS U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer NigelLawson said he wanted sterling to stay roughly where it was,specifying a rate of around 2.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs.    He told the National Economic Development Council that therecent Paris meeting of major industrialised nations had agreedon the need for exchange rate stability. There was now a"reasonable alignment of currencies" and the U.K. Governmentintended to keep sterling at about its present level, he said.    That meant around 2.90 marks, which is the single mostimportant rate to concentrate on, and 1.60 dlrs, Lawson said.    His disclosure of two of the key targets for sterling washighly unusual, foreign exchange market analysts said.    In the past he has preferred to be less definite about theGovernment's exchange rate policy, lest it give foreignexchange markets set limits to test.    Lawson told the committee, which is a tripartite forum ofgovernment, unions and industry, that the pound would be keptnear its present level by a mixture of interest rates andintervention in the foreign exchange markets.    The pound finished trading here today at 1.6040/50 dlrs and2.9210/45 marks.    His disclosure of two of the key targets for sterling washighly unusual, foreign exchange market analysts said.    In the past he has preferred to be less definite about theGovernment's exchange rate policy, lest it give foreignexchange markets set limits to test.    Lawson told the committee, which is a tripartite forum ofgovernment, unions and industry, that the pound would be keptnear its present level by a mixture of interest rates andintervention in the foreign exchange markets.    The pound finished trading here today at 1.6040/50 dlrs and2.9210/45 marks. Reuter
CURRENCY INTERVENTION TIMING CRUCIAL - ANALYSTS The dollar's recent decline, despitemassive central bank purchases, is a forceful reminder thatofficial intervention in the foreign exchanges can work only ifit is well-timed to coincide with shifts in market fundamentalsor sentiment, dealers and analysts said.    Central banks may succeed in slowing a trend, but, withoutaccompanying policy changes, they stand little chance ofreversing the direction of an ever-growing global market inwhich more than 200 billion dlrs is traded every day, thesources said.    "Timing and psychology are the key to successfulintervention," said Jim O'Neill, a financial markets economistwith Marine Midland Banks Inc. The importance of complementarychanges in economic fundamentals was underlined yesterday whena change in interest rates boosted the dollar, instantlyachieving what the central banks had tried in vain to do for aweek through open market intervention.    After Citibank raised its prime rate by a quarter-point to7-3/4 pct, the first change in the rate since last August, thedollar started to advance and reached a high in Tokyo of 147.50yen, up two yen from Tuesday's New York low.    By contrast, monetary authorities spearheaded by the Bankof Japan are estimated to have bought as much as 10 billiondlrs in the last 10 days of March but could not prevent thedollar from skidding through 150 yen and plumbing a 40-year lowMonday of 144.70 yen. Some experts worry the central banks havelost more than just a temporary battle to prop up the dollar.The market is wary of being caught wrong-footed by a centralbank foray, but is no longer mesmerized.    "They've lost their credibility. The market feels it cantake on the central banks and win," said Michael Snow, head oftreasury operations at Union Bank of Switzerland in New York.    The relative failure of recent intervention stands in sharpcontrast to the success that central banks scored when theyjoined forces to drive the dollar down following the September22, 1985, Plaza accord.    Then, however, central banks had an easy time of it,because the markets and the Treasuries of the major industrialpowers were agreed that the dollar needed to head lower toredress massive worldwide trade imbalances.    Now, there is no such consensus. The market is saying thatthe dollar must fall further because the U.S. trade deficit isshowing little sign of improvement, while Japan is resisting ina bid to protect its export industries.    For its part, the United States is apparently content tolet the dollar fall gradually further and is paying little morethan lip service to the February Paris agreement of the Groupof Five plus Canada to foster stability, dealers say.    Specifically, they said the Fed's dollar-buyingintervention has been half-hearted, designed more as apolitical gesture to Japan than to strike fear into themarkets. "It's been pro-forma intervention," said FrancoiseSoares-Kemp, chief corporate trader at Credit Lyonnais.    Because of this discord and the market's momentum for alower dollar, analysts said intervention looks doomed to fail.    "It's going to take a lot more than the central banks tohold the dollar (at these levels)," said Snow, who predictsanother 10 to 15 pct depreciation.    "There have to be structural changes that occur to make themarket stop selling dollars," added "Buying six billion dollarsin three weeks is not going to do it."    Late last decade during the presidency of Jimmy Carter,when the dollar was last under heavy speculative attack,central banks sometimes intervened to the tune of six billiondlrs in a single day but still failed to stop the dollarfalling to a record low of 1.70 marks, analysts said.    Snow said purchases on that scale now are unlikely. "Idon't think anybody has the stomach for it, because they sawthe futility of it in the seventies."    Indeed, because the market has grown in leaps and boundsince then, intervention on an even greater scale wouldprobably be needed to impress the market.    Trading volume in London, New York and Tokyo alone lastyear averaged nearly 188 billion dlrs a day, according to ajoint central bank study, about double the previous estimatemade just two years earlier by the Group of Thirty privateresearch group.    There are signs that central banks, too, realize thefutility of swimming against the tide.    Bank of Japan sources told Reuters in Tokyo earlier thisweek that they believed the limits of currency marketintervention are perhaps being reached and that other methodsfor bolstering the dollar, such as invoking currency swapagreements with other central banks, are being considered.    "In this era of financial liberalization, it's almostimpossible to control the flow of capital in and out of Japan,"one senior official in Tokyo said. Reuter
CHIRAC SAYS FRANCE RESOLVED TO SUPPORT CURRENCY PACT French Prime Minister Jacques Chiracsaid that on financial issues, the United States and France had"very close" views, and he said Treasury Secretary James Bakerwas determined to support the February 22 Paris agreement onstabilizing foreign exchange parities.    "I was very reassured by the determination of Mr. Baker tosupport this agreement," he said.    He described the dollar's sharp fall against the yen at thestart of the week as a "passing incident" and added, "Everyone isresolved to support the Paris accord."    Questioned about his plan to help the world's poorestcountries, Chirac said he did not envisage any large-scale debtwrite-offs.    "I don't think we can talk of write-offs - even the poorestcountries have not asked for that," he said.    Chirac said he wanted commercial banks to give third worldcountries better terms in rescheduling their debts, and for theInternational Monetary Fund to soften its conditions.    "One cannot pity the banks - they bear a lot ofresponsibility due to the encouragement they gave to thesecountries to take on debts. Now the banks are complaining but Ido not weep for them." Reuter
FED SAYS IT BUYS 550 MLN DLRS OF BILLS FOR CUSTO French Prime Minister Jacques Chiractold U.S. congressmen France would announce a decision in twoto three weeks on which group is to control its second largestcommunications firm, Compagnie Generale de ConstructionTelphoniques, French sources said.    They said Chirac promised that France's decision would bebased on financial, economic and technical criteria, and not onpolitical grounds.    U.S. and German companies are the leading contenders totake control of CGCT.    The Reagan administration has warned France and Germanythat it may retaliate if control of the company is awarded onpolitical grounds.    Jacques Delors, President of the European Community'sExecutive Commission, called last month for control to go toWest Germany's Siemens AG in order to strengthen Europeanindustry.    The other leading contender is a consortium of AmericanTelephone and Telegraph Co <T> with Philips NV of theNetherlands.    Chirac said France would make public its reasons forawarding control, the sources said. He was asked about thecompany's fate on two occasions, in meetings with leaders ofthe Senate and House of Representatives. Reuter
FED BUYS 550 MLN DLRS OF BILLS FOR CUSTOMER The Federal Reserve bought about 550mln dlrs of U.S. Treasury bills for a customer, a spokeswomansaid.    She said the Fed bought bills maturing from May throughSeptember 24 for regular delivery tomorrow.    Federal funds were trading at 6-3/16 pct when the Fedannounced the operation. Reuter
WORLD RECESSION UNLIKELY - DEUTSCHE'S HERRHAUSEN A world recession is unlikely thisyear as fiscal and monetary policy in most industrializedcountries is supporting the economy, Deutsche Bank AG <DBKG.F>management board joint spokesman Alfred Herrhausen said.    But growth rates will be smaller than last year, with 1.5to 2.5 pct likely in most industrialized countries, he told anews conference.    Herrhausen said he was confident private consumption wouldsupport economic growth in West Germany this year, with netincome increases turning into purchasing power as long asinflation did not revive.    Herrhausen said he did not expect interest rates to rise inWest Germany this year, but there was little room for furtherfalls. Rates in the U.S. were however rising, as evidenced bythe latest prime rate moves, but this rise would be moderate.    Herrhausen said he did not expect any major narrowing ofthe U.S. Trade and budget deficits in the next few months.    One success of the Paris agreement in February to fostercurrency stability was that U.S. Officials have stopped talkingdown the dollar, he noted.    The recent stability would last until markets decided totest the resolve of central banks, he said.    He noted that central banks had spent some 10 billion dlrsthis week to stabilize the dollar against the yen in the firstsuch test.    "A massive attack on the mark, which could come if we getbad news out of the U.S., Would require a much higherintervention amount, raising the danger of inflation," he said.    Turning to the international debt problem, Herrhausen saidBrazil's unilateral debt moratorium had surprised banks.    But the move showed that a real solution to debt problemswas only possible with the involvement of all parties. Reuter
U.K. MONEY RATES HARDEN ON LAWSON CURRENCY TARGETS Money market rates rates showed a harderedge after news U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawsonhas set a target for the pound against the mark and dollar, tobe maintained by a mixture of interest rates and interventionin the foreign exchange markets.    Dealers said the market was surprised by the Chancellor'sdisclosure of sterling target rates, around 2.90 marks and 1.60dlrs, and nervous over the implications for domestic interestrates, further reducing the propects for a near term cut inU.K. Bank base rates. The key three months interbank sterlingrate gained 1/16 point at 10 9-7/8 pct.    The pound opened three basis points lower at 71.3 in tradeweighted terms, at around 1.59 dlrs and 2.91 marks. REUTER
BANK OF FRANCE TO BUY FIRST CATEGORY PAPER TODAY The Bank of France is to inject liquidityagainst first category paper at a tender this afternoon, a Bankspokesman said.    Money market sources were divided as to whether theythought the Bank of France would use the occasion to cut itsintervention rate, which has stood at 7 3/4 pct since it wascut from eight pct on March 9.    Some thought a rate cut unlikely given foreign exchangeturbulence and the U.S. Prime rate rise to 7 3/4 pct, whileothers still counted on a 1/4 point cut by the Bank of France. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 800 MLN STG The Bank of England said it forecast ashortage of around 800 mln stg in the money market today.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills forrepurchase by the market will drain some 664 mln stg whilebills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasurybills will take out around 508 mln stg and a rise in notecirculation some 45 mln stg.    Partly offsetting these outflows, exchequer transactionsand bankers' balances above target will add some 380 mln stgand 35 mln stg to the system respectively. REUTER
RISING TAIWAN DOLLAR CAUSES FOREIGN RESERVES LOSS Taiwan said its foreign reserves sufferedabout 3.4 billion U.S. Dlrs in exchange rate losses from July1986 to February 1987 as a result of the rise of the Taiwandollar against the U.S. Currency.    Yu Chien-ming, head of the government statisticsdepartment, told parliament yesterday he expected the losses toincrease as the Taiwan dollar continues to strengthen.    The Taiwan dollar, which opened at 34.24 to the U.S. Dollartoday, has risen about 16 pct against the U.S. Unit sinceSeptember 1985. Some bankers expect it to rise to 33 by Juneand to 32 by the end of this year.    Taiwan's foreign exchange reserves now total 53 billiondlrs. At end-February they were 52.1 billion dlrs, the world'sthird largest after West Germany and Japan.    Yu said the interest earned from the reserves totalledabout 1.68 billion U.S. Dlrs from July 1986 to February 1987.The reserves are managed by the central bank and deposited atabout 170 leading banks in the U.S., Japan, Britain, Canada andSingapore.    About 75 pct of the reserves are in the form of cash,mostly in U.S. Dollars. The rest are in government treasurybills, certificates of deposit and bonds. REUTER
U.K. MONEY RATES FIRM ON LAWSON STERLING TARGETS Interest rates on the London money marketwere slightly firmer on news U.K. Chancellor of the ExchequerNigel Lawson had stated target rates for sterling against thedollar and mark, dealers said.    They said this had come as a surprise and expected thetargets, 2.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs, to be promptly tested in theforeign exchange markets. Sterling opened 0.3 points lower intrade weighted terms at 71.3.    Dealers noted the chancellor said he would achieve hisgoals on sterling by a combination of intervention in currencymarkets and interest rates.    Operators feel the foreign exchanges are likely to teststerling on the downside and that this seems to make a fall inU.K. Base lending rates even less likely in the near term,dealers said.    The feeling remains in the market, however, thatfundamental factors have not really changed and that a rise inU.K. Interest rates is not very likely. The market is expectedto continue at around these levels, reflecting the current 10pct base rate level, for some time.    The key three months interbank rate was 1/16 point firmerat 10 9-7/8 pct.
JAPAN ASKS BANKS TO MODERATE DOLLAR SALES - JIJI The Finance Ministry has asked commercialbanks to moderate their dollar sales, JiJi News Agencyreported, quoting financial sources.    Finance Ministry officials were unavailable for comment.The report also could not be confirmed by several bank dealers.    Earlier, Japanese trust banking sources said the Ministryhad asked them to moderate their dollar sales.    A Ministry official said earlier this week the ministry hadrecently surveyed currency transactions by investors, butdeclined to say whether this aimed at reducing their dollarsales. REUTER
LAWSON REMARKS DASH HOPES OF EARLY U.K. RATE CUT Chancellor of the Exchequer NigelLawson's remarks yesterday suggesting there are preciseexchange rate targets for the pound undermined sterling,dashing hopes for an early cut in U.K. Base rates, analystssaid.    But the market's reaction, testing exchange rate levelsindicated by Lawson, was probably overdone and the longer termoutlook for sterling remained bullish, they agreed.    In an apparent break with the previous policy of secrecy,Lawson told a National Economic Development Council meeting hewas comfortable with sterling exchange rates around currentlevels, specifying rates of around 1.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs.    Lawson added the U.K. Government intended to keep sterlingat about present levels, using currency intervention andinterest rates to achieve this.    The February 22 Paris agreement of the Group of Five andCanada to stabilise exchange rates is widely believed toinclude target ranges, but all participants to the meeting hadso far refused to specify these.    Markets were quick to react to the statement, choppingabout one U.S. Cent and over one pfennig off the pound to matchthe levels mentioned by Lawson.    But most analysts polled said they did not believe Lawson'sstatement signalled a change in U.K. Policy.    Keith Skeoch, chief economist at stockbrokers James Capeland Co, said, "the remarks have been blown out of proportion.Lawson is paying now for a little bit of a slip of the tongue."    Barclays de Zoete Wedd economist Mark Brett said, "there isnothing great and fantastic in the Chancellor's statement."    He said he did not believe the rates indicated by theChancellor were precise targets, but merely represented centralrates around which sterling would be allowed to fluctuate,perhaps by as much as 10 pct.    "It would be insane to pinpoint an exchange rate ahead of anelection ... I don't believe Lawson is mad enough to tiehimself to a fixed rate," Brett said.    Currency markets were keen for official statements toclarify the scope of the Paris accord and reactivate currencytrading. This mood easily led to over-reaction, analysts said.    "Making similar statements when the market is high strungand ready to bounce is perhaps a mistake," one senior dealerwith a U.S. Bank said.    Capel's Skeoch said, "it gives the foreign exchange marketssomething to shoot at."    "It is obvious that the government, as a member of the Groupof Six, has agreed exchange rate bands. But they are not cut instone, they can change with time," Skeoch said.    Brett said, "we think the 2.90 marks level is a centralrate. Give or take 10 pfennigs and all is fine."    Not all analysts played down the significance of theremarks, however. Chris Dunn, economist at Royal Bank ofCanada, said the remarks may signal a decisive move to insulatesterling from the fortunes of the dollar.    Although about two-thirds of Britain's trade is conductedwith European countries, sterling has traditionally shadowedthe dollar rather than the mark, analysts noted.    "Britain must decide whether it wants to follow the U.S. Orthrow in its lot with Europe," Dunn said.    "It suggests that while the U.K. Is not actually applying tojoin the European Monetary System, it is seeking protection byshadowing it ... The Bundesbank has made it clear that it wantsthe U.K. To clarify its position relative to the mark," he said.    Analysts said sterling's dip on currency markets followingLawson's remarks made an early half-point cut in U.K. Baserates from current 10 pct levels unlikely in the short term.    "Over the next three weeks, a cut is out, unless we get someextremely good economic indicators," Capel's Skeoch said.    Base rates have been cut twice by one-half point in March,the last after the March 17 budget presentation, and analystshad been expecting another half point cut shortly afterwards. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 345 MLN STG ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it had providedthe money market with 345 mln stg help in the morning session.This compares with its forecast of a shortage of around 800 mlnstg in the system today.    The central bank made outright purchases of bank billscomprising 58 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 227 mln stg inband two at 9-13/16 pct, 56 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pctand four mln stg in band four at 9-11/16 pct.    Dealers noted that this was the first time bills in bandfour, which have a maturity of between two and three months,have been dealt in the market since mid-February. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES JUST AFTER TOKYO OPENING The Bank of Japan intervened just afterthe Tokyo market opened, buying dollars at around 147.65 yen,dealers said.    They were unsure of the amount of the central bank'spurchasing, but it seemed to prevent the dollar from weakeningagainst the yen amid bearish sentiment for the U.S. Currency,they said.    The dollar opened at 147.65 yen against 147.20/30 in NewYork and 146.90 at the close here yesterday. REUTER
BUNDESBANK LEAVES CREDIT POLICIES UNCHANGED The Bundesbank left credit policiesunchanged after today's regular meeting of its council, aspokesman said in answer to enquiries.    The West German discount rate remains at 3.0 pct, and theLombard emergency financing rate at 5.0 pct. REUTER
BANK OF FRANCE LEAVES INTERVENTION RATE UNCHANGED The Bank of France said it left itsintervention rate unchanged at 7-3/4 pct when it injected fundsto the market against first category paper in todays moneymarket intervention tender.    Money market dealers had earlier expressed mixed views on apossible quarter point cut.    The rate was last adjusted on March 9, when it was reducedto 7-3/4 pct from the eight pct rate set in January. REUTER
TURKISH CENTRAL BANK SETS LIRA/DOLLAR, DM RATES Turkey's Central Bank set a lira/dollarrate for April 3 of 782.50/786.41 to the dollar, down from780.00/783.90. It set a lira/D-mark rate of 428.30/430.44 tothe mark, up from 429.15/431.30. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 40 MLN STG LATE HELP The Bank of England said it had providedthe money market with around 40 mln stg late assistance. Thistakes the Bank's total help today to some 537 mln stg andcompares with its estimate of a 700 mln stg shortage. REUTER
NEW DUTCH SPECIAL ADVANCES UNCHANGED AT 5.3 PCT The Dutch central bank announced new12-day special advances at an unchanged rate of 5.3 pct tocover money market tightness for the period April 3 to 15.     The amount will be set at tender on April 3 between 0700and 0730 hours GMT.    The new facility replaces the current 4.2 billion guildersof nine-day advances which expire tomorrow.    Money market dealers said the rate for the new advances wasin line with expectations. They added they expect the Bank toallocate between 4.0 and 4.5 billion guilders. REUTER
 Lawson says his sterling target comments were misunderstood, and insig The stock of International BusinessMachine Corp declined slightly today and shares of DigitalEquipment Corp <DEC> rose after brokerage house Morgan Stanleyand Co reiterated a negative opinion on IBM and a buy onDigital, traders said.    IBM, which this morning introduced four new personalcomputers, the first major overhaul of its PC line since itentered the business in 1981, fell 1-3/4 to 149-3/8.    Digital Equipment rose 1-3/8 to 163-5/8.    Analyst Carol Muratore of Morgan Stanley was unavailablefor comment.
LAWSON SAYS HIS STERLING-TARGET COMMENTS WERE MISUNDERSTOOD AND INSIG U.S. Agriculture Secretary RichardLyng said he would not agree to an extension of the 18-monthwhole dairy herd buyout program set to expire later this year.    Speaking at the Agriculture Department to representativesof the U.S. National Cattlemen's Association, Lyng said somedairymen asked the program be extended.    But he said the Reagan administration, which opposed thewhole herd buyout program in the 1985 farm bill, would notagree to an extension.    The program begun in early 1986, is to be completed thissummer. U.S. cattlemen bitterly opposed the scheme, complainingthat increased dairy cow slaughter drove cattle prices downlast year. Reuter
LAWSON SAYS STERLING TARGET COMMENTS INSIGNIFICANT Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawsoncriticised media coverage of comments he made yesterday, whenhe was reported as saying he wanted sterling to stay roughlywhere it was, specifying a rate of around 2.90 marks and 1.60dlrs to the pound.    Holding up a newspaper report on his comments headed"Exchange Rate Targets Set" Lawson told journalists "This story isa complete non-event."    He criticised the report, which said he was now targettingsterling against the dollar and mark. "Nothing of the sortoccurred," Lawson said.    Lawson said he had only told National Economic DevelopmentCouncil panel members what the pound's current dollar/markrates were that day, after saying he was happy with currentsterling levels. He said he had told the NEDC, a tripartiteforum of government, unions and industry, that the pound wouldbe kept near its present level by a mixture of interest ratesand intervention on foreign exchange markets.    He then repeated to the panel that he remained satisfedwith sterling at around its current levels following the Parisaccord in February on currency stabilisation. REUTER
LAWSON SAYS STERLING COMMENTS INSIGNIFICANT Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawsoncriticised media coverage of comments he made yesterday, whenhe was reported as saying he wanted sterling to stay roughlywhere it was, specifying a rate of around 2.90 marks and 1.60dlrs to the pound.    Holding up a newspaper report on his comments headed"Exchange Rate Targets Set" Lawson told journalists "This story isa complete non-event."    He criticised the report, which said he was now targettingsterling against the dollar and mark. "Nothing of the sortoccurred," Lawson said.    Lawson said he had only told National Economic DevelopmentCouncil panel members what the pound's current dollar/markrates were that day, after saying he was happy with currentsterling levels. He said he had told the NEDC, a tripartiteforum of government, unions and industry, that the pound wouldbe kept near its present level by a mixture of interest ratesand intervention on foreign exchange markets.    He then repeated to the panel that he remained satisfedwith sterling at around its current levels following the Parisaccord in February on currency stabilisation. Reuter
EYSKENS SAYS US PRIME RISES WILL AID CURRENCIES Belgian Finance Minister Mark Eyskenswarmly welcomed this week's increase in U.S. Prime rates,calling it a move that went beyond the Group of Five and CanadaParis accord on stabilising currencies.    The rate rise would underpin economic and financial policyconvergence among major countries, he added.    In an interview with Reuters, Eyskens also made clear hebelieved the countries involved in the accord - the U.S.,Japan, West Germany, France, Britain and Canada - had agreed"tentative" fluctuation ranges for exchange rates.    Eyskens was speaking before hosting an informal meeting ofEuropean Community finance ministers and central bank chiefs inBelgium this weekend focusing on the international monetarysituation and proposals for strengthening the European MonetarySystem (EMS).    Asked about the dollar's recent fall on currency markets,Eyskens said he believed the Paris agreement was proving "moreor less workable" despite what he called evident disagreementsover U.S. Economic and monetary policy between TreasurySecretary James Baker and Federal Reserve Chairman PaulVolcker.    Besides Baker's public statements that had dramaticallyinfluenced exchange markets, trade tensions between the U.S.AndJapan had also caused the dollar's fall, expecially against theyen, he said.    But he expressed optimism that Washington and Tokyo couldreach a compromise in their row over semi-conductor trade. "Ithink agreement is quite possible," he said.     Eyskens said he was "very agreeably surprised" by thisweek's quarter-point increase in U.S. Prime rates despite theobvious negative consequences for debtor countries.    "It is a positive element which goes further than the(Paris) Louvre agreement ...It is the market taking account ofits content," he said.    He added that coordination of interest rates was afundamental element of economic and monetary convergencebetween leading industrialised economies.    "A policy of maintaining exchange rates within fluctuationranges is not possible if it is not accompanied at least by amore coordinated policy of interest rates," he said.    Eyskens made clear he believed the G-6 countries had agreedin Paris on ranges in which to hold their currencies.    He said the end of the February 22 Louvre accord, in whichthe partners agreed to cooperate closely to foster exchangerate stability around current levels, clearly alluded to a"system of tentative (fluctuation) margins."    He added the meeting and the statement would have beenmeaningless if the G-6 had not discussed the technicalities ofimplementing it.    Eyskens said there was growing economic convergence amongleading industrialised countries pointing towards greater orderin the international monetary system.    "That doesn't mean we are ready to restore Bretton Woods(the post-World War Two system of fixed exchange rates), butwithin the (International Monetary Fund) Interim Committee weare thinking in terms of target zones, fluctuation ranges to beimplemented and defended," he said.    The Interim Committee meets next week in Washington aheadof the IMF's Spring meetings, and Eyskens said the EC ministerswould prepare for the gatherings at this weekend's talks.    He said he hoped for wide-ranging talks on the future ofthe EMS at the weekend meeting, based on proposals from theEC's Monetary Committee and Committee of Central Bank Governorsfor strengthening the system through technical andinstitutional changes.    Eyskens said he expected EC Commission President JacquesDelors to submit proposals for fully liberalising capitalmovements within the 12-nation bloc and made clear he sharedDelors' view that this must be accompanied by a reinforcementof the EMS. "Both are totally linked. Liberalisation withoutstrengthening the EMS would destabilise the Community," he said. REUTER
BELGIUM SAYS U.S PRIME RISES WILL AID CURRENCIES Belgian Finance Minister Mark Eyskenswarmly welcomed this week's increase in U.S. Prime rates,calling it a move that went beyond the Group of Five and CanadaParis accord on stabilising currencies.    The rate rise would underpin economic and financial policyconvergence among major countries, he added.    In an interview with Reuters, Eyskens also made clear hebelieved the countries involved in the accord -- the U.S.,Japan, West Germany, France, Britain and Canada -- had agreed"tentative" fluctuation ranges for exchange rates.    Eyskens was speaking before hosting an informal meeting ofEuropean Community finance ministers and central bank chiefs inBelgium this weekend focusing on the international monetarysituation and proposals for strengthening the European MonetarySystem (EMS).    Asked about the dollar's recent fall on currency markets,Eyskens said he believed the Paris agreement was proving "moreor less workable" despite what he called evident disagreementsover U.S. Economic and monetary policy between TreasurySecretary James Baker and Federal Reserve Chairman PaulVolcker.    Besides Baker's public statements that had dramaticallyinfluenced exchange markets, trade tensions between the U.S.AndJapan had also caused the dollar's fall, expecially against theyen, he said.    But he expressed optimism that Washington and Tokyo couldreach a compromise in their row over semi-conductor trade. "Ithink agreement is quite possible," he said.     Eyskens said he was "very agreeably surprised" by thisweek's quarter-point increase in U.S. Prime rates despite theobvious negative consequences for debtor countries.    "It is a positive element which goes further than the(Paris) Louvre agreement ...It is the market taking account ofits content," he said.    He added that coordination of interest rates was afundamental element of economic and monetary convergencebetween leading industrialised economies.    "A policy of maintaining exchange rates within fluctuationranges is not possible if it is not accompanied at least by amore coordinated policy of interest rates," he said. Reuter
NIGERIAN NAIRA FIRMS AFTER RULE CHANGE The Nigerian naira firmed  against thedollar, banking sources said, after the rules governing foreignexchange auctions at the central bank were changed.    The marginal rate set at today's auction, from whichreporters were barred for the first time since the sessionsbegan last September, was 3.7001 to the dollar compared with4.0002 at the last session on March 19, the sources said.    Under the new system unveiled on March 20 and in operationfor the first time today, bidding banks must pay for foreignexchange at the rate they bid, rather than as previously at therate of the lowest successful bid.    The measure was aimed at discouraging banks from biddinghigh and thus driving down the naira's value. But bankingsources and other analysts said demand for foreign exchangeremained sharply higher than the available funds.    Henceforth the sessions will be held every fortnight,instead of weekly, and today only 80 mln dlrs was on offercompared with the 50 mln dlrs usually on sale each week.    The rule change appeared to have an immediate impact onbids. Today's highest bid was 4.06 to the dollar, compared witha top bid of 4.25 two weeks ago.    Banks who bid higher than the marginal rate will be able topass on their rate to their customers, while the marginal ratewill only act as a marker for transactions. REUTER
STERLING REBOUNDS ON LAWSON "TARGET"-DENIAL Sterling made a sharp recovery when U.K.Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson described remarks hemade yesterday on targets for the pound as "insignificant,"rallying back up almost exactly to the levels it had fetchedbefore Lawson spoke yesterday, dealers and analysts said.    They said sterling would likely leave the limelight onceagain to trade quietly around current levels, as the marketsset their sights on the dollar, yen and mark again ahead of keyinternational monetary talks in Washington next week.    Sterling ended its European day at 1.6020/30 dlrs,virtually unchanged from yesterday's last 1.6040/50 dlrs,fetched before Lawson's first comment. But it was well up onlevels just above 1.59 dlrs which it had held until the secondcomment came.    Against the mark, sterling recovered to close at2.9190/9240 marks after today's opening 2.9040/90 and lastnight's 2.9210/45.    "On balance, it is as if nothing happened ... We are back towhere we were before," Mark Brett, economist at securities houseBarclays de Zoete Wedd said.    "This whole story is like a storm in a teacup," a dealer witha U.K. Bank commented.    The pound's recovery was triggered when Lawson criticisedmedia coverage of comments he made yesterday, when he told aconference he wanted sterling to stay roughly where it was.    In this context, Lawson was reported to have specifiedrates of around 2.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs to the pound inremarks which markets were quick to interpret as a signal tosell sterling.    Lawson said today he had merely stated yesterday'sapproximate value of the pound.    "The wrong end of the stick was picked up," he toldreporters, adding his comments did in no way signal a change inBritish exchange rate policies.    Dealers and analysts said the reactions to both statementswere clear evidence that the market, frustrated by the relativecurrency stability after the February 22 Paris agreement, wasdesperate to reactivate trading and would react to any cluesoffered about the contents of the currency accord.    In Paris, finance ministers of the Group of Five and Canadaare widely believed to have agreed exchange rate targets,although no participant has specified these in an apparent bidto foster stability by keeping markets guessing.    "The markets are absolutely desperate to get clues on Groupof Six (countries that are part to the Paris agreement) targets... The number of rumours flying around is bigger than everbefore," said Barclays de Zoete Wedd's Brett.    Analysts said neither yesterday's remarks nor today's hadchanged their impression that after Paris, sterling wastargeted to trade in broad ranges against major currencies.     All polled analysts said if anything, the 2.90 marks levelmentioned by Lawson was probably the centre of a wide20-pfennig range which sterling would easily hold, helped bygood economic indicators and relatively high interest rates.    "It would be insane to pinpoint an exchange rate ahead of anelection ... I don't believe Lawson is mad enough to tiehimself to a fixed rate," Brett said. He expected sterling tofirm over the next few weeks, to around 2.95 marks and 1.63dlrs, as overseas investors reappraised high-yieldinginvestments here.    Robin Marshall, chief economist at Chase ManhattanSecurities, said he was not surprised to see Lawson qualify hissterling target comments so quickly.    "His remarks gave markets a target to aim at," he said,adding, "He (Lawson) talked himself into a bit of a corner onthis ... It made him a hostage to fortune."    Marshall and other analysts dismissed a theory, that byquoting target rates Lawson had attempted to put pressure onprime Minister Margaret Thatcher to agree to British membershipof the European Monetary System (EMS), as implausible. Reuter
WHITE HOUSE DISAVOWS YEUTTER COMMENTS ON DOLLAR White House spokesman MarlinFitzwater said that comments made in congressional testimony byTrade Representative Clayton Yeutter do not reflect thegovernment's position.    Yeutter was questioned about the dollar during testimony tothe Senate Finance Committee.     Fitzwater said in a statement Yeutter's comments were inresponse to a hypothetical question "and do not reflect thegovernment's position."    "I want to emphasize that only the president and thesecretray of the treasury are authorized to comment on thedollar," the spokesman said.    Yeutter, asked whether the U.S. trade deficit would improvemore if the value of the dollar dropped further, replied, "Thatshould be a mathematical truism." But he added that markets aremore complicated than that.    He said he expected the current decline in the dollar toshow up soon in the decline in the value of imports. Reuter
NEW DUTCH ADVANCES TOTAL 4.1 BILLION GUILDERS The Duth Central bank said it acceptedbids totalling 4.086 billion guilders at tender for the newtwelve-day special advances at an unchanged 5.3 pct.    Bids up to 30 mln guilders were met in full, amounts aboveat 40 pct.    The new advances, covering the period April 3 to 15,replace the current 4.2 billion guilder nine-day facility at5.3 pct, which expires today.    Money market dealers said the total amount allocated was inline with expectations and would be sufficient to cover themoney market shortage for the duration of the facility. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 700 MLN STG The Bank of England said it has forecasta shortage of around 700 mln stg in the system today.    Among the main factors, maturing assistance and take-up oftreasury bills will drain 546 mln stg, bills for repurchase bythe market 76 mln, a rise in note circulation 310 mln andbankers balances below target 105 mln.    The outflow will be partly offset by 340 mln stg exchequertransactions. REUTER
NO INTERVENTION, DOLLAR FIXED AT 1.8162 MARKS The Bundesbank did not intervene asthe dollar was fixed lower at 1.8162 marks after 1.8270yesterday, dealers said.    The dollar firmed slightly from its opening 1.8135/45 marksin very quiet pre-weekend trading and dealers said theyexpected business to remain thin this afternoon.    "Trading is at an absolute nil, nobody wants to get involvedahead of next week's meetings," one dealer with a U.S. Banksaid, referring to the Group of Seven industrial nations andthe International Monetary Fund meetings in Washington.    Dealers saw the dollar staying at current levels butpossibly rising above 1.83 marks on any supporting remarksemerging from the meetings. "But the dollar's medium-termdirection is soft," one dealer said.    The dollar could well come under renewed pressure after theinternational forums as attention returned to the U.S. And theU.K.'s trade dispute with Japan, dealers said.    Cross currency trading was also subdued though sterling'srise above 1.60 dlrs helped it to firm against the mark. It wasfixed higher at 2.924 marks after yesterday's 2.910.    The pound was seen staying between 2.90 and 2.93 marks forthe next days, dealers said.    Eurodollar deposit rates were steady from this morning,with six month funds unchanged at midpoint 6-11/16 pct. Sixmonth euromarks stayed at midpoint 3-7/8 pct.    The Swiss franc firmed to 119.86 marks per 100 at the fixfrom 119.71 yesterday and the yen rose to 1.244 marks per 100from 1.243.    The French franc was little changed at 30.050 marks per 100after 30.055 yesterday. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT REVISED UPWARD The Bank of England said it has revisedits estimate of today's shortfall to 750 mln stg from 700 mln. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET RECEIVES 170 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it has operatedin the money market this morning, purchasing 170 mln stg bankbills. This compares with the Bank's revised estimate of a 750mln stg shortfall. In band two the Bank bought 72 mln stg at9-13/16 pct, in band three 52 mln at 9-3/4 pct and in band four46 mln at 9-11/16 pct. REUTER
STOLTENBERG SAYS PARIS ACCORD POLICY TO CONTINUE West German Finance Minister GerhardStoltenberg said the currency agreement reached in Paris inFebruary had been successful and would be continued.    Stoltenberg told journalists before he attends next week'sInternational Monetary Fund meeting in Washington that: "The ...Strategy to stabilise currencies around current levels hasproven its worth and will also determine future developments."    Stoltenberg declined to comment specifically on what hewould consider to be an undervalued dollar but said a dollararound 1.80 marks created problems for West Germany's exports.    Stoltenberg said studies by international organisations hadmade it clear that especially in the U.S. And in Japan majorefforts remained necessary to support adjustments in foreigntrade balances via necessary corrections to economic policy.    "No-one would benefit if, after years of over-valuation, theU.S. Dollar fell into the other extreme, that is, strongunder-valuation," he said.    Stoltenberg said West Germany had a keen interest in aswift agreement between the U.S. And Japan concerning thecurrent trade dispute over semi-conductors.    Asked whether he believed the markets would test the Pariscurrency accord, Stoltenberg did not comment specifically butnoted that much of what had been discussed in Paris had notbeen published.    The Paris declaration did not state the levels at whichcentral banks of the major industrialised countries wouldintervene.    Stoltenberg said that everything had been carefullyconsidered. He said he had nothing further to add.    Stoltenberg also appeared to suggest that West Germany wasnow no longer under any pressure from the U.S. Government tostimulate its economy.    He declined to respond specifically to a question on thissubject but said, "You must attach particular importance to theconsensus which was reached in Paris."    The minister nevertheless added that he would make clearduring his trip to Washington that West Germany's nominal tradefigures gave a false impression about actual trade flows.    Stoltenberg noted that in 1986 Bonn's exports fell by anominal two pct while its nominal imports fell by 10.7 pct.West Germany's imports dropped largely because of foreigncurrency developments and the cheaper price of oil and led to arecord trade surplus last year.    However, Stoltenberg said that in real terms West Germany'sexports by volume had increased by 1.5 pct while real importshad risen by a much stronger 6.2 pct.    In this way West Germany had made its contribution toeconomic stability, Stoltenberg added.    Stoltenberg noted the government expected imports to riseby a real four to five pct in 1987 with exports stagnating.    He said it was too early to revise official forecasts forWest Germany's economic growth this year. The government hasforecast an unchanged 2.5 pct rise in Gross National Product.    The Kiel Institute, a leading research body, is stillexpecting growth of three pct but some other researchinstitutes have revised forecasts down to below two pct.Stoltenberg said the wide range of predictions showed how manyimponderables had to be taken into account and said no drasticchanges in official forecasts were needed. REUTER
JAPAN ASKS BANKS TO CUT DOLLAR SALES - DEALERS The Finance Ministry has asked Japanesecommercial banks to moderate their dollar sales, bank dealerssaid.    They said the Ministry had telephoned city and long-termbanks earlier this week to make the request.    One dealer said this was the first time the Ministry hadmade such a request to commercial banks.    Finance Ministry officials were unavailable for immediatecomment. Dealers said the Ministry has already askedinstitutional investors to reduce their sales of the dollar.   REUTER
GERMAN NET CURRENCY RESERVES RISE West German net currency reserves roseby 200 mln marks in the fourth week of March to 82.2 billion,following a rise of 300 mln marks in the previous week, theBundesbank said.    Non-currency reserves were unchanged at about 2.5 billionmarks, bringing net monetary reserves to 84.7 billion. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FURTHER REVISED UPWARD The Bank of England said it has revisedits estimate of today's shortfall to 800 mln stg from 750 mln,before taking account of 170 mln stg morning assistance. REUTER
EC MINISTERS WILL DISCUSS STRENGTHENING EMS FLOAT European Community finance ministersand central bankers meet in Belgium this weekend to discussstrengthening Europe's joint currency float amid continuingworries about turbulence on foreign exchanges.    Belgian Finance Minister Mark Eyskens, who will host theinformal talks, told Reuters the ministers and central bankchiefs would discuss the situation on currency markets in thelight of the February agreement among leading industrialisedcountries to stabilise exchange rates around present levels.    In an interview, Eyskens said he felt the Paris accordbetween the United States, Japan, West Germany, France, Britainand Canada had proved itself "more or less workable."    But doubts over its effectiveness and durability have beengrowing since fears of a trade war between the United Statesand Japan over computer microchips pushed the dollar to arecord low against the surging yen early this week.    The talks, at the Belgian resort of Knokke, are being heldto coordinate the EC's positions on monetary issues and ThirdWorld debt ahead of the Spring meetings of the InternationalMonetary Fund and World Bank in Washington next week.    The EC gathering begins tonight with a dinner but the maindiscussions will take place tomorrow.    Continued international currency turbulence could undermineplans for reinforcing the European Monetary System, the jointfloat holding eight EC currencies within narrow fluctuationbands, which will feature high on the weekend agenda.    Eyskens has repeatedly said that Europe needs a period ofcalm on world currency markets, and in particular a more stabledollar, before it can set about strengthening the EMS to makeit more resilient against exchange rate swings.    The EMS has been taking a battering over the last year asthe falling dollar has sent funds surging into the dominant EMScurrency, the West German mark, forcing ministers to undertaketwo major realignments of parities within nine months.    In the interview, Eyskens made clear he was hoping for awide-ranging discussion on the future of the eight-year-old EMSon the basis of proposals for bolstering it drawn up by theEC's Monetary Committee and the Committee of Central BankGovernors.    The committees were asked to come up with the proposalsafter the last reshuffle of EMS exchange rates in January.    Eyskens repeated calls for the European Currency Unit, thefledgling EC currency at the core of the system, to take overthe mark's dominant role in the EMS - a proposal that has metwith a cool response in West Germany.    He said EC Commission President Jacques Delors would reportto the meeting on problems raised by plans to liberalisecapital movements fully within the 12-nation bloc by 1992, suchas the need for harmonising taxes and banking controls.    Eyskens said liberalisation of capital movements withoutstrengthening the EMS would be an element of destabilisation inthe Community.     He said the crucial issue in the debate was whether memberstates were willing to push further towards the EC's goal ofmonetary integration on the basis of an EMS that includedmanagement of exchange rates by some kind of commoninstitution, instead of by national central banks as atpresent.    Plans for the creation of such an institution, foreseen bythe EMS's founding fathers, have been thwarted by thereluctance of some countries, notably West Germany, to gove uptheir sovereignty in the monetary field.    EMS development has also been held up by Britain's refusalso far to join the system's core exchange rate mechanism. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GETS 347 MLN STG AFTERNOON HELP The Bank of England said it has operatedin the money market this afternoon, buying back bills totalling347 mln stg. This brings the total help so far today to 517 mlnstg and compares with the Bank's revised estimate of an 800 mlnstg shortfall.    The central bank purchased in band one 20 mln stg at 9-7/8pct, in band two 254 mln at 9-13/16 pct, in band three 66 mlnat 9-3/4 pct and in band four seven mln stg at 9-11/16 pct. REUTER
STOLTENBERG SAYS PARIS ACCORD POLICY TO CONTINUE West German Finance Minister GerhardStoltenberg said the currency agreement reached in Paris inFebruary had been successful and would be continued.    Stoltenberg told journalists before he attends next week'sInternational Monetary Fund meeting in Washington that: "The ...Strategy to stabilise currencies around current levels hasproven its worth and will also determine future developments."    Stoltenberg declined to comment specifically on what hewould consider to be an undervalued dollar but said a dollararound 1.80 marks created problems for West Germany's exports.    He said studies by international organisations had made itclear that especially in the U.S. And in Japan major effortsremained necessary to support adjustments in foreign tradebalances via necessary corrections to economic policy.    "No-one would benefit if, after years of over-valuation, theU.S. Dollar fell into the other extreme, that is, strongunder-valuation," he said.    Stoltenberg said West Germany had a keen interest in aswift agreement between the U.S. And Japan concerning thecurrent trade dispute over semi-conductors.    Asked whether he believed the markets would test the Pariscurrency accord, Stoltenberg did not comment specifically butnoted that much of what had been discussed in Paris had notbeen published.    The Paris declaration did not state the levels at whichcentral banks of the major industrialised countries wouldintervene. Stoltenberg said that everything had been carefullyconsidered. He said he had nothing further to add. Reuter
TURKISH CENTRAL BANK SETS LIRA/DOLLAR, DM RATES Turkey's Central Bank set a lira/dollarrate for April 6 of 781.95/785.86 to the dollar, up from782.50/786.41. It set a lira/D-mark rate of 430.15/432.30 tothe mark, down from 428.30/430.44. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO TAKE NO MONEY MARKET ACTION The Federal Reserve is expected to takeno reserve-management action in the U.S. Government securitiesmarket during its usual intervention period, economists said.    They said that, if the Fed does act, it will likely addtemporary reserves indirectly by arranging one to 1.5 billiondlrs of customer repurchase agreements.    Federal funds, which averaged 6.14 pct yesterday, opened at5-15/16 pct and remained there in early trading. Analystsbelieve this probably is about where the Fed wants the fundsrate to be. Reuter
U.S. JOBS DATA SAID TO RULE OUT FED TIGHTENING A steep drop in goods-producing jobsdetracted from U.S. March non-farm payroll employment and makesit unlikely that the Federal Reserve will tighten monetarypolicy to defend the dollar, economists said.    U.S. March non-farm payroll employment rose 164,000, lessthan the gain of 220,000 to 290,000 the financial marketsexpected. Manufacturing employment fell 25,000, compared withFebruary's 50,000 gain, while March construction employmentdropped 45,000 after being unchanged in February.    "The momentum of industrial activity is tapering off as weend the first quarter," said Stephen Roach of Morgan Stanleyand Co Inc. "This sets the stage for more sluggish growth inthe second and third quarters."    "The Fed will view this as a caution flag on the economy,"he said. "They will not ease as long the dollar is weak, butclearly they can't tighten."    David Wyss of Data Resources Inc said that the downwardrevision in February non-farm payroll employment to 236,000from 337,000 means that employment gains in the first quarterwere weaker than expected.    While Wyss left his first-quarter forecast of real U.S.gross national product growth at 3.5 pct, he said the Marchjobs data suggested a downward revision in his second-quartergrowth forecast to 2.5 pct from 2.8 pct.    Bill Sullivan of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc said the averagemonthly gain in non-farm jobs in the first quarter was only237,000, compared with 254,000 in the fourth quarter of 1986.    "There's momentum in first quarter labor force activity, but less than assumed," he said. "Gains in goods-producing jobswere subdued at best. This rules out any possibilty of the Fedtightening for exchange-related purposes."    In March, the average workweek fell back to its Januarylevel of 34.8 hours from 35.0 hours in February. Manufacturinghours also fell back to their January level, totalling 40.9hours in March compared with 41.2 hours in February.    The Commerce Department noted that loss of manufacturingjobs in March was concentrated in automobile, electrical and electronic manufacturing.    Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities International said that a13,000 decline in auto manufacturing employment accounted fornearly half of the total drop in manufacturing jobs.    Economists said that a build-up in auto inventoriesresulting from a steep drop in sales has finally caught up withthe labor force and may point to slower growth ahead.    Most expect an increase in inventories of as much as fivepct to offset a steep four to five pct drop in final sales inthe first-quarter GNP accounts.    Roach said he expects first quarter U.S. GNP to rise twopct, to be followed by a gain of 1.0-1.5 pct at best in thesecond and third quarters. He said the March drop in industrialactivity "is a reasonable response in light of the inordinatecontribution inventory accumulation made to GNP."    Economists said the employment data also suggest weak gainsin industrial production and personal income for March.They expect only marginal gains, if not small declines, forthese indicators, compared with a February increases of 0.5 pctin industrial production and 0.9 pct in personal income.    Steve Slifer of Lehman Government Securities said the dropin March construction employment may also signal a drop inMarch housing starts, which rose 2.6 pct in February to 1.851million units at an annual rate from 1.804 million units inJanuary.    The rate of unemployment fell to 6.6 pct, its lowest levelsince March 1980, from 6.7 pct in February. But Wyss pointedout that this resulted from a drop in the labor force, which fell to 119.2 mln in March from 119.35 mln in February.    "This just means that there were fewer people looking forwork, so the drop in unemployment doesn't mean much," he said.    He said the latest employment report will not concern theFed because it does points to GNP growth in the first half of2.5-3.0 pct, but "it does suggest they can't afford to tightento quickly either."    The statistical factors used to smooth out seasonalfluctuations in the jobs data may have understated March laborforce gains, just as seasonal factors probably overstated themin January and February, Slifer said, but are consistent withhis forecast of 1.8 pct first quarter GNP growth.    Economic growth remains sluggish, but Silfer does not thinkthat the Federal Open Market Committee changed policy at theirmeeting this week. "At some point they will be more inclined toease," he said. For the time being, however, the Marchemployment report "increases the likelihood they won't tighten,regardless of the dollar." Reuter
LAWSON SAYS U.K. ELECTION NOT ONLY EMS BAR British Chancellor of theExchequer Nigel Lawson said the next U.K. Election was not theonly element standing in the way of full British membership ofthe European Monetary System (EMS).    But he added that arguments against joining had weakened.    Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, widely believed to be thestrongest government opponent of full EMS membership, has madeclear she does not expect to consider joining until after thenext UK election, due by mid-1988 at the latest.    But Lawson, in answer to a question, told reporters afteran informal European Community finance ministers' meeting herethat other factors apart from the upcoming election stood inthe way of full membership.    In addition to the question of the exchange rates at whichBritain should enter the EMS's core exchange rate mechanism,there was also the impact of sterling membership on the systemto be considered, he said.    British entry would change the EMS from a monopolar systembased on the West German mark to a bipolar mark-sterlingsystem, he noted. "We have to make sure it would work."    But Lawson added that some of the considerations that hadmade it difficult for Britain to join in the past now posedless of a problem.    As an example he cited sterling's role as a petrocurrency,which he said was diminishing. "That argument has clearlyweakened," he said.    Lawson restated that the government was keeping thequestion of membership under review. REUTER
EC AGREES ON NEED TO STRENGTHEN EMS European Community (EC)finance ministers and central bankers agreed on the need forgreater cooperation to strengthen the European Monetary System(EMS) against international market turbulence, officials said.    "There was a general will to reinforce the European MonetarySystem, with all that implies," Belgian Finance Minister MarkEyskens said yesterday after hosting a one-day session ofinformal talks at this Belgian coastal resort.    The gathering was the first such discussion since thesecond major realignment of EMS parities within nine months inJanuary.    The system has come under severe strain as funds haveflowed out of the slumping dollar and into the dominant EMScurrency, the West German mark, sending it soaring againstweaker currencies in the system.    But Eyskens said February's agreement between leadingwestern industrialised nations to stabilise exchange rates ataround current levels was working and this would allow the ECto speed up its efforts to boost the internal stability of theEMS.    He told a news conference yesterday's meeting agreed on theneed for closer coordination among EMS member governments ofinterest rate policies and of interest rate differentialsbetween different countries.    They also agreed they needed better coordination ofexchange market intervention to hold currencies stable, bothwhen they reached their fixed EMS limits and within theiragreed margins.    But Eyskens said this coordination raised a whole range oftechnical problems and ministers would discuss these further inLuxembourg in June on the basis of proposals from the EC'sMonetary Committee and Committee of Central Bank Governors.    He said the EC needed a set of indicators of economicconvergence betwen Community countries and it was importantthat interest rates fulfilled this role together with exchangerates and inflation rates.    The Belgian minister, whose country presently holds thepresidency of the community, made clear the meeting had notproduced any agreement to move radically forward in developingthe EMS towards the EC's long term goal of economic andmonetary integration.    "We have committed ourselves to reestablishing the normalfunctioning of the system," Eyskens said.    Eyskens has repeatedly stressed that he believes the EMShas to be reinforced if the EC's plans to liberalise allmovements of capital across national borders by 1992 are to goahead.    EC executive Commission President Jacques Delors told themeeting the authority would put forward proposals for a finalphase of capital market liberalisation in October that wouldinclude safeguard clauses for member countries for which themove would create difficulties.    Eyskens said the ministers and central bankers alsodiscussed the need to "dedramatise" realignments of EMS paritiesby letting high-ranking monetary officials carry them out bytelephone rather than calling a meeting of finance ministers.    However, West German sources said Bonn Finance MinisterGerhard Stoltenberg was unenthusiastic about the idea.    British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson toldjournalists that one of the technical issues raised by greatercoordination of exchange market intervention was the questionof which currencies should be used to intervene and held incentral bank reserves.    He said several EMS member countries believed the EMS wouldwork better if central banks held each other's currencies -- anissue of particular importance regarding West Germany since theBundesbank holds only dollars in its foreign exchange reserves.    He said the debate on dedramatising EMS realignmentsreflected a general feeling among participants that the way theJanuary reshuffle had been conducted was unsatisfactory.   The realignment was marked by acrimony between France andWest Germany, with each side blaming the other for strains inthe system that forced the parity overhaul. REUTER
ZAMBIAN CURRENCY FALLS AT FOREIGN EXCHANGE AUCTION The Zambian currency further depreciatedyesterday at the second auction since the introduction of atwo-tier foreign exchange system last month.    The (central) Bank of Zambia said the kwacha was pegged at16.99 to the dollar, compared to last week"s rate of 15 to thedollar.    The bank, which offered six mln dlrs at the auction,reported demand for 13.4 mln dlrs. At the previous auction, thegovernment offered eight mln dlrs.    Last month the government set a fixed exchange rate of ninekwacha per dollar, subject to adjustment against a basket offive currencies, for certain official transactions.    It also introduced a new weekly foreign exchange auctiononly for parastatal organisations and the private sector, wherethe exchange rate is allowed to float in accordance with marketdemand.    The new auction system is designed to be more restrictivethan the previous one, suspended in January after the centralbank fell 10 weeks in arrears to successful bidders.    Under the new system, no bidder, except the the state oilcompany Zimoil and the national airline Zambia Airways, isallowed to bid for more than five pct of the foreign exchangeon offer. REUTER
U.S. CREDIT MARKET OUTLOOK - CAUTIOUS TRADING U.S. Bond trading is likely to remaincautious in the near term with a possible downward price biasas market participants focus on trends in the dollar, theeconomy and Federal Reserve policy, economists said.    Most expect the economy to continue showing modest gains,that the dollar has more room to fall and that the Fed willkeep policy essentially steady, perhaps for several months.    Until trends are clearer, "the market can only attempt to toestablish and hold a new trading range at higher interestrates," said economists at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.    Merrill Lynch economists Raymond Stone and Ward McCarthysaid that while the fundamentals generally bode for a healthyinvestment climate, the market will have no confidence in thisenvironment until there is illumination of and confidence inU.S. Dollar/trade policy.    Salomon Brothers' Henry Kaufman said the bond market,highly sensitized to dollar movements, could be encouraged ifcurrency markets seem to be stabilizing or if U.S. And overseaseconomic growth is perceived as slowing sharply.    "The crucial question, however, is how soon either of thesedevelopments is likely to occur," Kaufman said.    "Market uncertainties and the erosion of portfolio managerconfidence could continue portfolio selling pressure a whilelonger," said Philip Braverman, chief economist at IrvingSecurities Corp.    However, Braverman said that, "from a longer termperspective, current (bond) prices provide a buyingopportunity."    Despite a nearly one-point bond price rebound Friday onunexpectedly weak March employment data, key 30-year Treasurybonds lost 2-1/4 points in price for the week as a whole andThursday's 7.93 pct closing yield was a 1987 high.    Braverman said historical evidence suggests that a longbond yield in the 7.93 pct area provides a basis for optimism.Bonds closed at 7.86 pct on Friday.    The Irving economist noted that three times last year, in asimilar "paroxysm of pessimism," the key bonds reached a similarclosing yield high. Within three to six weeks in each instance,however, Braverman said bond prices recovered to bring theyield down sharply by 63 to 82 basis points.    Mitchell Held of Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co Inc saidthat many portfolio managers now believe yields could approachnine pct by midyear, which he considers unlikely.    Held said that, since late 1986, Smith Barney analysts havespoken about the risk that interest rates could move higher andthey continue to believe that an upward bias is likely topersist over the next few months.    Held said that in conversations with portfolio managerslast week there appeared to be increasing belief that the raterise had just begun and that yields could approach nine pct bymidyear. Naturally, that would mean a sharp bond price fall.    "Yields could rise further over the next few months, but therise should be less than the 65 basis point rise we've seensince the start of the year," Held said.    Most expect Fed policy to be neutral for bonds near term.    "The Fed is currently frozen into a fixed stance," saideconomists at Aubrey G. Lanston and Co Inc.    They said the Fed cannot tighten policy and push upinterest rates as might be appropriate to stabilize the dollarand head off renewed inflationary psychology. That might harmthe fragile U.S. Economic expansion.    The Lanston economists said, "The Fed cannot ease its policystance to both foster more rapid economic growth and calmdomestic and Third World debt jitters without the threat ofcausing a further decline in the dollar."    Minutes of February's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC)meeting released Friday showed that while the FOMC left policyunchanged it was more inclined to firm rather than ease policylater if conditions in the economy, foreign exchange or creditmarkets warranted a policy shift.    However, economists generally believe that continued fairlysluggish U.S. Economic growth and the financial strains on U.S.Banks resulting from their problem loans to developingcountries rule out any Fed policy firming.    There is broad agreement among economists that the FOMC atlast Tuesday's meeting also left Fed policy unchanged.    This week's U.S. Economic data are expected to have littleimpact. February consumer instalment credit numbers are due onWednesday, with March producer price data out Friday.    There may be mild relief in some quarters that the U.S.Purchasing Managers Composite Index, a closely-watched economicindicator, rose only to 53.9 pct in March from 51.9 pct. AFriday rumor had put the number far higher. The index's firstquarter average also was 53.9 pct, translating into real GNPgrowth of about three pct if continued through 1987.    Federal funds traded at 5-15/16 pct late Friday and areexpected to open about there today with no Fed action seen. REUTER
MIYAZAWA SEES BIG NATIONS REAFFIRMING PARIS PACT Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told aparliamentary committee he expects major nations to reafffirmthe currency pact they struck in Paris when they meet this weekin Washington, political sources said.    The Minister also was quoted as saying he expects majornations to take coordinated action to ensure exchange ratestability.    Finance Ministry officials were unavailable for immediatecomment. In Paris on February 22, six nations - Britain,Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany - pledged tocooperate to hold their currencies stable. REUTER
JAPAN CENTRAL BANK INTERVENES IN TOKYO AFTERNOON The Bank of Japan intervened in earlyafternoon Tokyo trading to support the dollar against activeselling by institutional investors and speculative selling byoverseas operators, dealers said.    The central bank had also bought dollars against the yen inmorning trade.    The dollar traded around 145.20/30 yen when trading beganin the afternoon here and weakened only slightly, the dealerssaid. REUTER
 Bundesbank sets 28-day securities repurchase tender at fixed  Rubber futures closed 0.2 to 0.9 yen perkilo down except nearby June which was unchanged at 125.2,despite a higher Singapore market this morning, dealers said.    Prices maintained their decline all day after openingeasier on sporadic stoploss selling due to the dollar's slightdrop against the yen but nearby and mid-term months recoveredslightly at the second afternoon session on small-lot buying inthin trading. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 800 BILLION YEN IN BILLS The Bank of Japan will sell tomorrow atotal of 800 billion yen worth of financing bills from itsholdings to help absorb a projected money market surplus of1,300 billion yen, money traders said.    Of the total, 400 billion yen will yield 3.8502 pct onsales from money houses to banks and securities houses in a41-day repurchase accord maturing on May 19.    Another 400 billion yen will yield 3.7991 pct in a 20-dayrepurchase pact maturing on April 28, they said.    The repurchase agreement yields compare with the 3.8125 pctone-month, and 3.7500 pct three-week commercial bill discountrates today.    Tomorrow's surplus is attributable to government taxallocations to local governments and public entities.    The operation will put outstanding bill supply at about4,300 billion yen, they said. REUTER
NO INTERVENTION, DOLLAR FIXED AT 1.8218 MARKS The Bundesbank did not intervene asthe dollar was fixed lower at 1.8218 marks after 1.8243yesterday, dealers said.    Dealers said dollar trading was very quiet over theEuropean morning, with operators made wary by today's meetingof the Group of Five finance ministers and central bank chiefsahead of the full IMF/World Bank session in Washington.    It was undermined by remarks from U.S. Council of EconomicAdvisers Chairman Beryl Sprinkel who told Iowa bankers the U.S.Had no objective regarding the value of the dollar.    Sprinkel also called the reference to stabilizing exchangerates at about current levels, made at the Paris meeting onFebruary 22, a "vague statement," casting doubt on operators'assumptions that a secret target level had been set.    Sprinkel added that if West Germany and Japan made progressto stimulate their economies as the Paris agreement envisaged,"there would not be the necessity of significant declines in thedollar."    One dealer for a U.S.-based bank noted the dollar tendedeasier after the remarks. "They were obviously regarded as beingnegative. And if the market starts regarding anything thatcomes out negatively then it means that the underlyingsentiment is negative," he said.    Some early selling pressure softened the dollar'sundertone.    Most operators overlooked intervention by the Bank of Japanto support the dollar against selling in favour of the yen byinstitutional investors and overseas operators, dealers said.    After the strong focus on the dollar/yen rate in recentweeks up to the end of the Japanese financial year on March 31,interest and activity was likely to switch, dealers said.    "We can start to look at a point in time where the interestshifts away from dollar/yen and more into dollar/mark and theother European currencies," the U.S. Bank dealer said.    Despite the softer undertone, traders would remain wary oftaking significant new positions during the Washingtonmeetings, dealers said. Aside from the G-5 session today,Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl is due to meet the GermanAffairs group on international monetary issues later.    The mark gained some strength from news the Bundesbank seta new securities repurchase tender to add money marketliquidity at a fixed 3.80 pct, unchanged from those over thelast several weeks. Some expectation had been growing that itmight cut the rate or move to a minimum interest rate tender,signalling a desire for a slight easing in credit policy.    Bundesbank central bank council member Lothar Mueller saidthe Bundesbank had not given up its focus on money supply. Amonetary policy which took into account exchange rates andcapital flows could not be confused with an exchange-rateoriented policy, he said, contradicting some growing sentiment.    Sterling eased a touch to 2.950 marks at the fixing from2.957. The yen's unabated strength, despite the intervention,brought it up to 1.2555 marks per 100 from yesterday's 1.2480.    The Swiss franc rose to a fix of 120.515 marks per 100 from120.180. The French franc eased to 30.055 marks per 100 after30.060, Belgian franc was little changed at 4.829 marks per100. REUTER
JAPAN CENTRAL BANK INTERVENES IN TOKYO AFTERNOON The Bank of Japan intervened in earlyafternoon Tokyo trading to support the dollar against activeselling by institutional investors and speculative selling byoverseas operators, dealers said.    The central bank had also bought dollars against the yen inmorning trade.    The dollar traded around 145.20/30 yen when trading beganin the afternoon here and weakened only slightly, the dealerssaid. REUTER
EGYPTIAN CENTRAL BANK DOLLAR RATE UNCHANGED Egypt's Central Bak left the dollar ratefor Commercial banks for April 8 unchanged at 1.353/67 pounds. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 284 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it provided themoney market with a further 284 mln stg assistance in theafternoon session.    This takes the bank's total help so far today to 508 mlnstg and compares with its revised estimate of a 900 mln stgshortage in the system which it earlier revised up from 850mln.    The central bank made outright purchases of bank billscomprising 100 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 56 mln stg inband two at 9-13/16 pct, 112 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pctand 16 mln stg in band four at 9-11/16 pct. REUTER
VOLCKER SAYS FURTHER SIZEABLE DECLINE IN DOLLAR COULD BE COUNTERPR Turnover on the London InternationalFinancial Futures Exchange (LIFFE) rose to 1.16 mln contractsin March, up from 517,746 a year earlier, figures issued by theInternational Commodities Clearing House (ICCH) show.    Turnover for the whole of the first quarter was 2.87 mlncontracts against 1.52 mln in the same period last year.    The biggest increases in March were seen for gilt options,long gilt futures and short sterling, the ICCH figures show.    Key figures given by the ICCH were as follows-                    March 87     March 86    Gilt options      92,182       19,046    Stg/dlr options    2,640       14,375    FTSE              25,741       10,444    Short sterling   147,863       72,118    20-year gilt     700,102      172,564    Eurodollars      107,988       71,671    T-bonds           72,319      136,749 Reuter
VOLCKER WARNS AGAINST SIZEABLE DLR DECLINE Federal Reserve Board Chairman PaulVolcker said a further large drop in the value of the dollarcould be counterproductive for world economic growth.    Testifying before the Senate Banking Committee, Volckersaid that Europe and Japan were slowing exports and that growthin those countries was also decreasing.    "In that kind of situation, further sizeable depreciationof the dollar could well be counterproductive," he said.    Domestic expansion in foreign industrial countries has notbeen enough to offset the effects of slower exports, Volckersaid.    On the value of the dollar, Volcker said he could not saywhether it should be higher or lower to restore balance intrade.    "What we do know is that a substantial exchange rateadjustment has already been made," he said.    "That adjustment should be large enough, in a context of agrowing world economy and fiscal restraint in the UnitedStates, to support the widespread expectations of a narrowingin the real trade deficit in the period ahead," he said.    Volcker said U.S. exports were now growing substantiallywhile import growth should slow.    Volcker said that to improve the trade deficit with aminimum of inflationary pressure, the United States would haveto slow its spending growth.    It would also have to achieve a better balance betweeninvestment and domestic savings if it wants to be able todispense with foreign capital.    "The constructive way to work in the needed direction wouldbe to reduce our budget deficit, year by year, paving the wayfor improvements in our trade accounts," he said.    Relying on depreciation of the dollar alone would riskrenewed inflation, he said. Reuter
VOLCKER URGES GREATER EXCHANGE RATE STABILITY Federal Reserve Board Chairman PaulVolcker said international policymakers should make improvingthe stability of exchange rates a major priority.    In testimony before a Senate Banking subcommittee, Volckersaid he does not have any specific proposals for improvingexchange rate stability, but thought it was worthy goal.    "I do think we ought to be thinking about and working towardgreater exchange rate stability," Volcker said. "I think that theobjective of greater exchange rate stability ought to loomlarger among our various policy priorities." Reuter
VOLCKER SEES DOLLAR AS FACTOR IN MONETARY POLICY Federal Reserve Board Chairman PaulVolcker said the performance of the dollar in exchange marketscould be a factor in the U.S. central bank's decisions onmonetary policy.    "The performance of the dollar in the exchange market mightbecome a factor bearing on our provision of reserves," Volckersaid in testimony to the Senate Banking Committee.    He said that fiscal policy changes in the United States,Germany and Japan would be more important that intervention toinstill confidence in current exchange rate levels.                       Reuter
FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve is expected tointervene in the government securities market to supplytemporary reserves indirectly via customer repurchaseagreements, economists said.    They said the Fed is expected to execute anywhere from1.5-2.0 billion dlrs of customer repos to offset seasonalpressures on bank reserves.    Federal funds, which averaged 6.20 pct yesterday, opened at6-1/8 pct and remained there in early trading.    Reuter
VOLCKER SAYS RESTRICTIVE MONETARY POLICY WOULD HURT IN World sugar futures tumbled early whensell stops were triggered at 6.60 and 6.55 cents basis the spotcontract, traders said.    Spot May dropped 0.27 cent to 6.52 cents a lb. It opened at6.72 cents.    Trade houses worked both sides of the market, analystssaid.    The decline may have been a continued reaction to themarket's inability yesterday to breach resistance around 6.93cents basis May, which unsettled traders, analysts said.    The market should draw support from buying tenders slatedfor tomorrow and Saturday, they said. Reuter
FED SETS TWO-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASES,  <Alias Research Inc> said it enteredinto a four mln dlr joint venture capital investment withseveral firms led by <TA Associates> of Boston.    Joining TA Associates are <Greylock Management Corp>, and<Crownx> of Toronto, Alias said.    Alias, which develops 3D computer graphics software, saidthe investment capital will be used to support ongoing researchand development and to extend worldwide marketing  initiatives. Reuter
FED SETS TWO-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered thegovernment securities market to arrange two-day repurchaseagreements for system account, a spokeswoman for the New YorkFed said.    Fed funds were trading at 6-1/8 pct at the time of thedirect injection of temporary reserves, dealers said.    Most economists had expected a less aggressive injection ofreserves via customer repurchase agreements. Reuter
DUTCH MONEY MARKET DEBT RISES IN WEEK Loans and advances from the DutchCentral Bank to the commercial banks rose by 1.2 billionguilders to 10.7 billion in the week up to and including April6, the Bank's weekly return showed.    Paper discounted with the Bank also rose, by 477 mlnguilders to 916 mln.    These rises were balanced by a 1.6 billion guilders rise inthe Treasury's account at the Bank, made up mainly ofrepayments on housing loans by local authorities.  TheTreasury's account stood at 8.1 billion guilders, the weeklyreturn showed.    The Bank's gold and currency reserves rose by 484 mln to56.89 billion guilders, while the value of non-gold holdingsrose by 140 mln guilders, analysts said.    They added that the rise in the reserves was merely theresult of commercial currency transactions by the Bank.    Call money and period tariffs were only fractionallychanged this week and were seen sustaining their stable levelssince no dramatic changes in the money market debt, currentlyaround 10.25 billion guilders, are expected.    Today call money traded between 5-3/8 to 5-1/2 pct andperiod tariffs all between 5-5/16 to 5-7/16 pct. REUTER
SENATE EXTENDS DAIRY COMMISSION REPORT The Senate approved legislation toextend until March 31, 1988 the date for the NationalCommission on Dairy Policy to report on the federal milk pricesupport program and the dairy industry.    The report is to recommend whether the AgricultureDepartment should have continued authority to reduce the milkprice support level.    The one year extension was required due to delays insetting up the commission. Reuter
REUTER COMMODITY HIGHLIGHTS 2100 GMT APRIL 7 U.S. trade reprepresentative Clayton Yeutter saidthat if Congress were to require trade retaliation, it wouldonly close markets and would result in less trade.    Many Congressional proposals do not appear to be overtlyprotectionist, yet their undeniable effect would be to closeoff market opportunitites, just as exchange rate movement isunleashing such opportunities for the first time in severalyears, he said in remarks prepared for an address to members ofthe University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business.    CHICAGO - The rally in soybean prices may prompt farmers toplant more soybean acres than the USDA projected in last week'sacreage report, especially if new crop futures stay above thepsychologically important 5.00 dlr a bushel mark, traders andanalysts said.    NEW YORK - Magma Copper Co, a subsidiary of Newmont MiningCorp, said it is lowering its copper cathode price by 0.50 centto 65.50 cents a lb, effective immediately.    LONDON - Brazil is likely to adopt a conservative coffeesales policy given the absence of International CoffeeOrganization export quotas, at least until October this year,according to the latest monthly coffee report from London tradehouse E.D. and F. Man.    LONDON - Delegates to this week's quarterly session of theInternational Tin Council expect Indonesia to vote for anextension of the sixth International Tin Agreement.    HAVANA - Cuban president Fidel Castro told a congress ofthe union of young communists here that the production of crudesugar during the harvest still in progress is 800,000 tonnesbehind schedule.    In a speech Sunday, published in today's official paperGranma, Castro said unseasonable rains since January seriouslyinterrupted harvesting and milling operations, especially inthe central and western parts of the island. Reuter
JAPAN SEEKS TO STRENGTHEN PARIS CURRENCY ACCORD Japan will seek to strengthen theParis accord on currency stability at the meeting of the groupof seven leading industrial nations tomorrow, Japaneseofficials said.    However, the officials travelling with Japanese FinanceMinister Kiichi Miyazawa and who asked not to be identified,would not provide any details of how they wanted the accord,which was signed by the six leading industrial democracies inFebruary, to be strengthened.    Currency target zones, or reference ranges, will not bediscussed at the G-7 meeting which is scheduled for tomorrow,the Japanese officials said.    The meeting, which is being held in conjunction with thisweek's International Monetary Fund/World Bank sessions, willreaffirm the currency pact and there is no need for changing the language used in the Paris accord, the officials said.    Miyazawa met with U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker earlyin this afternoon and discussed the dollar/yen exchange rates,officials said, but they declined to disclosed the details ofthat discussion.    The Japanese officials also declined to detail whatMiyazawa and Baker discussed on the subject of greater jointintervention in currency markets to stabilize the dollar or onindependent American intervention.    The officials said such a money market action to stabilizethe dollar is not only for the benefit of Japan, which issuffering from a sharp appreciation in its currency, but alsofor the benefit of the United States as well.    As to U.S. urgings for Japan to take steps to boost itsdomestic demand to reduce its trade surplus, Japan will explaineconomic measures to the G-7, the officials said.    However, Miyazawa failed to outline the size of theJapanese economic package in his meeting with Baker todaybecause the Japanese 1987/88 budget has not been authorized bythe Diet, or parliament, despite the new fiscal year whichstarted April one, the officials said.    Japan's ruling liberal democratic party revealed its owneconomic package today calling for more than 5,000 billion yenin additional spending. Reuter
CURRENCY FUTURES TO KEY OFF G-5, G-7 MEETINGS News of an agreement among G-5 and G-7finance ministers meeting in Washington this week will be keyto the direction of currency futures at the InternationalMonetary Market, but any such agreement will need to go beyondthe Paris accord to stem the recent rise in futures, financialanalysts said.    "If they (the finance ministers) give the market somethingreally new to look at -- that is, some package that goes beyondthe Paris agreement -- you could have a real boost in thedollar," said Shearson Lehman Brothers analyst Anne Mills.    On the other hand, "anything neutral would tend to bebearish for the dollar," Mills said.    Traders and analysts agree a simple reaffirmation of theParis accord will not be enough to halt the decline in thedollar, nor will central bank intervention.    "A lot of people are looking for a reason to buy currenciesand sell the dollar," said one trader for a large retail firmon the floor of the IMM.    "If there is no concrete resolution, they will be lookingto sell the dollar, possibly down to the 1.80 mark level," hesaid.    Technically, most currency futures are poised for anotherrise, said Smith Barney Harris Upham analyst Craig Sloane.    Sloane noted that June yen futures set a new contract highon Tuesday and closed at its best level ever, while Junesterling set a new contract high on Monday.    "Everything seems to be coming to a head right now and youdon't need much to get things rolling," Sloane said.    In particular, the June Canadian dollar, for which Sloanerecently put out a buy recommendation, has hovered in a rangebetween 0.7600 and 0.7660 in recent weeks, forming a triangleon the charts from which it may soon break out on the upside.    A close above the contract high of 0.7665 would signal abreakout, Sloane said, and would likely mean the nearbyCanadian dollar contract would extend its advance to near the0.7800 level. June Canadian dollar closed at 0.7656 Tuesday.    Mills noted, however, that interest rate differentialsbetween Canadian securities and U.S. securities have narroweddramatically recently, with yields on 10-year Canadian bondsonly about 80 basis points above U.S. 10-year notes.    What has helped the Canadian currency, she noted, is anincreasing proportion of foreign funds flowing into theCanadian equity market, particularly from Japanese investors.    Other analysts, however, said currency futures may be nearthe top of their long-term rally.    "Something will be done at the (G-5 and G-7) meeting tocalm people," said David Horner of Merrill Lynch Economics.    The Paris accord has pretty much fixed where major Europeancurrencies will trade, Horner said.    But sterling futures may still make another run for newhighs, up to 1.6300 to 1.6500 dlr in the June contract, on thepositive atmosphere that will prevail before British electionsand possibly another interest rate cut, Horner said. The JuneBritish pound closed at 1.6080 on Tuesday.    Horner said that new boundaries for the trading range ofthe yen are likely to come out of the G-5 and G-7 meetings.    The most likely range will be a bottom for the dollarbetween 140 to 142 yen per dollar and a top near 150 to 152yen, Horner said. In yen futures, the bottom of the dollar'srange would be equivalent to 0.007100 to 0.007150 in the Junecontract. June yen closed at 0.006913 on Tuesday.    If such a range does emerge from the meetings, "we willhave one more rally in the yen," Horner said. Reuter
POEHL WARNS AGAINST FURTHER DOLLAR FALL Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehlsaid a weaker dollar would be risky and a further appreciationof the mark would damage prospects for sustained West Germaneconomic growth.    In a speech to the Institute of Contempory German Affairshere, Poehl said "It would be an extremely risky policy to aimfor a further substantial decline in the value of the dollar tocorrect the trade deficit."    He said the United States could face a vicious circle ofdepreciation, inflation and more depreciation if it took thatroute.    Poehl noted West Germany had already taken steps to meetU.S. Demands for greater stimulation of its domestic economy,accelerating tax cuts, cutting interest rates and toleratingabove-target money supply growth.    He said he would have been happy to have brought forwardfive billion marks of tax cuts now planned for January 1988 tothe beginning of this year, but he said the government facedpolitical constraints getting such measures through the upperhouse of the West German parliament.    But there were also limits to the impact West Germany couldaccept on exports from a rising mark, he said.    Poehl said West Germany relied on exports for aboutone-third of its gross national product, so a substantialerosion of export markets could not be offset by increasingdemand at home.    "A further appreciation of the mark could even be anobstacle to further growth," he said.    Poehl said the Bundesbank had tolerated rapid money supplygrowth last year because the country enjoyed low inflation andbecause external factors, including low oil prices andfavourable terms of trade, had given some extra leeway.    But Poehl said West Germany now faced a difficult dilemmaover monetary policy.    The underlying rate of inflation was now two pct, not thereported negative inflation rates last year, and West Germanywas affected more than before by exchange rate developments.    "For the time being, we will have to focus our policy moreon the external side, and we can live with a more expansionarymoney supply. But we must be very careful," he said.    He said he shared some of the U.S. Concern about Japan'strade surpluses, which affected European countries as well asthe United States.    Poehl welcomed the so-called Louvre accord of monetaryofficials of major industrialized countries, saying theimportance of the February 22 agreement to stabilize exchangerates had been underestimated.    All partners had agreed that the dollar was at about theright level, and that further changes would damage growth, hesaid.    "This was a remarkable change in attitude, especially on thepart of our American colleagues," he said.    But he said there was still a danger that the correction ofthe dollar's value could overshoot. REUTER
Bank of Japan buys dollars shortly after opening at around 145.30 yen -- The Bank of Japan bought a small amount ofdollars shortly after the opening at around 145.30 yen, dealerssaid.    The central bank intervened as a medium-sized trading housesold dollars, putting pressure on the U.S. Currency, they said.    The dollar was also supported by a major electricalconsumer goods company, which was a speculative dollar buyer ataround 145.25 yen, they added.    The dollar opened at 145.33 yen against 145.60/70 in NewYork and 145.25 at the close here yesterday. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 250 MLN STG The Bank of England said it forecast ashortage of around 250 mln stg in the money market today.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturingin official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drainsome 505 mln stg, while bills for repurchase by the market willremove around 194 mln. In addition, a rise in note circulationand bankers' balances below target will each drain around 110mln stg.    Partly offsetting these outflows, exchequer transactionswill add some 690 mln stg to the system today. REUTER
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - AUSTRALIAN MARKETS BOOMING Australian markets are booming as foreignfund managers redirect capital away from the United States andother traditional markets, analysts said.    High short-term interest rates, a bullish stock market andan increasingly stable currency reflect a massive inflow offresh funds in the last two months, largely from Japanese andU.S. Investors, analysts polled by Reuters said.    Fund managers want quality markets to park their cash inand have settled on Australia, Britain and Canada as theydiversify from volatile U.S. Dollar instruments, they said.    A one percentage point fall in key 10-year bonds rates inthe past month, record share prices and a 10-month high for thecurrency of 0.71 U.S. Dlrs all illustrated the inflow.    Official figures on the latest inflow of investment capitalare not available, but brokers said they received almost dailyinquiries from Japan and the United States.    "These people have got trillions of dollars sloshing aboutand they don't know what to do with it. Some of that is endingup here with the attraction of high interest rates andreasonable currency stability," National Australia Bank Ltdeconomist Brian Hamley said.    "There is a 'flight to quality'," Hamley said. "Australia maynot be in the best (economic) position, but there aren't toomany other countries where you'd want to put your money."    The stronger Australian dollar was also attractinginvestors taking advantage of an appreciating currency againstthe volatility of the U.S. Unit, analysts said.    "We're looking a more favoured market than perhaps the U.S.Where some people would be concerned about the value of theU.S. Dollar," Lloyds Bank NZA Ltd chief economist Will Buttrosesaid. "Why not put the money in Australia where entry is cheapand the currency looks stable?"    But turning that capital into more permanent productiveinvestment depends on government economic policy, he said.    "It will only disappear if people lose confidence in thedirection in the economy," Buttrose said, adding that offshoreinvestors would carefully watch the government's promised tougheconomic statement on May 14.    While happy to invest in bonds and other vehicles yieldinginterest unobtainable elsewhere, fund managers could just aseasily reverse the flow -- particularly the Japanese, who werebadly hurt in the past by rapid falls in the Australian dollarand hefty jumps in bond rates, analysts said.    "It will remain very edgy money. If something was not to bedelivered, if the statement wasn't considered tough enough, onemight see a substantial outflow," Buttrose said.    Offshore investors are eager to see Australia take tougheconomic decisions to curb its 100 billion dlr foreign debt andstubborn current account deficit, analysts said.    "They are giving us the benefit of the doubt and I thinkthey would like to leave the money here," Buttrose said.    Reserve Bank policy has also reflected the increasedinterest in investment in Australia and the need to shieldJapanese investors from rapid currency fluctuations.    Reserve Governor Bob Johnston last week acknowledged anelement of targeting the rate against the yen in currencypolicy when he said authorities could not take their "eyes offthe yen" because of the crucial role of Japanese investors.    Analysts said they believed the Reserve Bank had workedsuccessfully in recent months to keep the Australian dollarwithin the range of 100 to 103 yen.    Apart from its recovery against a weak U.S. Dollar, theAustralian dollar has also risen almost three pct on atrade-weighted basis in the last three weeks.    Offshore buying has also played a role in the boomingAustralian share market. It has followed Wall Street and othermarkets, but is also setting its own trend in response to theweight of both domestic and offshore funds pouring intoequities, particularly in the gold sector.    The key all ordinaries index rose to a record 1,758.3today, nearly 20 pct above its level at the end of 1986, whilethe gold index has nearly doubled to a record 3,081.0 in thesame period.    The property sector is also sought after, with Japanesecompanies that have invested heavily in the United States inrecent years turning their attention to undervalued realestate, particularly in the tourism field.    Analysts pointed to the recent sale of Sydney's five-starRegent Hotel to Japanese interests for more than 145 mln dlrsas indicative of the type of property being sought.    "They think they find good value real estate here which,with long term and fixed capital investment, is the kind ofinvestment Australia needs," Buttrose added. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES SOON AFTER TOKYO OPENING The Bank of Japan bought a small amount ofdollars shortly after the opening at around 145.30 yen, dealerssaid.    The central bank intervened as a medium-sized trading housesold dollars, putting pressure on the U.S. Currency, they said.    The dollar was also supported by a major electricalconsumer goods company, which was a speculative dollar buyer ataround 145.25 yen, they added.    The dollar opened at 145.33 yen against 145.60/70 in NewYork and 145.25 at the close here yesterday. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 53 MLN STG ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it provided themoney market with 53 mln stg assistance in the morning session.    This compares with the bank's estimate of a shortage in thesystem of around 300 mln stg which it earlier revised up from250 mln.    The central bank made outright purchases of bank billscomprising 46 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct and seven mlnstg in band four at 9-11/16 pct. REUTER
POEHL WARNS AGAINST FURTHER DOLLAR FALL Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehlsaid a weaker dollar would be risky and a further appreciationof the mark would damage prospects for sustained West Germaneconomic growth.    In a speech to the Institute of Contempory German Affairshere, Poehl said "It would be an extremely risky policy to aimfor a further substantial decline in the value of the dollar tocorrect the trade deficit."    He said the United States could face a vicious circle ofdepreciation, inflation and more depreciation if it took thatroute.    Poehl noted West Germany had already taken steps to meetU.S. Demands for greater stimulation of its domestic economy,accelerating tax cuts, cutting interest rates and toleratingabove-target money supply growth.    He said he would have been happy to have brought forwardfive billion marks of tax cuts now planned for January 1988 tothe beginning of this year, but he said the government facedpolitical constraints getting such measures through the upperhouse of the West German parliament.    But there were also limits to the impact West Germany couldaccept on exports from a rising mark, he said.    Poehl said West Germany relied on exports for aboutone-third of its gross national product, so a substantialerosion of export markets could not be offset by increasingdemand at home.    "A further appreciation of the mark could even be anobstacle to further growth," he said.    Poehl said the Bundesbank had tolerated rapid money supplygrowth last year because the country enjoyed low inflation andbecause external factors, including low oil prices andfavourable terms of trade, had given some extra leeway.    But Poehl said West Germany now faced a difficult dilemmaover monetary policy.    The underlying rate of inflation was now two pct, not thereported negative inflation rates last year, and West Germanywas affected more than before by exchange rate developments.    "For the time being, we will have to focus our policy moreon the external side, and we can live with a more expansionarymoney supply. But we must be very careful," he said.    He said he shared some of the U.S. Concern about Japan'strade surpluses, which affected European countries as well asthe United States.    Poehl welcomed the so-called Louvre accord of monetaryofficials of major industrialized countries, saying theimportance of the February 22 agreement to stabilize exchangerates had been underestimated.    All partners had agreed that the dollar was at about theright level, and that further changes would damage growth, hesaid.    "This was a remarkable change in attitude, especially on thepart of our American colleagues," he said.    But he said there was still a danger that the correction ofthe dollar's value could overshoot. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 166 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it provided themarket with further help totalling 166 mln stg during theafternoon.    In band one, it bought 31 mln stg of treasury bills andthree mln stg of bank bills at 9-7/8 pct, while in band two itbought 69 mln stg of bank bills at 9-13/16 pct. In addition, itbought 63 mln stg of band three bank bills at 9-3/4 pct.    This brings the total assistance by the Bank so far todayto 219 mln stg against a liquidity shortage it has estimated ataround 300 mln stg. REUTER
TOP OFFICIALS ARRIVE AT TREASURY FOR G-5 TALKS Top officials of leading industrialnations arrived at the U.S. Treasury main building to begin ameeting of the Group of Five.    Officials seen arriving by Reuter correspondents includedWest German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and BundesbankPresident Karl Otto Poehl, French Finance Minister EdouardBalladur and his central banker Jacques de Larosiere.    Also seen arriving were Japanese Finance Minister KiichiMiyazawa and Japan's central bank governor Satoshi Sumita andBritish Chancellor of the Exchequer and central bank governorRobin Leigh Pemberton.    There was no immediate sign of Italian or Canadianofficials. Monetary sources have said a fully blown meeting ofthe Group of Seven is expected to begin around 3 p.m. localtime (1900 gmt) and last at least until 6 p.m. (2200 gmt), whena communique is expected to be issued.    Italian sources said Italian acting Finance MinisterGiovanni Goria met Treasury Secretary James Baker last night.    At those talks Baker apparently convinced Goria, whodeclined to attend the February meeting of the Group of Sevenin Paris, that Italy would participate fully in any meaningfuldecisions. Reuter
J.P. MORGAN<JPM> SAYS DLR MAY PREVENT FED EASING The relatively high level of real U.S.interest rates suggests that there is scope for furtherdeclines in money market rates, but the Federal Reserve isunlikely to promote such a drop as long as the dollar remainsvolatile, said J.P. Morgan and Co Inc chairman Lewis Preston.    He said in response to a reporter's question after thebank's annual meeting that money market rates could declinefurther but, "I don't think the Fed is going to encourage thatas long as the exchange markets are as volatile as they are."    On the other hand, he said that, barring a collapse of thedollar, he did not see rates going much higher.    He said that Morgan's recent rise in its prime lending ratewas "purely a reflection of an increase in a whole spectrum ofrates."    Preston reiterated earlier company forecasts that the U.S.economy should show roughly 2.5 to three pct real growth thisyear.    He also said that as a consequence of the dollar's declineand oil price rises, inflation would rise "moderately" to a 3.5to four pct rate in 1987. Reuter
GROUP OF FIVE MEETING ENDS A meeting of finance ministers andcentral bankers of the Group of Five ended after nearly threeand a half hours.    West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg andBritish Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson declined tocomment on the meeting as they emerged from the U.S. Treasury.    A European monetary official said the ministers of theGroup of Seven countries would gather at about three p.m. local(1900 GMT) at the Treasury. Reuter
BUNDESBANK CALLS FOR CENTRAL BANK COOPERATION Bundesbank board member Claus Koehlercalled on central banks of major industrialised nations tocooperate closely on exchange and interest rate policies.    In a lecture at the University of Surrey, pre-releasedhere, Koehler said that the only alternative to cooperation wasprotectionism and control on capital movements.    "Central banks have sufficient experience of exchange markettransactions to steer exchange rates where they want to havethem," he said. He added that West German growth forecasts wouldhave to be revised downward because of the recent dollar dropto 1.80 marks from above two marks at the start of 1987.    Koehler said that transactions on foreign exchange marketshad parted company with transactions in goods, services andinvestments. It was the scale of speculative transactions thatdetermined market trends.    Speculative inflows could cause monetary aggregates togrow. To reverse such a rise in the money stock, interest rateswould have to be lowered to allow funds to drain off.    "In other words, the monetary policy measures required aredifferent from -- and sometimes diametrically opposed to --those needed when the money stock is increasing as a result ofmounting economic activity," Koehler said.    The dollar fall was one means of reducing the massive U.S.Current account deficit. But attempts to keep the depreciationgoing by talking the dollar down posed problems.    The sharp drop of the dollar had led to an immediate steeprise in the cost of U.S. Imports and a sharp fall in the costof European imports. But the volume effect of falling importsto the U.S. And rising imports to Europe would take time tomake itself felt compared with the price effect.    "Hence the depreciation of the dollar may well be goingfurther than would be necessary to adjust the current accountover the medium term," Koehler said.    A reduction in the U.S. Current account deficit would occuronly if the growth rate of GNP was higher than domestic demand.In Japan and West Germany by contrast, domestic demand shouldrise faster than GNP.    "In Germany this did indeed happen in 1986," Koehler said.    If a further appreciation of the dollar was to beprevented, the U.S. Current account deficit could be offset byan inflow of foreign funds into the U.S..    But only if there was an appropriate interest ratedifferential would Europe and Japan look for financialinvestment in the U.S.    When selecting monetary policy instruments, a central bankhad to pay greater heed than in the past to the impact itsmeasures might have on expectations and consequent decisions.    Koehler said the Bundesbank was changing money market ratesby operating on the open market rather than adjusting leadinginterest rates because of the signal this gives to the marketand its substantial impact on exchange rates.    It was not only important to achieve the domestic goals ofprice stability, economic growth and full employment but alsoto tackle international problems like the exchange rateproblem, the debt problem and the current account problem.    A strategy had to be designed that helped "the safeguardingof non-inflationary economic growth in an internationalmonetary system largely free of disruptions," Koehler said.    Given the system of floating exchange rates, it wasnecessary for central banks to agree to intervene. It sufficedto tell the market where central banks saw exchange rates overthe next few years and intervention points should not be set,because they were only testing points for the market, he said.    In order to keep the international monetary system free ofdisruptions central banks should not only intervene jointly butalso cooperate on interest rate policies, Koehler said. REUTER
G-7 ISSUES STATEMENT AFTER MEETING Following is the text of a statementby the Group of Seven -- the U.S., Japan, West Germany, France,Britain, Italy and Canada -- issued after a Washington meetingyesterday.    1. The finance ministers and central bank governors ofseven major industrial countries met today.    They continued the process of multilateral surveillance oftheir economies pursuant to the arrangements for strengthenedeconomic policy coordination agreed at the 1986 Tokyo summit oftheir heads of state or government.    The managing director of the International Monetary Fundalso participated in the meeting.    2. The ministers and governors reaffirmed the commitment tothe cooperative approach agreed at the recent Paris meeting,and noted the progress achieved in implementing theundertakings embodied in the Louvre Agreement.    They agreed, however, that further actions will beessential to resist rising protectionist pressures, sustainglobal economic expansion, and reduce trade imbalances.    In this connection they welcomed the proposals justannounced by the governing Liberal Democratic Party in Japanfor extraordinary and urgent measures to stimulate Japan'seconomy through early implementation of a large supplementarybudget exceeding those of previous years, as well asunprecedented front-end loading of public works expenditures.    The government of Japan reaffirmed its intention to furtheropen up its domestic markets to foreign goods and services.    3. The ministers and governors reaffirmed the view thataround current levels their currencies are within rangesbroadly consistent with economic fundamentals and the basicpolicy intentions outlined at the Louvre meeting.    In that connection they welcomed the strong implementationof the Louvre Agreement.    They concluded that present and prospective progress inimplementing the policy undertakings at the Louvre and in thisstatement provided a basis for continuing close cooperation tofoster the stability of exchange rates. REUTER
BANK OF FRANCE TO HOLD MONEY MARKET TENDER TODAY The Bank of France said it has invitedoffers of first category paper today for a money marketintervention tender.    Money market operators were divided over whether the Bankof France will use to occasion to cut its intervention rate,which has stood at 7-3/4 pct since March 9.    Some thought a price cut unlikely while others said therewas room for a further 1/4 point cut by the bank. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN BUYS DOLLARS IN TOKYO, DEALERS SAY The Bank of Japan bought a modest amountof dollars at around 145.10 yen just after the market hereopened, dealers said.    Just before the opening, the dollar dropped swiftly asspeculators concluded the Group of Seven (G-7) comminuiqueissued in Washington contained nothing basically new, theysaid. It fell about a half yen, to around 145.    The G-7 reaffirmed that their currencies around currentlevels reflect economic fundamentals.    One dealer said the Bank of Japan probably intervened inAustralia before the opening here, but could not confirm this. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GETS 103 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it operated inthe money market this morning, buying 103 mln stg bank bills.    The central bank bought in band one 60 mln stg at 9-7/8, inband two eight mln at 9-13/16, in band three 26 mln at 9-3/4and in band four nine mln stg at 9-11/16 pct.    This compares with the bank's forecast of a 400 mln stgshortfall today. REUTER
GERMAN MONEY MARKET SPLIT ON LOWER RATE PROSPECTS Remarks by central bankers raised somehopes the Bundesbank will cut rates on securities repurchasepacts, but operators remained divided on the likelihood of amove in the near term, money market dealers said.    Comments by Bundesbank board member Claus Koehler yesterdaythat rate cuts were needed to curb money supply growth fromspeculative capital inflows, and by West Berlin state centralbank president Dieter Hiss that there was no natural lowerlimit to the discount rate had, however, no immediate impact.    Call money declined to 3.65/75 pct from 3.75/85 pct but thedrop was tied to extra liquidity in the market, dealers said.    Dealers said the Bundesbank's latest liquidity allotmentthis week dashed some hopes of lower rates.    The Bundesbank allotted only 6.1 billion marks yesterday innew liquidity in a repurchase pact at an unchanged rate of 3.80pct, thus subtracting some 8.8 billion marks from the market,as an outgoing 14.9 billion pact expired.    But some dealers said the smaller volume awarded by thepact was in line with present liquid money market conditions,and did not exlude a cut in the repurchase pact rate soon to3.70 pct if money market rates continue at present levels.    The next opportunity for the Bundesbank to lower rates onrepurchase pacts will be in a tender expected next Tuesday.    Bundesbank officials have already said they favour morediscreet rate adjustments through repurchase pacts, rather thanthe more public adjustment of leading rates.    The Bundesbank may either set a fixed allocation rate andallow banks to tender for the volume, as has been the casesince it lowered its discount rate January 22, or else it mayallow banks to tender for the rate and set the volume itself.    Dealers expect volume of the tender to be lower than the15.2 billion marks flowing out, to offset other incoming funds.    Some seven billion marks is expected to flow in next week.This should then flow back into the market as it is depositedwith banks.    Banks were well supplied with liquidity, holding 61.5billion marks in reserves at the Bundesbank on Tuesday.    Holdings of average daily reserves over the first sevendays of April stood at 59.6 billion marks, still above theestimated 51 billion required for all of April. REUTER
SWISS TO LAUNCH NEW SERIES OF MONEY MARKET PAPER The Swiss Federal Government will launcha new series of three month money market certificates totallingaround 150 mln Swiss francs, the National Bank said.    Subscriptions close April 14 and payment date is April 16.    The last series of three month paper issued in March raised147.3 mln francs at an issue price of 99.142 pct, giving anaverage annual yield of 3.501 pct.    REUTER
EUROPEAN MARKETS REACT QUIETLY TO G-7 COMMUNIQUE European currency markets reacted quietlyto the G-7 communique, with comments from bankers and dealersranging from disappointment that it was not more concrete tosurprise that the markets should have expected so much.    The dollar opened lower against virtually all currenciesand traded in a narrow range after the communique, whichreaffirmed support for the Paris accord on currencystabilisation but contained no moves to strengthen it.    Frankfurt and Zurich dealers saw the dollar staying broadlyentrenched in its current trading range. REUTER
FINANCE MINISTERS AGREE ON NEED FOR STABILITY Finance ministers from seven majorindustrialized nations agreed on the need to stabilizecurrencies at current levels but said more action was needed toreduce trade imbalances and sustain economic growth.    In a communique issued after a four-hour meeting at theU.S. Treasury that ended last night, the ministers said thevalue of the dollar and other currencies was basically correctnow, and they welcomed new measures planned by the Japanese toboost their economy.    West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg called ita "good meeting" and in brief remarks exchanged with reportersother ministers seemed pleased with its outcome.    Shortly after the communique was issued and just as foreignexchange trading opened in Tokyo, the Bank of Japan intervenedagain to prevent the yen rising too quickly.    The communique said, "The ministers and governors reaffirmedthe commitment to the cooperative approach agreed at the recentParis meeting. They agreed, however, that further actions willbe essential to resist rising protectionist pressures, sustainglobal economic expansion and reduce trade imbalances."    It welcomed the plans set this week by the Japan's rulingLiberal Democratic Party to stimulate its economy with what thecommunique termed "extraordinary and urgent measures" includingan "unprecedented front-end loading of public worksexpenditures."    The meeting of the so-called Group of Seven broughttogether ministers and central bank governors of the sevenmajor industrial democracies, the United States, Japan, WestGermany, France, Britain, Italy and Canada.    The communique said the ministers reaffirmed the commitmenton cooperation reached in a meeting on February 22 in Pariswhen they had agreed to stabilize foreign exchange rates at thethen-current levels.    In the weeks that followed, the dollar continued to fallagainst the Japanese yen despite massive dollar purchases bythe Bank of Japan and other central banks and is now trading ataround postwar lows.    Japan has come under growing criticism from both the UnitedStates and European countries for its only modest efforts toopen its markets to outside competition and to reduce itsexports.    The communique said Japan affirmed its intention to opendomestic markets to foreign goods and services but did notelaborate.    It said the officials "reaffirmed the view that aroundcurrent levels their currencies are within ranges broadlyconsistent with economic fundamentals and the basic policyintentions outlined at the Louvre meeting." Reuter
G-7 ISSUES STATEMENT AFTER MEETING Following is the text of a statementby the Group of Seven -- the U.S., Japan, West Germany, France,Britain, Italy and Canada -- issued after a Washington meetingyesterday.    1. The finance ministers and central bank governors ofseven major industrial countries met today.    They continued the process of multilateral surveillance oftheir economies pursuant to the arrangements for strengthenedeconomic policy coordination agreed at the 1986 Tokyo summit oftheir heads of state or government.    The managing director of the International Monetary Fundalso participated in the meeting.    2. The ministers and governors reaffirmed the commitment tothe cooperative approach agreed at the recent Paris meeting,and noted the progress achieved in implementing theundertakings embodied in the Louvre Agreement.    They agreed, however, that further actions will beessential to resist rising protectionist pressures, sustainglobal economic expansion, and reduce trade imbalances.    In this connection they welcomed the proposals justannounced by the governing Liberal Democratic Party in Japanfor extraordinary and urgent measures to stimulate Japan'seconomy through early implementation of a large supplementarybudget exceeding those of previous years, as well asunprecedented front-end loading of public works expenditures.    The government of Japan reaffirmed its intention to furtheropen up its domestic markets to foreign goods and services.    3. The ministers and governors reaffirmed the view thataround current levels their currencies are within rangesbroadly consistent with economic fundamentals and the basicpolicy intentions outlined at the Louvre meeting.    In that connection they welcomed the strong implementationof the Louvre Agreement.    They concluded that present and prospective progress inimplementing the policy undertakings at the Louvre and in thisstatement provided a basis for continuing close cooperation tofoster the stability of exchange rates. REUTER
G-7 WANTS TO SHOW MARKETS ITS RESOLVE - MIYAZAWA Japanese Finance Minister KiichiMiyazawa said the Group of Seven (G-7) countries reaffirmedtheir Paris accord on stabilising currencies to convince themarket of their resolve.    At a news conference after today's G-7 meeting, Miyazawasaid the ministers and central bank governors did not believe atotally new statement was needed.    The speculative selling did not reflect economicfundamentals, and since the fundamentals had not changed only areaffirmation of the goals of the Paris accord was needed, hesaid.    He also noted that this test of the G-7 nations resolve hadconcentrated on the yen, while other currencies, especially themark, had remained stable.    Miyazawa said any change in economic conditions since theParis accord was not worth being called fundamental.    "As I said at a time of Louvre (agreement), the expressionof 'current level' is rather vague idea," he said.    The yen's movement in the past several weeks is within therange agreed in Paris in Febraury, he said.    It was better to give a vague expression than pin-pointinga level, which could have an adverse impact on the market,Miyazawa said.    Asked why only Japan was committed to fresh measures in thestatement, he said Japan was exceptional among the sevenbecause the yen appreciated against the dollar while othermajor currencies largely have been stable.    He also said Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party hasjusted adoped a package to reflate the economy while othernations are not supposed to produce new measures in a shortperiod since the Paris agreement.    Miyazawa also said the U.S. sanctions against Japanesesemiconductor products was not discussed through the G-7meeting and did not affect the currency talks.    The seven nations discussed the debt problems of developingcountries and ways to proceed in line with the debt initiativeoutlined by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker 18 months ago. REUTER
EUROPEAN MARKETS REACT QUIETLY TO G-7 COMMUNIQUE European currency markets reacted quietlyto the G-7 communique, with comments from bankers and dealersranging from disappointment that it was not more concrete tosurprise that the markets should have expected so much.    The dollar opened lower against virtually all currenciesand traded in a narrow range after the communique, whichreaffirmed support for the Paris accord on currencystabilisation but contained no moves to strengthen it.    Dealers in Frankfurt and Zurich saw the dollar remainingbroadly entrenched in its current trading range.    "The dollar is likely to stay within a range of 1.80 to 1.84marks," said Gisela Steinhaeuser, senior dealer at Chase BankAG. She said there was some resistance to further climbs.    However, she said the dollar could break out of the rangewith major surprises such as a worse-than-expected U.S.Merchandise trade deficit, due next Tuesday.    Theodor Stadelmann, dealer with Bank Julius Baer and Co Ltdin Zurich, said he expects the dollar to hold steady againstthe mark and Swiss franc but to weaken further against the yen,possibly to 140 yen.    A Milan banker shared Stadelmann's view, saying he expectsa dollar-yen range of 140-150 in the short term.    London traders said the G-7 communique failed to curbunderlying bearishness toward the dollar but this negativesentiment was not yet strong enough to tempt interbankoperators to test the downside.    Concern that finance ministers and officials still inWashington could issue more concrete statements in favour ofcurrency stabilisation kept players sidelined, along withworries about provoking fresh central bank intervention in thelong term, the traders said.    Most Paris dealers expressed disappointment at thecommunique, saying nothing has changed to reverse the dollar'sdownward trend.    Traders in several centres said the market would look forfresh opportunities to test the willingness of central banks todefend current ranges, which the communique said were "broadlyconsistent with economic fundamentals and the basic policyintentions outlined at the Louvre meeting."    Dave Jouhin, senior dealer at Midland Bank in London, said"They're going to put somebody's resolve to the test soon." TheU.S. February trade data may provide the trigger, dealers said.    However, some dealers said London-based operators would beunlikely to open major positions next week ahead of the longEaster weekend. They saw near-term technical support at 1.825marks and 145 yen and resistance about 1.83 marks and 146 yen.    Chase Bank's Steinhaeuser and other Frankfurt dealers saidthe G-7 communique guaranteed a relatively calm and stablemarket for the foreseeable future compared with the extremevolatility seen in the first few months of this year.    One dealer at a German bank said the wording of thecommunique made clear the leading nations did not want afurther dollar drop, and this was supporting the dollar.    The German dealer saw the dollar gradually appreciating to1.87 marks, broadly seen as its upper limit within the Louvreaccord's supposed currency target range.    A Swiss bank economist said he believed the markets wereready for a period of "mainly sideways movement."    But Milan dealers were sceptical about the communiquecontributing to greater stability.    "Nothing has changed substantially to give the dollar a bigboost," said one dealer, while another Italian banker said heexpects the dollar to trade between 1.77 and 1.87 German marksin the next three months. Reuter
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT REVISED DOWNWARD The Bank of England said it has revisedits estimate of today's shortfall to 350 mln stg from 400 mln,before taking account of 103 mln stg morning assistance. REUTER
 BUNDESBANK SEES NO REASON TO CHANGE MONETARY  The Bank of England said it has satisfiedits revised estimate of today's shortfall in the money market,providing 261 mln stg assistance in afternoon operations.    The Bank bought in band one, 60 mln stg bank bills at 9-7/8pct and in band two 200 mln stg bank bills and one mln stgtreasury bills at 9-13/16 pct. This brings the total help sofar today to 364 mln stg, compared with its deficit estimate of350 mln stg. REUTER
LEBANESE POUND FALLS SHARPLY AGAINST DOLLAR The Lebanese Pound fell sharply againstthe U.S. Dollar again today with dealers attributing thedecline to continued political uncertainty.    The pound closed at 118.25/118.75 against the dollarcompared to yesterday's close of 115.60/115.80.    "Political deadlock is reflected in the pound's position.There was more demand and less on offer in the market," onedealer told Reuters.    The pound, which was at 18 to the dollar in January, 1986,has lost more than 30 pct of its international value over thepast three months. REUTER
BUNDESBANK SEES NO CHANGE IN MONETARY COURSE The Bundesbank sees no current reasonto change monetary course, vice-president Helmut Schlesingertold Reuters in a telephone interview.    Schlesinger was responding to questions following remarksyesterday by Bundesbank board member Claus Koehler and WestBerlin state central bank president Dieter Hiss, which, dealerssaid, revived some speculation that German interest rate cutsmay once again be under discussion.    Schlesinger said he had no comment on the remarks of histwo central bank council colleagues.    But he added that the last central bank council meeting onApril 2 had discussed the economic situation with a mood of"subdued optimism," particularly influenced by the news broughtby several state central bank presidents.    "Much is going better than the impression gained by thepublic from the January figures, which have been in themeantime superseded," he said.    German January industrial output fell 3.0 pct after adecline of 0.9 pct in December. New industry orders fell 1.9pct after they had been unchanged in December.    Bank economists said that the two together showed theeconomy would either stagnate or contract in the first quarterof 1987.    Aside from the economic developments, Schlesinger added, asteady monetary course was important to hold the dollar/markrate around current levels as Bundesbank president Karl OttoPoehl had said while attending the Washington World Bank/IMFmeeting.    Asked, however, if the Bundesbank could move to cut rateson repurchase agreements at the setting of the next repurchasetender, due next Tuesday, Schlesinger said, "Since the centralbank council gives its opinion on this theme only every 14days, this is hardly probable."    Responding to the question whether the Bundesbank had movedaway from a policy of targetting monetary growth toward one oftargetting currency rates, Schlesinger said he could have nocomment on the subject while negotiations were still inprogress in Washington. REUTER
FED MAY ADD RESERVES TO BANKING SYSTEM The Federal Reserve may intervene inthe government securities market to supply temporary reservesindirectly via customer repurchase agreements, economists said.    They said that while the Fed faces no great urgency to addreserves at the start of the two-week maintenance period todayit would probably do so in order to offset a relatively highfederal funds rate.    Fed funds opened at 6-3/16 pct and remained there in earlytrading. Yesterday, they averaged 6.45 pct, after rising ashigh as seven pct at the close. Reuter
GROUP OF 10 WELCOMES LATEST G-7 AGREEMENT The Group of 10 developed nationsissued a communique welcoming the reaffirmation of the Parisaccord on currency stability by the Group of Seven leadingindustrial democracies yesterday.    In the communique issued this morning, the G-10 said"prospects of member countries' economies would be improved bystability in the exchange rates of their currencies."    The G-10 includes the group of seven - the United States,Canada, Britain, Japan, Italy, West Germany and France - plusBelgium, the Netherlands, Sweden and also Switzerland.    Sources who attended the G-10 conference this morning saidthe reference to the latest G-7 agreement was especially addedto the brief communique because currency stability will benefitall the G-10 members.    The G-10 met briefly before the International Monetary FundInterim Committee meeting scheduled for today.. Reuter
DOLLAR ENDS LOWER IN LACKLUSTRE FRANKFURT The dollar drifted down to end onepfennig lower after a lacklustre session, held in limits by thelack of concrete news from the Group of Seven meeting andcomments on the edge of the Washington IMF/World Bank meeting.    Dealers said the communique early in the European morningfrom the G-7 meeting contained no significant new factors andalthough the dollar dipped it generally resisted furtherattempts to push it lower through the day.    The U.S. Currency ended at 1.8270/80 marks, belowyesterday's last 1.8365/75.    Koch said the assessment of the dollar's direction wasbased on a global view, with operators paying most attention tocomments by finance officials to see how closely they statedadherence to international agreements such as those set at thePlaza Hotel in 1985 and in Paris on February 22.    Koch described the wording of the communique from the G-7as "soft as wax."    Bundebank vice-president Helmut Schlesinger told Reuters ina telephone interview that the German central bank sees nocurrent reason to change monetary course at present.    Schlesinger was responding to questions following remarksyesterday by Bundesbank board member Claus Koehler and WestBerlin state central bank president Dieter Hiss, which dealerssaid revived some speculation that German interest rate cutsmay be under consideration.    German call money was slightly softer today, at around 3.70pct after 3.80 yesterday.    Some dealers said rates on new liquidity injections addedvia Bundesbank securities repurchase agreements may be cut nextweek. Hopes of a cut were dashed on Tuesday with an allocationat an unchanged 3.80 pct.    But speaking of the pact tender rate next week, Schlesingersaid, "since the central bank council gives its opinion on thistheme only every 14 days, this is hardly probable."    Euromark rates scarcely responded to the central bankerscomments, with six months funds ending unaltered at around3-7/8 pct. Eurodollars for the same maturity rose a fractional1/16 pct from yesterday to around 6-11/16 pct.    Sterling dipped to end at 2.952/956 marks after 2.960/965last night. The Swiss franc firmed slightly to 120.30/45 marksper 100 from 120.25/40, with the yen soaring however to1.2570/90 marks per 100 from 1.2515/35 yesterday.    EMS currencies saw the French franc end unchanged from lastnight at 30.03/06 marks per 100, with the Belgian franc easinghowever to 4.829/831 marks per 100 from 4.831/833. REUTER
LAWSON SEES NO CHANGE IN U.K. MONETARY POLICY British Chancellor of the ExchequerNigel Lawson said he saw no immediate implications for Britishmonetary policy arising from the Group of Seven meetingyesterday.    "Exchange rate stability is in the U.K.'s interest," he toldjournalists.    Asked what it meant for U.K. monetary policy, he said, "No,I do not think there are any immediate implications." Reuter
U.S. TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS RATE SHIFTS ORDERLY Treasury Secretary James Baker saidthat changes in exchange rates have generally been orderly andhave improved the prospects for a reduction in externalimbalances to more sustainable levels.    In remarks before the IMF's policy-making InterimCommittee, Baker reiterated a Group of Seven statement lastnight that the substantial exchange rate changes since thePlaza agreement 18 months ago have "now brought currencieswithin ranges broadly consistent with economic fundamentals."    Baker said, "These exchange rate shifts have generally beenorderly, and have improved prospects for the reduction ofexternal imbalances to more sustainable levels."    As they are today, the trade and current account imbalances"simply are not sustainable," Baker told the ministers.    He said that the Reagan administration was resisting "strongdomestic pressure" for trade protection and was working closelywith the U.S. Congress in crafting a trade bill.    "While we cannot yet be sure of the outcome, we are doingwhat we can to ensure that the bill is not protectionist," hesaid.    Baker also urged the International Monetary Fund'sexecutive board to review possible modifications to the Fund'scompensatory financing facility before the annual meeting thisfall.    "We should pay particular attention to the lack ofcontinuing conditionality associated with the use of the CFFand to whether shortfalls in export earnings are indeedtemporary," he said. Reuter
FED BUYING DOLLARS FOR YEN IN OPEN MARKET, NEW YORK DEA Lloyd's of London has offered to meetpart of the 235 mln stg in claims that investors in PCWUnderwriting Agencies face due to fraud and mismanagement,chairman Peter Miller said at a press conference.    Miller urged 3,000 PCW members to accept the offer so thatthe five-year-old affair could be closed.    The members have until May 30 to accept the offer,involving a 103 mln stg payment by Lloyd's and some of Lloyd'sunderwriters in exchange for a 34 mln stg contribution from PCWmembers, he said.    Miller said that at end-1985, PCW syndicates had grossliabilities of 680 mln stg.    To offset this, they had assets, including cash andpayments from reinsurance policies on some of the risksunderwritten by the syndicates, of 445 mln stg, leaving netliabilities of 235 mln, he said.    The total sum on offer, including a 48 mln stg payment fromLloyd's 311 mln stg contingency fund and 55 mln stg fromLloyd's brokers who could otherwise face court cases for theirinvolvement in PCW, is designed to cover the full reinsurancecost for those 235 mln stg of net liabilities, Miller said.    Under the offer, which requires 90 pct acceptance, Lloyd'sitself would take over all members' future obligationsconnected with the PCW syndicates, Miller said. Members wouldhave to agree not to pursue the matter in court.    Miller said a rejection of the offer would probably lead toprotracted litigation in court which, even if succesful formembers, was unlikely to produce a better deal for them.    He added that acceptance would mean members could continueunderwriting in the Lloyd's market and qualify for tax reliefon the cash payments they would make towards the settlement.    Miller denied that PCW members would face bills of over200,000 stg.    He said only 34 members would be asked to pay between100,000 and 200,000 stg, and about 100 between 60,000 and100,000 stg. Special arrangements would be sought for those whoaccept the offer but are unable to pay.    Miller said the offer did not imply Lloyd's acceptedresponsibility for the affair, uncovered in the late autumn of1982 when "it became quite clear that (PCW agency founder) PeterCameron Webb and (his partner) Peter Dixon had perpetratedtheft upon members," he said.    Part of the sum involved was subsequently recovered andrepaid to members, but Cameron Webb and Dixon left the affairsof PCW syndicates "in a state of chaos which led to a sharpdeterioration of their underwriting results," Miller said. Bothwere fined by a Lloyd's disciplinary committee and expelledfrom membership.    He said Lloyd's would continue to seek reparation inBritish and U.S. Courts "with the utmost vigour ... To bring toa close one of the most shameful episodes in the history ofLloyd's," and was contemplating claiming the full amount of thesettlement now on offer from Cameron Webb and Dixon.    In a reaction, insurance brokerage Sedgwick Group Plc<SDWK.L> said it supported Lloyd's proposals and hadcontributed 10 mln stg towards the proposed settlement.    It said in a statement, "as largest broker in the Lloyd'smarket, the company has an essential interest in maintainingthe reputation of the market. That reputation has been damagedby problems at PCW and will continue to be so as long as theyremain unresolved." It had contributed to the proposedsettlement to avoid costs related to the defence of some of itssubsidiaries which had been named as potential defendants tolitigation by PCW members, it said. Reuter
FED SEEN BUYING DOLLARS FOR YEN IN OPEN MARKET The Federal Reserve was detected buyingdollars for yen in the open market as the dollar fell to a40-year low of 144.60 yen in nervous late morning trading,currency dealers said.     They said the size of the intervention was relativelymodest so far but it was a clear indication that the U.S.remained committed to the late February Paris currencystabilization accord, which was reaffirmed in Washington lastnight.    A Fed spokeswoman had no comment on the dealer reports.    The dollar hovered around 144.70 just before midday. Reuter
FRANCE'S BALLADUR SAYS TARGET ZONE NOTION NEARER French Finance Minister EdouardBalladur said that the financial community is closer toarriving at a system of target zones for currencies despite thefact that little is being said about them.    Speaking with reporters at the semiannual meetings of theInternational Monetary Fund, Balladur said, "We are not very farfrom the notion of target zones, even if we don't say so."    He told reporters that "our ideas are progressing," addingthat the finance ministers have been talking about morecooperation on economic policies and on levels around whichcurrencies should stabilize. Reuter
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS FLOATING EXCHANGE RATE SYSTEM NEEDS GREATER S Crude oil netback values in complexrefineries rose sharply in Europe and firmed in the U.S. lastFriday from the previous week but fell sharply in Singapore,according to calculations by Reuters Pipeline.    The firmer tone to refining margins in Europe and the U.S.relected higher prices for petroleum products, particularlygasoline, and support from crude oil prices.    Netback values for crude oil refined in Northern Europerose substantially following strong gains in gasoline pricesthere. Brent is valued at 19.45 dlrs, up 56 cts a barrel orthree pct from the previous week.    In the U.S. Gulf, sweet crudes rose in value by 14 cts to19.33 dlrs for West Texas Intermediate, up about 0.7 pct.    Sour grades in the U.S. Gulf showed an increase of 33 cts abarrel for Alaska North Slope, up 1.7 pct.    But netbacks for crude oil refined in Singapore fellsharply, down 15 cts to as much as 68 cts a barrel as ampledistillate supplies weighed on petroleum product prices.    Attaka in Singapore is valued at 18.55 dlrs, a decline of68 cts a barrel or 3.5 pct from the previous week.    For refineries in the Mediterranean, netback values weremostly lower, with declines of seven to 14 cts. The value ofKuwait crude fell 14 cts to 18.37 dlrs, while Iranian Lightfell 11 cts to 19.14 dlrs.    On the U.S. West Coast, netback values for ANS CIF L.A.also jumped sharply, up 40 cts a barrel or 2.2 pct to 18.82dlrs on higher gasoline prices. Reuter
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS SYSTEM NEEDS STABILITY Treasury Secretary James Baker saidthe floating exchange rate system has not been as effective ashad been hoped in promoting stability and preventing imbalancesfrom emerging in the global economy.    In remarks before the afternoon session of theInternational Monetary Fund's Interim Committee, Baker said hewas not suggesting that the system should be abandoned.    "But I do suggest," he said, "that we need something to giveit more stability and to keep it headed in the right directionwhen the wind shifts."    He said that indicators can serve "as a kind of compass" butadded that structural indicators can help focus attention onsome policies.    Baker, however, said the IMF "needs to move beyondmacroeconomic indicators and find structural indicators thatcan help focus attention on some of the policies of specificrelevance to the imbalances we face today."    The Treasury Secretary said that indicators should be givena more prominent role in the annual economic reviews -- ArticleIV consultations -- that the Fund performs.    Baker also told the policy making group that it was timefor the IMF to adopt earlier recommendations making IMFsurveillance more relevant to national policymakers and thepublic.    "In particular, we urge increased publicity for IMFappraisals developed in Article IV consultations, the use offollow-up reports on country actions to implement IMFrecommendations, and greater use of special consultationprocedures," he said.    Baker emphasized that indicators were a device "for movingbeyond rhetoric to action."    He said they provide "more structure to the system, andinduce more discipline and peer pressure into the process ofpolicy coordination."    He said the Fund's procedures for surveillance need to bereviewed and updated to reflect the use of indicators.    "This should be matter of priority for the executive board,"he said.    Baker also urged the Fund to develop alternativemedium-term economic scenarios for countries that "can help usfocus even more clearly on the most important imbalances, byidentifying options for addressing them and analyzing theimplications of these options."    He said also that further work should be done on findingpaths that lead toward possible medium-term objectives.    "If we are to take effective remedial action when there aresignificant deviations from an intended course, then we musthave more definitive ways of indentifying the right course forkey variables," he said. Reuter
U.S. DOLLAR LOSSES PROPEL BROAD COMMODITY GAINS Commodities from gold to grains tocotton posted solid gains in a flurry of buying today as lossesin the U.S. dollar and rising interest rates kindled fears ofinflation and economic instability.    Gains were most pronounced on the Commodity Exchange in NewYork, where gold jumped 12.40 dlrs and closed at 436.50 dlrs atroy ounce, and silver 22.5 cents to 6.86 dlrs a troy ounce.    A key factor behind the advance was anticipation thatinflation will be the only way for the major industrial nationsto halt the slide in the value of the U.S. dollar, said SteveChronowitz, director of commodity research with Smith Barney,Harris Upham and Co., in New York.    The dollar tumbled one day after top finance officials fromthe seven largest industrial nations reaffirmed theircommitment to support its value, and despite reports ofintervention by the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank, traders said.    Traders said it appears that the industrial nations, knownas the Group of Seven, lack the ability to change the long-termdirection of the currency markets.    "Maybe they have some ideas or plans," said Chronowitz. "Ifthey do, it's not evident."    "It looks like there's no cure but to let the free markettake values to where they should be.    "One way or another, we will force our major tradingpartners to stimulate their economies," as a measure to correctthe mounting U.S. trade deficit, Chronowitz said.    "I think the markets believe, and have believed for a longtime, that the only recourse is to reflate at some point. It'sgoing to be a long and tedious process, but that's what'shappening," he said.    The falling value of the dollar makes U.S. commoditiescheaper for foreign buyers, stimulating demand.    At the same time, traders who are holding stocks and bondssaw the value of their investments falling and many are turningto commodities such as precious metals as a hedge, said MartyMcNeill, a metals analyst in New York with the trading house ofDominick and Dominick.    The reaction in the metal markets reverberated throughoutthe commodities markets, as grains, livestock, and cottonposted broad gains.    Traders at the Chicago Board of Trade said attention in thegrain markets has shifted from concern about burdensomesupplies to the outlook that a lower dollar will stimulateexport demand.    After the close of trading, the Agriculture Departmentraised its estimate for grain imports by the Soviet Union bytwo mln tonnes from the month-earlier report.    Live hogs and frozen pork bellies posted sharp gains on theChicago Mercantile Exchange, while live cattle were moderatelyhigher.    Analysts said several factors boosted hog prices. They saidhogs haven't been making the weight gains that are normal atthis time of year, and farmers have been too busy with fieldwork to market animals. Reuter
ANALYSTS DOUBT FED FIRMED DESPITE BORROWING RISE Economists said that they doubt theFederal Reserve is firming policy to aid the dollar, despitehigher discount window borrowings in the latest two-weekstatement period and very heavy borrowings Wednesday.    Data out today show net borrowings from the Fed averaged393 mln dlrs in the two weeks to Wednesday, up from 265 mlndlrs in the prior statement period. Wednesday borrowings were1.4 billion dlrs as Federal funds averaged a high 6.45 pct.    "One could make a case that the Fed is firming, but itprobably isn't," said William Sullivan of Dean Witter Reynolds.    Sullivan said some may assume the Fed has firmed policymodestly to support the dollar because net borrowings in thetwo-weeks to Wednesday were nearly 400 mln dlrs after averagingaround 250 mln dlrs over the previous two months.    However, the Dean Witter economist noted that the latesttwo-week period included a quarter end when seasonal demandoften pushes up borrrowings.    "Some might argue that the Fed was firming policy, but itlooks like it tried to play catchup with reserve provisionslate in the statement period and didn't quite make it," saidWard McCarthy of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.    A Fed spokesman told a press press conference today thatthe Fed had no large net one-day miss of two billion dlrs ormore in its reserve projections in the week ended Wednesday.    Still, McCarthy said it may have had a cumulative miss inits estimates over the week that caused it to add fewerreserves earlier in the week than were actually needed.    The Fed took no market reserve management action lastThursday and Friday, the first two days of the week. It addedtemporary reserves indirectly on Monday via two billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements and then supplied reservesdirectly via System repurchases on Tuesday and Wednesday.    Based on Fed data out today, economists calculated that thetwo-day System repurchase agreements the Fed arrranged onTuesday totaled around 5.9 billion dlrs. They put Wednesday'sovernight System repos at approximately 3.4 billion dlrs.    "It is quite clear that the Fed is not firming policy atthis time," said Larry Leuzzi of S.G. Warburg and Co Inc.    Citing the view shared by the other two economists, Leuzzisaid the Fed cannot really afford to seriously lift interestrates to help the dollar because that would harm already weakeconomies in the United States and abroad and add to thefinancial stress of developing countries and their lenders.    "Those who believe the Fed tightened policy in the lateststatement period have to explain why it acted before the dollartumbled," said McCarthy of Merrill Lynch.    He said the dollar staged a precipitous drop as a newstatement period began today on disappointment yesterday'sWashington meetings of international monetary officials failedto produce anything that would offer substantive dollar aid.    In fact, currency dealers said there was nothing inWednesday's G-7 communique to alter the prevailing view thatthe yen needs to rise further to redress the huge tradeimbalance between the United States and Japan.    The economists generally agreed that the Fed is aiming forsteady policy now that should correspond to a weekly averageFed funds rate between six and 6-1/8 pct. This is about wherethe rate has been since early November.    "I'm not so sure that the Fed is engineering a tighterpolicy to help the dollar, as some suspect," said Sullivan ofDean Witter.    If it is, however, he said that Fed probably has justnudged up its funds rate goal to around 6.25 to 6.35 pct fromsix to 6.10 pct previously. Reuter
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES TO BUY DOLLARS AROUND 143.70 YEN - The dollar opened at a record Tokyo lowof 143.75 yen despite aggressive Bank of Japan intervention,dealers said.    The previous record low was 144.70 yen set on March 30. Theopening compares with 143.90/144.00 yen at the close in NewYork.    The central bank bought dollars through Tokyo brokers justbefore and after the market opening, the dealers said.    The intervention took place when the dollar fell to 143.20yen, one dealer said.    The dollar opened at 1.8155/60 marks against 1.8187/97 inNew York.    The dollar fell as low as 142.90 yen despite central bankintervention at 143.00 yen, dealers said.    Selling pressure was strong from securities houses andinstitutional investors in hectic and nervous trading onunderlying bearish sentiment for the dollar, they said.    Most dealers were surpised by the dollar's sharp fallagainst the yen in New York, although many had expected such adrop to happen eventually.    Institutional investors are expected to sell the dollaraggressively if it rises to around 143.50 yen, dealers said.    The U.S. Currency steadied well above 143.00 yen after Bankof Japan intervention and scattered short-covering, they said.    The dollar opened at 1.5120/30 Swiss francs against1.5085/00 at the New York close.    Sterling started at 1.6190/00 dlrs against 1.6195/05. REUTER
DOLLAR FALLS BELOW 143 YEN IN TOKYO The dollar fell below 143 yen in hecticearly Tokyo trading despite aggressive Bank of Japanintervention, dealers said.    After opening at a Tokyo low of 143.75 yen, the dollar fellas low as 142.90 yen on heavy selling led by securities firmsand institutional investors, they said. REUTER
U.S. MARKETS OFFER GLIMPSE OF VOLCKER NIGHTMARE Today's turmoil in the U.S. Financialmarkets, with bond and stock prices tumbling in the dollar'swake, is evidence of a major shift in investor psychology thatis likely to spell more turbulence ahead, economists said.    For two years, the markets had hailed the dollar's declineas the cure-all for the U.S. Trade deficit. Interest rates fellsharply and Wall Street became a one-way street, up.    But that confidence is now cracking as the financialmarkets suddenly believe Fed chairman Paul Volcker'soften-repeated warnings about the risks of a dollar collapse.    "Volcker's been saying for a long time that a dollarfreefall would be extremely dangerous - now he's got it," saidDavid Jones, economist at Aubrey G. Lanston and Co Inc.    The dollar fell below 144 yen today for the first time in40 years as the Group of Seven finance ministers in Washingtonfailed to convince the foreign exchange market that they have acredible strategy for redressing global trade imbalances, shortof further depreciation of the dollar.    Bonds suffered their biggest one-day drop in months amidworries that the dollar's slide will rekindle inflation, scareaway foreign investors and force the Fed to tighten credit.    The inflationary fears boosted gold bullion by more than 12dlrs to a 1987 high of 432.20/70 dlrs an ounce, while the spikein interest rates pulled the Dow Jones Industrial Average downby 33 points to 2339.    Norman Robertson, Mellon Bank chief economist, called themarkets' instability frightening. He believes economicfundamentals do not justify the bearishness but said that "onceyou start the ball rolling it's difficult to stop."    "There's a stark possibility that you could get adestabilizing drop in the dollar that forces up interest ratesand drives us into recession. The markets are in a panic."    Stephen Marris of the Institute for International Economicsin Washington, has been warning for a long time that thecontrolled decline of the dollar since peaks of 3.47 marks and264 yen in February 1985 could turn into a nightmare.    "We're still more or less on track for a hard landing... Butthe agony may be fairly drawn out," Marris told Reuters.    Marris does not expect the crisis to peak until later thisyear, but he warned that the situation is so fragile that itwould take very little to touch off what he calls the secondphase of the hard landing, whereby a loss of confidence in thedollar pushes up interest rates and leads to a recession.    The stock market's reaction today and its sharp drop onMarch 30 shows how the loss of confidence could come about.    The fact that it has not happened yet is consistent withhistorical experience, which teaches that domestic markets arenot affected until a currency is in the final stages of itsdecline, Marris said. He has forecast a drop to about 125 yen.    Marris felt that a major impetus for the dollar's latestweakness was the loss of credibility that central bankssuffered when they failed to prevent the dollar from fallingbelow 150 yen, the floor that the market believes was set aspart of the G-7 Paris agreement in February.    Robertson at Mellon, by contrast, said the loss ofconfidence was triggered last week when Washington announcedplans to slap 300 mln dlrs of tariffs on Japanese electronicimports, raising the specter of a debilitating trade war.    Many economists believe that long-run stability will notreturn to the markets until the root cause of the trade gap isaddressed - excessive consumption in the U.S., Reflected in themassive budget deficit.    But in the short term, given the failure of the G-7 and ofcentral bank intervention, some feel that the Fed will have nochoice but to tighten credit to restore faith in the dollar.    "The only thing that will stop the dollar falling is asubstantial increase in the discount rate and a correspondingcut abroad, at least by Japan," said Lanston's Jones.    Marris expects the Fed to act quickly to raise interestrates, even at the risk of increasing the debt burden forAmerican farmers, Latin American governments and others.    But Robert Giordano, chief economist at Goldman Sachs andCo, scoffed at the notion. "It's ridiculous to think the FederalReserve will raise interest rates when the dollar is weakagainst just one currency. This is yen strength, not dollarweakness," he said.    Giordano said the market was ignoring the progress beingmade toward reducing the U.S. Budget deficit.    "We're going to have one of the biggest reductions in thebudget deficit relative to GNP in history this year, and nobodycares," he said, noting that only the deficit cut in 1968-69will have been greater.    He said he does not expect the dollar to collapse andthinks interest rates are likely to fall back later this year.    But for now, market psychology has changed so abruptly thata further drop in the bond market cannot be ruled out. "Put onyour helmets," Giordano said. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN ACTIVELY BUYING DOLLARS AT AROUND 142.20 YEN IN TOKYO - China is negotiating with Pakistan tobuy 5,000 tonnes of cotton this year, after importing the sameamount last year under a barter agreement, Chinese consulatesources said.    Chinese ambassador Tian Ding told a meeting of Pakistaniindustrialists on Thursday that China intended to increaseimports from Pakistan to reduce a trade imbalance.    Pakistani officials estimate the country's cotton outputfrom the current crop at a record 7.6 mln bales (375 poundseach). Last year's output totalled 7.2 mln bales and domesticconsumption was just below three mln bales, they said. REUTER
JAPAN CENTRAL BANK ACTIVELY BUYS DOLLARS IN TOKYO The Bank of Japan actively bought dollarshere in early afternoon trade at around 142.20 yen, dealerssaid.    The central bank had placed buy orders at that level andprevented the dollar from falling when it came under heavyselling pressure from investment trusts and trading houses,they said.    However, the intervention failed to boost the U.S. Currencysignificantly from the 142.20 yen level, they added.    The dollar was trading around its midday rate of 142.30yen. It had opened here at 141.85 yen. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 400 MLN STG The Bank of England said it forecast ashortage of around 400 mln stg in the money market today.    Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturingin official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drainsome 1.085 billion stg.    Partly offsetting these outflows, a fall in notecirculation will add some 340 mln stg, exchequer transactionsaround 300 mln and bankers' balances above target about 50 mln. REUTER
KENYA DEVALUES SHILLING BY 0.6 PCT AGAINST SDR Kenya devalued the shilling by 0.6 pctagainst the special drawing right (SDR) in response to thedecline of the dollar last last week, bankers said.    The Central Bank of Kenya set the shilling at 20.7449 tothe SDR compared with the 20.6226 rate in force since the lastdevaluation on March 31.    The Kenyan shilling has lost 5.6 pct of its value againstthe SDR this year in a series of devaluations designed to keepthe value of the dollar above 16 shillings. REUTER
SAUDI RIYAL DEPOSITS SURGE ON U.S. RATE RISE Saudi riyal interbank deposit ratessurged across the board as banks tried to build long positionsin anticipation of a further rise in U.S. Interest rates,dealers said.    They said traders expected riyal deposits to follow therecent strong rise in eurodollar rates sparked by fears of atighter U.S. Monetary policy to halt the dollar's slide.    "There was a wave of panic buying early in the morning aspeople tried to cover gaps and build long riyal positions," saidone dealer. As a result, riyal deposits were strongly bid andtraders scrambled for any available offers.    One-way trade focused mainly on the fixed periods but shortdates also rose, dealers said. Spot-next and one-week depositsclimbed to 6-5/8, 1/8 pct from 6-3/8, six on Sunday.    One-month deposits rose to 6-1/2, 3/8 pct from 6-1/4, sixand three-month deposits climbed to 6-3/4, 5/8 pct from 6-9/16,7/16. Six-month deposits also firmed to 7-1/8, seven pct from7-1/16, 6-7/8 on Sunday.    The spot riyal was steady at 3.7500/03 to the dollar afterquotes of 3.7498/7503 yesterday. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 800 BILLION YEN IN BILLS The Bank of Japan will sell 800 billionyen in deficit financing bills today through 51-day repurchaseagreements maturing June 3 to help absorb a projected moneymarket surplus, money traders said.    The operation will raise the outstanding supply of thebills to a record 4,800 billion yen.    The yield on the bills for sale to banks and securitieshouses from money houses will be 3.8999 pct compared with thetwo-month commercial bill discount rate today of 3.8750 pct andthe two-month certificate of deposit rate of 4.13/00 pct.    The traders estimated the surplus today at about 1,800billion yen.    They said it is mainly due to 1,300 billion yen ofgovernment tax allocations to local governments and publicentities and to excessive banking system cash holdings due tocontinuous large central bank dollar purchases. REUTER
YIELD ON 91-DAY SAMA DEPOSITS RISES The yield on 91-day bankers securitydeposit accounts issued this week by the Saudi Arabian MonetaryAgency (SAMA) rose to 6.43896 pct from 6.21563 a week ago,bankers said.    SAMA lowered the offer price on the 500 mln riyal issue to98.39844 from 98.45313 last Monday. Like-dated interbankdeposits were quoted today at 6-3/4, 5/8 pct.    SAMA offers a total of 1.9 billion riyals in 30, 91 and180-day accounts to banks in the Kingdom each week. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 75 MLN STG ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it had providedthe money market with 75 mln stg help in the morning session.This compares with the Bank's estimate that the system wouldface a shortage of around 400 mln stg today.    The central bank bought bank bills outright comprising twomln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct, 15 mln stg in band three at9-3/4 pct and 58 mln stg in band three at 9-11/16 pct. REUTER
JAPAN CENTRAL BANK ACTIVELY BUYS DOLLARS IN TOKYO The Bank of Japan actively bought dollarshere in early afternoon trade at around 142.20 yen, dealerssaid.    The central bank had placed buy orders at that level andprevented the dollar from falling when it came under heavyselling pressure from investment trusts and trading houses,they said.    However, the intervention failed to boost the U.S. Currencysignificantly from the 142.20 yen level, they added.    The dollar was trading around its midday rate of 142.30yen. It had opened here at 141.85 yen. REUTER
CURRENCY MOVES MAY BE HURTING WORLD TRADE Japanese trade figures are seriouslychallenging the entrenched view of policy makers of the Groupof Seven industrialised nations that relative currency ratesare the key to smoothing world trade problems.    Senior Japanese, U.S. And European officials in Tokyo saythey are at a loss to fully explain the data, for if currenciesare the key they ask, why then are are U.S. Exports to Japanshrinking?    What if manipulating currencies and driving the dollar downmade world trade problems worse rather than solving them,fulfilling Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker's forecast ofworld trade recession?    U.S.-Japan trade has declined even after a 40 pct dollarfall against the yen since the September 1985 Group of Fivepact in New York.    The lower dollar ought to have made U.S. Exports 40 pctmore competitive in Japan. The officials, most of themeconomists, can offer no objective reason why they are not.    Worse, how are European Community sales to Japan risingrapidly when the European Currency Unit has until now declinedonly 11 pct against the yen.?    Last week's G-7 meeting in Washington has been widelyinterpreted as a sign from the policy makers that the dollarmust go lower. So worst of all, what if Volcker is correct?    At a loss to give an objective explanation, officials canonly offer explanations which tend to be highly subjective.    "I don't know and I don't think anyone knows," said HughRichardson, acting head of the EC delegation in Tokyo.    "What I do know is that Community exporters are making ahell of an effort in this market. If you make an effort, thereis money to be made in Japan," he added.    But U.S. Officials and businessmen are convinced low U.S.Exports to Japan are Japan's fault. They cite restrictive tradepractices, protected Japanese trade sectors, such asagriculture, and non-tariff barriers, such as unreasonablechecking and customs procedures for car imports.    Publicly, Japanese officials remain conciliatory in theface of what they see as U.S. Aggression. In private, theyblame U.S. Industry for being uncompetitive.    "We see it that way, but we don't like to seem arrogant,"said a senior official, who declined to be named. "We like torefrain from accusing them of not making enough effort."    Industrialists such as Eishiro Saito, chairman of theKeidanren business group, and Sony Corp chairman Akio Moritarepeatedly accuse foreign firms of not making enough effort tounderstand Japan's markets, and some foreigners agree. "The realissue is the inability of major sectors of American andEuropean industry to compete not only internationally but evenin their home markets," Peter Huggler, President of InterallianzBank Zurich, told a recent conference in Switzerland.REUTER...^M
ZAMBIA'S KWACHA FALLS AT WEEKLY AUCTION The Zambian kwacha fell at this week'sforeign exchange auction to 18.75 kwacha to the dollar fromlast week's 16.95, the Bank of Zambia said.    The rate was the lowest since the auctions resumed twoweeks ago under a new two-tier exchange rate system worked outwith the World Bank and International Monetary Fund.    The Bank of Zambia said it received 370 bids, ranging from13.00 to 20.75 kwacha, for the six mln dlrs on offer. Onehundred and thirty-five bids were successful.    A British High Commission spokesman said Britain would puteight mln stg into the auction at a rate of one mln a week assoon as Zambia reached a full agreement with the IMF.    The money could be spent only on goods produced andsupplied by British firms, excluding luxuries and defenceequipment, the spokesman added. Reuter
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 68 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it provided themarket with a further 68 mln stg assistance this afternoon,bringing its total assistance on the day to 143 mln stg.   Shortly before, the Bank said it had revised its estimateof the shortage up to 450 mln stg from the earlier forecast of400 mln.    During the afternoon, the bank bought 22 mln stg of bandtwo bank bills at 9-13/16 pct and two mln stg of localauthority bills plus 44 mln stg of bank bills in band four at9-11/16 pct. These rates were in all cases unchanged fromprevious intervention levels. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN LATE HELP OF 210 MLN STG The Bank of England said it gave themarket late assistance of around 210 mln stg, bringing itstotal help on the day to some 353 mln stg.    This compares with the Bank's estimate of the liquidityshortage of around 450 mln stg, raised from its early forecastof 400 mln stg. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO SET THREE-DAY REPURCHASE PACTS The Federal Reserve is expected toenter the U.S. Government securities market to add temporaryreserves directly by arranging three-day System repurchaseagreements, economists said.    They said the Fed may add the reserves indirectly insteadvia a large round, two billion dlrs or more, of customerrepurchase agreements.    Federal funds, which averaged a high 6.35 pct on Friday,opened at 6-7/16 pct and traded between there and 6-1/2 pct. Reuter
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange 1.5 billion dlrs ofcustomer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.    Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-1/2 pct whenthe Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves tothe banking system.    Most had expected the Fed to supply reserves directly viaSystem repurchase agreements or to add them indirectly throughtwo billion dlrs or more of customer repurchase agreements.Some believe the Fed is adding fewer reserves than are neededto keep upward pressure on rates and so help the dollar. Reuter
U.S. BANKS LIKELY TO LIFT PRIME RATES AGAIN SOON Major U.S. banks may lift primelending rates again within days due to recent increases intheir borrowing costs and speculation the Federal Reserve isnudging up interest rates to help the dollar, economists said.    In what was the first prime rate boost since mid-1984, mostbanks in early April lifted their rates a quarter point to7-3/4 pct, citing a reduced gap between the prime and their owncost of money. That spread has narrowed again.    "A prime rate increase could happen as soon as tonight,"said Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities Co International Inc.    Brusca said a quarter-point prime rate rise to eight pct isjustified because the spread between banks' cost of funds andthe prime rate has narrowed to less than three quarters of apercentage point.    He said that spread had averaged around 1.4 percentagepoints since last October until it fell below one point andtriggered the April prime rate rise at most banks.    "We could easily have another prime rate increase as soonas this week," said David Jones of Aubrey G. Lanston and Co.    "We've got a fairly good chance of a prime rate rise in thenear future," said Allan Leslie of Discount Corp.    "Based on the spread between the prime rate and fundingcosts, you would ordinarily see a prime rate increase now,"said Harold Nathan, economist at Wells Fargo Bank.    However, he said banks may be reluctant to lift the primebecause that would dampen already fairly weak business loandemand and because some are not sure the Fed will maintainrecent upward pressure on money market interest rates.    Nathan believes the Fed has let market pressures liftshort-term rates in recent days to help the ailing dollar. Hesaid "if there is widespread belief money market rates willstay high, a prime rate rise could occur at any time."    Fed officials have long expressed concern that too steep adollar drop could help rekindle U.S. inflation. As the dollarfell to a 40-year low against the yen Friday, currency traderssaid the Fed and other central banks supported the dollar.    In addition to buying dollars outright, another way tostabilize the U.S. currency would be for the Fed to push U.S.interest rates higher relative to overseas rates.    Based particularly on the Fed's reserve management actionson Friday and today, Nathan of Wells Fargo said "it has becomeclear that the Fed is not fully resisting upward rate pressurein the market. It is supplying fewer reserves than are needed."    Bank funding costs and other short and long-term interestrates rose sharply Friday and today on heightened speculationthat the Fed is gently firming monetary policy.    That was because the Fed supplied far fewer reserves in themarket than most economists had expected.    On Friday, the Fed added reserves indirectly and in smallamounts via one billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreementswith the Federal funds rate at which banks lend to one anotherhigh at 6-5/16 pct. With funds trading even higher at 6-1/2 pcttoday, the Fed arranged only a slightly larger 1.5 billion dlrround of customer repurchase agreements.    "The Fed's actions on Friday and today show that it isoffering only token resistance to upward funds rate pressures,"said Jones of Lanston.    "The Fed is focusing its policy attention mainly on theneed to defend the dollar," Jones said. He believes it ismerely shading policy toward restraint now, "but to have amajor impact on the dollar, the Fed will have to tighten policyovertly at some point."    Jones expects the Fed to foster higher market rates bybecoming more restrictive in supplying reserves and, withinfour to six weeks, to raise its discount rate from 5-1/2 pct.    Jones said a U.S. discount rate increase to six pct mightwell be accompanied by West German and Japanese rate cuts tofurther aid the dollar.    Given likely Fed policy firming, he said both the yield on30-year Treasury bonds (about 8.30 pct now) and the prime ratemay be at 8-1/2 pct at end-June and nine pct by year's end.    "The jury is still out on whether the Fed is tighteningpolicy to defend the dollar," said Leslie of Discount Corp. Hesaid tax-date pressures have been pushing up Fed funds lately.Leslie said Fed actions and reserve data once these pressuresabate will show whether or not it is firming policy.   Reuter
Bank of Japan intervenes to support dollar after Tokyo opening, The Bank of Japan intervened in Tokyo tobuy dollars just after the market opened, dealers said.    The dollar opened at 142.05 yen against 142.15/25 in NewYork and 142.50 at the close here yesterday.    The bank stepped into the market amid selling pressure frominterbank dealers, dealers said. REUTER
Bank of Japan intervening to support dollar against yen, Japan's broadly defined money supplyaverage of M-2 plus certificate of deposits (CD) rose apreliminary 9.0 pct in March from a year earlier, compared withan 8.8 pct rise in February, the Bank of Japan said.    The seasonally adjusted March average of M-2 plus CDs rose0.8 pct from February when it rose an identical 0.8 pct from amonth earlier, it said.    Unadjusted M-2 plus CDs stood at an average 343,600 billionyen in March compared with 336,015 billion in February. REUTER
JAPAN'S LDP TO CALL FOR FLEXIBLE MONETARY POLICIES Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party(LDP) will call for adequate and flexible management of thenation's monetary polices in its plan to expand domesticdemand, a senior LDP official told Reuters.    Junichiro Koizumi, the head of the LDP committee workingout the plan, said the phrase should not be taken as implyingan immediate cut in Japan's 2.5 pct discount rate.    "The LDP generally believes that there is no need for afurther discount rate cut at the moment," he said. But Koizumisaid the LDP does not rule out a rate cut if necessary in thefuture.    Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita told a pressconference on Wednesday that the central bank does not have anyintention of easing credit conditions. REUTER
WHITE HOUSE SAYS U.S. MONETARY POLICY CORRECT The White House,distancing itself from remarks by the administration's budgetchief, said the Federal Reserve's current course of monetarypolicy was appropriate.    "The administration feels that the current course ofmonetary policy is appropriate," White House spokesman MarlinFitwater said.    Fitzwater said the administration did not endorse remarksby White House budget chief James Miller, who said he wasconcerned the Federal Reserve might overreact to the decline inthe value of the U.S. dollar by raising interest rates. More
BUNDESBANK SETS NEW REPURCHASE TENDER The Bundesbank set a new tender for a28-day securities repurchase agreement, offering banksliquidity aid at a fixed bid rate of 3.80 pct, a central bankspokesman said.    Banks must make their bids by 1400 GMT tomorrow and fundsallocated will be credited to accounts tomorrow, April 22.Banks must repurchase securities pledged on May 20. REUTER
WORLD BANK SUGGESTS MORE OPEN ECONOMY FOR INDIA The World Bank has suggested Indiashould move to a more open economy by gradually removing mostgovernment controls on industry and adopting a liberal externaltrade policy with reduced levels of protection.    A confidential "executive summary" of a draft Bank report onthe Indian economy was made available to Reuters. It suggestsliberalisation as part of a package of reforms to boost exportsof Indian goods by making them more competitive.    The summary said, "These reforms would result in (domestic)prices much more in line with world prices than is true today,and in a greater degree of import competition and exportrivalry than the nation has ever seen."    The summary said foreign trade must play a key role inIndia's transition towards a more dynamic economy. Liberalimports of capital goods would help modernise the economy andexpose Indian producers to foreign competition. Larger exportswould provide the foreign exchange for imports.    "The main guideline is unambiguously to abandon the presentprinciple of unlimited protection for all indigenouslyavailable products and to recognise the role of actual orpotential competition from imports as a source of discipline onthe prices and costs of public and private sector domesticmanufacturers," the summary said.    An Indian official told Reuters the government wasdiscussing the report with the Bank. A final report with somechanges was likely to be ready by May, but he declined to givefurther details.    The Bank and industrialised nations will discuss the Bank'sfinal report at a meeting in Paris on June 22 and 23 to discussaid for India in the 1987/88 year starting in June.    The summary said India's gross domestic product (gdp) grewat an average five pct in Indian fiscal years 1985/86 and1986/87, which ended in March.    It said investment was being sustained at nearly 25 pct ofgdp. Almost 94 pct of the investment was being financed bynational savings, mainly from the private sector.    India's trade deficit is officially said to have narrowedto 5.6 billion dlrs in 1986/87 ended March, from a record 6.96billion dlrs in 1985/86. The current account deficit fell to2.4 billion dlrs in 1986/87 from 2.88 billion in 1985/86.    But the summary said the improvement was largely due tolower prices of crude oil, petroleum products and fertiliserswhich make up the bulk of India's import bill.    India was able to save about 2.6 billion dlrs in foreignexchange in 1986/87 due to lower prices of those products, thesummary said.    The Bank's summary said there was little room forcomplacency in the balance of payments position.    It said that despite a lower trade deficit in 1986/87,Indian foreign exchange reserves fell by 240 mln dlrs.    Real export growth would need to average at least 6.1 pct ayear in value terms in the coming years to maintain a viablebalance of payments, the summary said.    It did not explicitly suggest the rupee should be devalued.India "might have to reaffirm the commitment to exporting whileundertaking some dramatic changes in general incentives thatinvolve some political costs," it said.    "An example of such a policy would be the adoption of anexchange rate regime that maintained exporters' profitability,"the summary said.    It said such an approach had been successful in countriessuch as South Korea, Colombia and Turkey. It would maintain thecompetitiveness of Indian exports and simultaneously reduceimport pressures.    Earlier this year, the Indian government denied that theWorld Bank asked it to devalue the Indian rupee to boostexports. REUTER
BELGIUM CUTS TREASURY CERTIFICATE RATES The Belgian National Bank said it cutits one, two and three month treasury certificate rateseffective immediately.    It said in a telex message the key three month rate wasreduced by 0.05 points to 7.25 pct, the two month rate by 0.10points to 7.20 pct and the one month rate by 0.15 points to7.15 pct.    The Bank last adjusted its short-term treasury certificaterates on April 3, when all three rates were cut by 0.10 points.    It has made regular small reductions in rates afterhoisting the three month rate 0.50 points to 7.90 pct and theother rates to eight pct on January 6 ahead of the realignmentof the European Monetary System.    The National Bank bought more than 7.91 billion francs offoreign currency in the week ended April 13, a National Bankspokesman said last week. Foreign exchange analysts noted thisreflects the current strength of the Belgian franc. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN BUYS MODERATE DOLLAR SUM -- DEALERS The Bank of Japan intervened in themarket to try to accelerate the dollar's rise after heavydollar buying by institutional investors, dealers said.    The central bank bought a moderate amount of dollars ataround 142.10 yen, they said. REUTER
SWISS NATIONAL BANK SELLS YEN AGAINST DOLLAR The Swiss National Bank sold yen againstdollars, joining in concerted intervention by central banks, aspokesman for the National Bank said.    He declined to say which central banks had been active inthe market, but earlier today Tokyo dealers said the Bank ofJapan had intervened at 142.10 yen to the dollar, and marketsources here said they believed the Bundesbank was in themarket as well.    The National Bank spokesman declined to specify the volumeof its dollar purchases or the rate paid. REUTER
BUNDESBANK INTERVENES TO BUY DOLLARS AGAINST YEN The Bundesbank intervened in the openmarket to buy dollars against yen, dealers said.    They were responding to enquiries immediately after newsthe Swiss National Bank said it joined concerted interventionto sell yen for dollars.    The Bundesbank had no immediate comment on the reports.    But dealers said the German central bank came into themarket just after 1300 GMT when the dollar was trading around141.90 yen to buy small amounts of the U.S. Currency. Dollartrading had been very quiet for most of the European session. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 183 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it had giventhe money market a further 183 mln stg assistance in theafternoon session. This takes the Bank's total help so fartoday to 561 mln stg and compares with its estimate of ashortage of some 550 mln stg in the system which it earlierrevised up from 400 mln.    The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprising80 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, eight mln stg in band twoat 9-13/16 pct and 95 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct. REUTER
FED'S ANGELL SAYS BOARD IN HARMONY ON RATES Federal Reserve Board Governor WayneAngell said the Reagan appointed majority on the board was notat odds with Chairman Paul Volcker on whether interest ratesshould rise to support the dollar.    "I would anticipate very little difference between thechairman's position on price-level stability - and on the viewof the dollar in foreign exchange markets - and my own," Angellsaid in an interview with the New York Times.    "And I would also see very little difference in (Governor)Manley Johnson's position and my own," he added.    The newspaper said Angell was speaking in response toinquiries concerning a report by syndicated columnists RowlandEvans and Robert Novak that Volcker was ready to raise rates todefend the dollar but that he was being thwarted by the fourReagan appointed members on the board.    Angell told the newspaper that there was no evidence ofdisagreement on the board and that "anyone who should suggest"there is one "might be reaching pretty far." Reuter
FED EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES IN MONEY MARKET The Federal Reserve is expected toenter the U.S. government securities market to add temporaryreserves, economists said.    They said it is likely to supply the reserves indirectly byarranging two to 2.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchaseagreements. There is less chance of a direct reserve addinstead via System repurchase agreements.    Federal funds, which averaged 6.21 pct yesterday, opened at6-3/8 pct and traded between there and 6-7/16 pct. Reuter
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA TWO-DAY REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S.Government securities market to arrange two-day Systemrepurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.    Dealers said that Federal funds were trading at 6-7/16 pctwhen the Fed began its temporary and direct supply of reservesto the banking system. Reuter
CREATIVE MONETARY POLICY TO SPUR KUWAITI ECONOMY Kuwait, a major oil producer hit by lastyear's price slump, is leaning towards a more creative monetarypolicy to help spur its economy, banking sources said.    "There is a clear emphasis on encouraging the use of moneyin productive ventures, rather than having it all tied up ininterest bearing investments which have no direct productiveoutlet," one banker said.    Kuwait's Central Bank yesterday cut one key money marketrate and abandoned another which had been used since February1986 to direct inter-bank borrowing and lending costs.    The bank reduced to six pct from 6-1/2 pct the rate atwhich it will offer funds of one month to one year in theinter-bank market. This, in turn, affected retail rates.    The cut, the third this year, followed a major overhaul ofinterest rate policy last month which Central Bank GovernorSheikh Salem Abdul-Aziz al-Sabah said was designed to revivethe economy.    One banker said "There is growing flexibility, creativity,in interest rate policy, amid an awareness of the need todiversify the economy by stimulating the non-oil sector."    For the first time in nearly three years domestic interestrates are now significantly below those for the U.S. Dollar, afavourite haven for Gulf speculative and investor funds in thepast, banking sources said.    Despite uncertainties generated by the 6-1/2 year old Iran-Iraq war on Kuwait's northern doorstep, bankers play down theprospect of any significant capital flight.    The Kuwaiti dinar, whose value is set by the Central Bankand was fixed today at 0.27095/129 to the dollar, is strongernow than for several years.    Fears that the dollar may fall further will prompt secondthoughts among Kuwaiti investors prepared to consider switchingfunds into the U.S. Currency, the sources said.    "There is a distinct exchange rate risk," they added.    Bankers said the dollar slump hurt many investors behindthe last major capital outflow in 1984, encouraged then by 18pct U.S. Interest rates and the start of Iranian attacks onneutral shipping in the Gulf.    The Central Bank calculates its dinar exchange rate againsta basket of currencies. Bankers do not know the basket's exactmake-up but say it is weighted heavily in favour of the dollar.    Some bankers believe any strengthening of the dinar beyond0.27000 to the dollar might provoke investors into shiftingfunds into the U.S. Currency. "They may ask:When will the dollarbe so cheap again?" one said.    And with dinar interest rates now roughly one pct belowthose for the dollar, they say the Central Bank faces adelicate balancing role requiring further flexibility.    Bankers said the current, expansionary interest rate policyis only part of a broader attempt to encourage local investmentand strengthen the backbone of the economy.    They estimate the economy, measured in terms of GDP andallowing for inflation, shrank 19 pct in 1986 after an 8.1 pctcontraction the previous year.    Bankers also noted recent measures to stimulate stockmarket activity, capped today by sharp cuts in brokerage feesto make it cheaper for investors to trade. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN TOKYO MARKET The Bank of Japan intervened just afterthe Tokyo market opened to support the dollar from fallingbelow 140.00 yen, dealers said.    The central bank bought a moderate amount of dollars toprevent its decline amid bearish sentiment for the U.S.Currency, they said.    The dollar opened at a record Tokyo low of 140.00 yenagainst 140.70/80 in New York and 141.15 at the close hereyesterday. The previous Tokyo low was 140.55 yen set on April15. REUTER
Dollar trades at post-war low of 139.50 yen in Tokyo - Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa saidJapan has no plans to take new emergency measures to supportthe dollar, other than foreign exchange intervention.    He also told reporters that many major nations yesterdayintervened heavily to support the dollar against the yen.    Yesterday's intervention was large in terms of thecountries involved and the amounts expended, he said.    With the continued fall of the dollar against the yen,0speculation had arisen in currency markets here that Japanmight take new measures to support the U.S. Currency, such ascurbing capital outflows.    Miyazawa said that yesterday's news of a 4.3 pct rise inU.S. Gnp in the first quarter had been expected. Although thegrowth looks robust on the surface, the figures in reality arenot that good, he said.    He said the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) isexpected to come up with a final set of recommendations of waysto stimulate the Japanese economy before Prime MinisterYasuhiro Nakasone leaves for Washington next week.    Commenting on yesterday's report on economic restructuringby a high-level advisory panel to Nakasone, Miyazawa said itwas important to put the panel's recommendations into effect. REUTER
SWISS COMMITTED TO JOINT CURRENCY INTERVENTION The Swiss National Bank will continue totake part in concerted intervention on currency markets asnecessary, president Pierre Languetin told the bank's annualmeeting.    He said the dollar had on occasion hit highs or lows whichbore no relation to economic fundamentals and cooperationbetween all monetary authorities was necessary to prevent itbreaching thresholds that would damage everyone.    "We are resolved -- as we have done in the past -- to takepart in concerted intervention to the extent that this ispossible and desirable," Languetin said.    Languetin said Switzerland had noted with satisfaction thesix nation Paris accord on currency stabilisation measures inFebruary, adding that it had anchored the principle ofstrengthened international cooperation.    He said measures such as recent concerted intervention wereuseful in the short term.    But he added, "The (Paris) Louvre accord can produce nolasting effects without a correction of the fundamentalimbalances, without a reduction of the American budget deficitand without stronger growth in Europe and Japan."    Languetin said certain changes would probably be necessaryin the "too expansive" monetary policy of the United States,adding that there was a prevailing view that U.S. Money supplywas expanding too strongly.    "If this should last long the dollar could only bestabilised at the cost of a substantial easing in monetarypolicy on the part of the other central banks, which would inturn create the basis for a new wave of world-wide inflation,"he said. One positive factor was that monetary authorities inthe most important countries had not relinquished theiranti-inflation policies. REUTER
BANK OF SPAIN RAISES INTEREST RATES The Bank of Spain announced a one-pointrise in overnight call money rates to 16-5/8 pct, which acentral bank spokesman said was part of government efforts tocontrol money supply growth.    The increase came after yesterday's one-point rise andpushed interbank rates to 19 19-1/2 pct from 18-1/8 19 pct.    The M-4 money supply, liquid assets in public hands, thebroadest measure of money supply, rose 14.1 pct in the firstthree months compared with this year's eight pct target. Moneysupply growth was 11.4 pct last year. REUTER
BUNDESBANK BOUGHT DOLLARS FOR YEN IN OPEN MARKET The Bundesbank intervened in the openmarket to buy dollars for yen ahead of the Frankfurt fixing,dealers said.    They said the Bundesbank bought dollars for around 139.80yen in small amounts in the half-hour running up to the 1100GMT fix.    The Bundesbank did not intervene when the dollar was fixedin Frankfurt at 1.7969 marks.    Earlier the Bank of Japan bought dollars steadily in theFar East, but could not stop heavy selling which pushed thedollar to a post-war low of 139.05 yen at one point. REUTER
NO SWISS NATIONAL BANK INTERVENTION SEEN A Swiss National Bank spokesman said thebank had not intervened in currency markets today and dealerssaid they had seen no evidence of Bundesbank action outsideWest Germany.    Frankfurt dealers reported that the Bundesbank boughtdollars for yen in the open market there.    Zurich dealers said the absence of the Swiss National Banksuggested that no concerted intervention was under way.    Asked earlier today if the Swiss National Bank hadintervened, the spokesman said "not yet." REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN TOKYO MARKET The Bank of Japan intervened just afterthe Tokyo market opened to support the dollar from fallingbelow 140.00 yen, dealers said.    The central bank bought a moderate amount of dollars toprevent its decline amid bearish sentiment for the U.S.Currency, they said.    The dollar opened at a record Tokyo low of 140.00 yenagainst 140.70/80 in New York and 141.15 at the close hereyesterday. The previous Tokyo low was 140.55 yen set on April15. REUTER
JAPAN AGENCY URGES WATCH ON YEN RISE EFFECTS Japan should look out for possibleeffects of the yen's recent sharp rise on Japan's economy asgrowth remains slow, the government's Economic Planning Agencysaid in a monthly report submitted to cabinet ministers.    EPA officials told reporters the underlying trend of theeconomy is firm but growth is slow due to sluggish exports.    Customs-cleared exports by volume fell 4.9 pctmonth-on-month in February after a 2.8 pct fall in March.    The government must take adequate economic measures toexpand domestic demand and stabilise exchange rates in a bid toensure sustained econonic growth, the report said.    The report made a special reference to the yen's renewedrise and its effect on the economy, the officials said, addingthe agency's judgement of current economic conditions has notchanged since last month.    The EPA said last month Japan's economy is beginning toshow signs of bottoming out, conditional upon exchange rates.    The dollar fell below 139 yen in early trading today - apost-war low. REUTER
DEALERS SEE MODERATE DUTCH CENTRAL BANK YEN SALES The Dutch central bank has intervenedin the currency markets today, in apparent concerted actionwith other central banks, foreign exchange dealers said.    They detected selling of the yen for dollars, which someestimated would run to a moderate 200 mln guilders, comparableto token Dutch intervention reported last week.    Other dealers, however, said they believed today's moderateintervention had been in guilders against dollar.    The dealers agreed the intervention was minimal and more apolitical gesture than a market moving force. REUTER
JAPAN HAS NO PLANS FOR NEW MEASURES TO AID DLR Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa saidJapan has no plans to take new emergency measures to supportthe dollar, other than foreign exchange intervention.    He also told reporters that many major nations yesterdayintervened heavily to support the dollar against the yen.    Yesterday's intervention was large in terms of thecountries involved and the amounts expended, he said.    With the continued fall of the dollar against the yen,speculation had arisen in currency markets here that Japanmight take new measures to support the U.S. Currency, such ascurbing capital outflows.    Miyazawa said that yesterday's news of a 4.3 pct rise inU.S. Gnp in the first quarter had been expected. Although thegrowth looks robust on the surface, the figures in reality arenot that good, he said.    He said the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) isexpected to come up with a final set of recommendations of waysto stimulate the Japanese economy before Prime MinisterYasuhiro Nakasone leaves for Washington next week.    Commenting on yesterday's report on economic restructuringby a high-level advisory panel to Nakasone, Miyazawa said itwas important to put the panel's recommendations into effect. REUTER
DEALERS SEE MODERATE DUTCH CENTRAL BANK YEN SALES The Dutch central bank has intervenedin the currency markets today, in apparent concerted actionwith other central banks, foreign exchange dealers said.    They detected selling of the yen for dollars, which someestimated would run to a moderate 200 mln guilders, comparableto token Dutch intervention reported last week.    Other dealers, however, said they believed today's moderateintervention had been in guilders against dollar.    The dealers agreed the intervention was minimal and more apolitical gesture than a market moving force. REUTER
SWISS SAY THEY INTERVENED WITH BUNDESBANK AND FED The Swiss National Bank bought dollarsand sold yen in concerted action along with the Bundesbank andthe U.S. Federal Reserve Board, a bank spokesman told Reuters.    "We intervened in dollar-yen with the Bundesbank and theFed," he said. He declined to specify the extent of theintervention, which took place at around 1200 GMT, afterreports by Frankfurt dealers the Bundesbank was in the market.    The intervention failed to prevent the dollar dipping to1.4548 Swiss francs at around 1320 GMT, close to its all-timelow of 1.4510 francs set on September 26, 1978. It thensteadied to 1.4560/75 francs. REUTER
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 518 MLN STG HELP The Bank of England said it provided themoney market with further assistance worth 518 mln stg thisafternoon.    It bought 349 mln stg of band one bank bills at 9-7/8 pctand 169 mln stg of band two bank bills at 9-13/16 pct.    This brings its total assistance on the day to 543 mln stgcompared with a liquidity shortage it has estimated at around850 mln stg. REUTER
BAKER SAYS G-7 WANTS TO HALT DOLLAR FALL Treasury Secretary James Baker saidthe Group of Seven leading industrial nations is fullycommitted to halting a further decline in the dollar.    "Let me emphasize that all seven major industrial nationsremain fully committed to strengthening policy coordination,promoting growth and cooperating to foster stability ofexchange rates," he told the American Enterprise Institute.    "We all believe a further decline of the dollar could becounter productive to our efforts (to promote growth)," he said.    Baker also said that after meeting Japanese special envyShintaro Abe, "it's clear that Japan intends to take strongsteps to stimulate its economy to meet its committments underthe Louvre Accord."    Baker said in the past two years he has worked to promotegreater coordination of economic policies and importantprogress has been made.    "Substantial exchange rate adjustments have also beenaccomplished over the past two years so that today we arebetter positioned to promote growth and reduce externalimbalances," he said.    Baker pointed out that in February the seven agreed tofoster stable exchange rates and those commitments wererenewed recently.     In a speech largely devoted to discussing trade andcompetitiveness, Baker again warned of the dangers ofprotectionist trade legislation, saying it would harm the U.S.standard of living.    Baker stressed adminstration trade policy sought to removeforeign barriers to trade and via forthcoming GATT talks willfocus on agriculture, services and intellectual property.    The Treasury Secretary said that as well as trade issues hehad to focus on macroeconomic issues as well which encompassthe trade picture.    "The world economy today is really one constantly flowingcircle of capital and goods. Trade accounts catch and measurethat flow at only one spot on the circle," he said. Reuter
TREASURY'S BAKER - G-7 OPPOSE FURTHER DLR DROP Treasury Secretary James Baker saidthe Group of Seven countries, in seeking to foster stability inexchange markets, believe a further decline in the value of thedollar would be counterproductive.     In answer to questions by a business group, Baker saidthat for one thing further reductions could make iteconomically difficult for the surplus countries to grow,thereby making it difficult for them to purchase overseasgoods. In addition, Baker said he was opposed to the U.S.selling a yen denominated bond arguing that such a move mightsend the wrong signal to markets. Reuter
UGANDAN GOVERNMENT PROPOSES NEW TAXES The Ugandan government, in its fouryear investment and development plan, proposed taxing land andfood crops in an attempt to broaden its revenue base away fromdependence on coffee sales.    The government also said in the plan, made available toReuters, that a devaluation of the Ugandan shilling would dolittle to redress a chronic balance of payments deficit.    The plan, the first since President Yoweri Museveni tookpower 15 months ago, seeks to raise 2.4 billion dlrs ininvestment funds from abroad between 1987 and 1991.    It says the government had already secured 1.4 billion dlrsin pledges before Islamic lenders promised a further 494 mlndlrs at a conference in Kampala last week.    Uganda already had an external debt of 984 mln dlrs at theend of 1986 and in the nine months of the current budget debtservicing will cost 204 mln dlrs, almost 50 pct of exportearnings of 431 mln, the plan said.    The new fiscal measures include a proposed tax on largeland holdings, regardless of whether the owners are exploitingthem, and taxes on maize, beans and other crops sold by theProduce Marketing Board.    The plan says the aim is to spread the tax burden, which inUganda has traditionally fallen almost exclusively on coffeefarmers. Coffee provides over 90 pct of foreign exchangeearnings and more than 70 pct of government revenue.    On exchange rate policy, it repeats Museveni's argumentthat any form of fotation would not help allocating resources.    Western governments and multilateral funds say the Ugandanshilling is grossly overvalued and the government must changethe exchange rate if it wishes to encourage investment. Theshilling sells on the black market at more than 15,000 to thedollar, compared with an official rate of 1,400. REUTER
BANK OF FINLAND EASES REFERENCE RATE RESTRICTIONS The Bank of Finland said it wasreducing restrictions on the use of money market rates asreference rates for loans.    The Bank would start quoting money market rates referred toas HELIBOR (Helsinki Interbank Offered Rate). Banks mayhenceforth use these as reference rates in their lending, itsaid.    From May 1 the banks would be allowed, without specialcentral bank approval, to use as a reference rate not only itsbase rate but also other Bank of Finland rates or the officialmoney market rate used in market transactions.    A derivative of these could also be used, the statementsaid. But housing loans would be excepted and their lendingrate would, as formerly, be linked directly or indirectly tothe Bank of Finland's base rate.    The new guidelines involve mainly two changes. Money marketrates in future would be used as reference rates for loans witha maturity of over five years and the introduction of a newreference rate would no longer require central bank approval.    The decision was made as a continuation of the centralbank's process of liberalisation, it said. REUTER
UAE TO COORDINATE EXCHANGE RATES WITH GCC United Arab Emirates (UAE) CentralBank Governor Abdel Malik al-Hamar said any changes in the UAE"sexchange rate policy would be carried out in conjunction withother Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries.    In a speech opening a seminar on Arab exchange ratepolicies, he noted the UAE had not changed the value of thedirham against the U.S. Dollar since 1980 despite widefluctuations in the latter"s value against other currencies.    "The exchange rate policy of the dirham has realised itsgoals in the past and changes in this policy depend oncoordination and cooperation with other GCC countries," he said.    The GCC states -- the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar,Oman and Kuwait -- have agreed in principle to link theircurrencies to a common grid.    Their currencies are now linked either to the dollar, IMFspecial drawing right (SDR) or, in the case of Kuwait, atrade-weighted basket of international currencies.    The UAE dirham can fluctuate within a band of 7.25 pcthigher or lower than 4.7619 to the SDR but has been fixed at3.671 to the dollar since November 1980. REUTER
U.S. CENTRAL BANKER OPPOSES FURTHER DOLLAR FALL New York Federal Reserve BankPresident Gerald Corrigan opposed a further fall in the valueof the dollar but refused to say whether U.S. Interest rateswould be raised to protect the currency.    "A further decline in the dollar or appreciation of the yenat this juncture I would regard as counterproductive," he told anews conference.    His comments echoed those made last week by U.S. TreasurySecretary James Baker, who also warned against a further dollarfall. The U.S. Currency plunged to a post-war low below 140 yenlast week, despite dollar-buying by a number of central banks.    Currency speculators and investors are convinced that afurther dollar fall is needed to help reduce the huge U.S.Trade deficit, dealers said. The only thing likely to help thedollar is seen as a rise in U.S. Interest rates.    Corrigan refused to say whether the U.S. Was ready to riskdamaging its economic recovery by raising interest rates.    The dollar"s sharp drop this month has also raised questionsabout the usefulness of recent meetings of the Group of Seven.But Corrigan said: "They have played a constructive role in sofar as the broad objective of facilitating a higher degree ofeconomic policy coordination." REUTER
TRADE MINISTERS SAY GOVERNMENTS NEED CREDIBILITY Four trade ministers ended aweekend meeting with a frank confession that their governmentsare losing credibility in world financial markets and will notregain it until they back their promises over trade andcurrencies with action.    "Until today we have anounced policies, but when it came toaction required it was done in a way that satisfied nobody,"Japanese Trade Minister Hajime Tamura told a news conference.    "From now on, if a government comes up with a certainpolicy, it must be followed by action," he said following twodays of informal talks with the trade ministers of the UnitedStates, the European Community and Canada in central Japan.    Last week, the dollar fell to a new record low below 140yen, despite statements from the Group of Seven (G-7) leadingindustrial powers that currencies should be stabilised tounderpin world trade.    "We need credibility to gain confidence. When we haveconfidence, then we can have an impact," said Tamura.    His colleagues agreed that when major trade nations foughtover trade issues while calling for each other to honour freetrade rules in general, it was not a sight which inspiredconfidence in the markets.    "The time has come now to act in step with the talk. If youbelong to a club, you have to act in concord with the rules, ifyou want to be credible," said EC external trade chief Willy deClercq. Canadian Trade Minister Patricia Carney also agreed: "Weare meeting in a time of great trade tension. What the worldneeds to see is that we have the political will to deal withthese problems we face."    She said that next month"s meeting of the Organisation ofEconomic Cooperation and Development and the meeting of leadersof the G-7 nations in Venice in the summer would be a forum toshow this will existed.    U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter reminded the newsconference that the results of such high level meetings couldlead to action which would only have an effect on smoothing outworld trade imbalances perhaps years later.    "The media typically has a tendency to evaluate meetingslike this in terms of tangible results. That is not the way itshould be pursued," he said.    "What is achieved in an intangible way almost always exceedswhat is achieved in a tangible way," he said.    Progress in personal contacts and understanding each others"positions and policies was just as important toward reducingtrade tensions, he said.    Tamura read out an agreed summary of the joint talks:    Currency stability was now essential, but currencymovements alone would not correct a U.S. Trade deficit withJapan which hit 58 billion dlrs last year, an 18 billion dlr ECdeficit with Japan in 1986, and a Japanese global trade surplusof almost 90 billion, he said.    Trade retaliation, protectionism, and forcible exportrestraints which lead to a shrinkage in world trade flows weremost dangerous, he said.    The imbalances can only be solved by coordinated policiesover a whole range of fiscal, monetary, trade and industrialmeasures, and in line with a body of internationally agreedrules, he said.    In this regard, the policing role of the Geneva-basedGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade world trade body must bestrengthened, he said.    The ministers reconfirmed their individual promises tosolve the problem. The United States will try to reduce itslarge budget deficit and restore competitiveness within itsindustries.    Japan will introduce early and effective measures to expandits domestic growth and rely less on exports.    The EC must continue efforts for balanced growth andreduced unemployment. All felt satisfied at the new progress inthe Canadian economy. REUTER
SAUDI RIYAL DEPOSITS STEADY IN DULL MARKET Saudi riyal interbank deposits weremainly steady at yesterday"s higher levels in a market which sawlittle activity due to the European weekend, dealers said.    They said banks in the kingdom offered two and three monthdeposits 1/16 of a percentage point lower, but there were fewtakers.    Rates for short-dated and other fixed period funds werelittle changed following their sharp rise on Saturday broughton by higher eurodollar deposit rates.    Spot-next and one-week deposits were relatively unchangedat 6-3/4, 1/2 pct.    One-month deposits were steady at 6-3/4, 1/2 pct whilethree-month funds eased to 6-7/8, 5/8 pct from 6-15/16, 11/16.    Six-month deposits also declined marginally to 7-5/16,7-1/8 pct from quotes of 7-3/8, 1/8 at the close of trade onSaturday.    The spot riyal was steady at 3.7499/7504 to the dollar. REUTER
G-7 OFFICIALS TO DECIDE ON SUMMIT AGENDA Senior officials from the Group ofSeven (G-7) countries will meet next week to decide an agendafor the body"s June summit scheduled to be held in Venice,Japanese officials said.    The meeting will provide senior government officials withtheir first chance to discuss the recent sharp drop of thedollar, although the main focus of the gathering is longerterm, they said.    Deputy Finance Ministers, including Japanese Vice-FinanceMinister Toyoo Gyohten, will attend. The meeting will be heldin Italy, they said, but gave no other details.    The leaders of the G-7, the United States, Britain, Canada,France, Italy, Japan and West Germany, are expected to discussways of improving economic policy coordination in Venice.    The hope is that increased coordination will help reducethe huge imbalances in world trade and calm volatile currencymarkets. But economists say the strategy has so far not worked.    Japanese officials admitted there is little more they cando on their own to stem the dollar decline, which last week sawthe currency plunge to a post-war low below 140 yen.    The officials said they expected sentiment against thedollar to change soon, once the U.S. Trade deficit starts tofall and the Japanese surplus begins to shrink.    "We have already seen some signs of improvement (in thetrade picture), but the market does not appreciate it yet," onesaid.    Last week"s passage of the Japanese government budget byparliament"s Lower House also paves the way for Tokyo to takeadditional action to stimulate its sagging economy and boostimports, the officials said. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN TOKYO BUYING DOLLARS The Bank of Japan intervened buyingdollars shortly after the opening of 137.70 yen, dealers said.    Strong selling from life insurance companies and investmenttrusts pressured the dollar downward, but the U.S. Unitsteadied on profit-taking buying by petroleum companies andintervention by the central bank.    The dollar's upward potential looks limited as forwarddollar selling by exporters for commercial purposes is expectedabove 137.80, dealers said. REUTER
SUMITA SAYS FURTHER YEN RISE UNLIKELY - JIJI PRESS Japan's Jiji Press quoted Bank of JapanGovernor Satoshi Sumita as telling Japanese reporters thecentral bank will continue determined market intervention toprevent a further rise in the value of the yen.    Sumita, who is attending an annual meeting of the AsianDevelopment Bank, also said he does not think the yen willcontinue to rise, Jiji reported. He said the Bank of Japan iskeeping close contact with other major industrial nations onconcerted market intervention, Jiji said. He said coordinatedintervention is the only way to stop the dollar from droppingtoo fast, Jiji said. The dollar fell below 138 yen today. REUTER
BUNDESBANK INTERVENES IN TOKYO VIA BANK OF JAPAN The Bundesbank intervened in the Tokyoforeign exchange market to buy a small amount of dollarsagainst marks through the Bank of Japan, dealers said.    The West German central bank bought dollars when the dollarwas at about 1.7770-80 marks. Dealers' estimates of theintervention amount varied from 100 mln to one billion dlrs.    Some dealers said the Bank of Japan appeared to haveundertaken small-lot mark-selling intervention on its ownaccount. REUTER
MIYAZAWA SAYS POLICY COORDINATION KEY TO CURRENCY Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawatold a press conference the basic solution to currencyinstability among major nations is economic policycoordination.    He said that is a time-consuming process as coordinationdoes not always proceed in a way policy makers envisage. "Thatis democracy," he said. Upon that foundation, Miyazawa said,there must be coordinated intervention. Major nations havesufficient funds to continue concerted intervention, he added.    "Without doubt this set-up of coordinated intervention willcontinue to operate," Miyazawa said.    Miyazawa said Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone and U.S.President Ronald Reagan are likely to reaffirm the Louvre andWashington Group of Seven (G-7) agreements on currencystability when they meet later this week.    Asked whether the dollar is declining against all majorcurrencies, not only the yen, Miyazawa declined to make anycomments.    He reiterated that many major nations have undertakencoordinated intervention in recent weeks to prop up the dollar,including countries who are not members of the G-7. REUTER
USSR ATTENDS ADB MEET, UNCERTAIN ON MEMBERSHIP The Soviet Union is attending anAsian Development Bank (ADB) annual general meeting for thefirst time, but has not decided whether to apply formembership, a senior Soviet State Bank official said.    "No specific plans exist for applying for membership," YurijPonomarev, international managing director of the State Bank,told Reuters. "It's too early to draw up any plans."    The USSR is attending the 20th meeting as an observer.    "The sole purpose is to observe and collect informationfirst hand," Ponomarev said.    He said the Soviet Union was responding to a long-standingADB invitation to attend the meetings.    "This is one of the fastest growing regions in the world,"the State Bank official said. "It is in our interest to havegood contacts."    But those strengthened contacts will not be made at theexpense of the Soviet Union's other relationships, he said.    Delegates here said the USSR move was connected to recentefforts to develop closer ties with Asia. The policy wasannounced last year by Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev in aspeech at Vladivostok.    Moscow's decision to attend the meetings follows itsapplication last year for membership of the General Agreementon Tariffs and Trade (GATT).    Delegates said the USSR faces lacklustre growth and issearching for ways to boost its economy.    Although the ADB said political ideology is not a critierafor membership, several delegates said politics would play alarge role in any decision to allow Moscow to join.    Moscow's application would have to be approved bytwo-thirds of the board of governors representingthree-quarters of the total voting power of member countries.    The basic votes of the 47 members are all equal and totalone-fifth of all votes. The remainder are proportional to thenumber of shares held by each member.    Japan is the largest shareholder, at 15.1 pct, followed bythe U.S. With 14.9 pct and China with 7.2 pct.    The U.S. Has more than 12 pct of the total votes,insufficient to block a Moscow membership bid.    Japanese officials said Tokyo has not decided its positionregarding the possibility of Soviet membership and said theynoted the Soviets had not yet made any move to join. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN TOKYO The Bank of Japan intervened in themarket, buying a moderate amount of dollars around 137.80-85yen, dealers said.    Some dealers noted talk that the Bundesbank intervened heredirectly buying dollars against marks, after reports that itintervened through the Bank of Japan in the morning.    The dollar moved up on short-covering aided by the centralbank intervention, they said. REUTER
BALDRIGE SAYS FURTHER DOLLAR FALL NOT PRODUCTIVE The U.S. Secretary of CommerceMalcolm Baldrige said a further decline of the dollar would notbe productive.    He told reporters here that Treasury Secretary James Baker"feels, and I feel the same way, that a further dollar fallwould be counterproductive."    Baldrige also said governments cannot determine long-termcurrency exchange rates and that currencies would eventuallyreflect underlying economic fundamentals.    The U.S. Commerce Secretary is in Hong Kong after stops inPeking and Seoul on an Asian trade tour. REUTER
MIYAZAWA DOES NOT THINK DOLLAR IN FREEFALL Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawatold a parliamentary Upper House budget committee that he doesnot think the dollar is in a freefall.    He said concerted intervention is only a supplementarymeasure to moderate volatility in exchange rates and repeatedthat policy coordination among major industrial nations isnecessary. "We cannot expect currency stability only throughcoordinated market intervention," he said.    Miyazawa also told the committee the U.S. Has not called onJapan to cut its 2.5 pct discount rate.    Miyazawa said the government is not considering investingin U.S. Government bonds to help stabilize exchange rates. Thismatter has to be dealt with carefully because it involves thepublic's money and exchange rates are moving widely, he added.    The ministry will consider where to invest its funds whenexchange rates become stable, he said.    Asked if Japan is considering a request to the U.S. For itto raise its discount rate to stabilize exchange rates,Miyazawa said the U.S. Has not been able to take action nowbecause it has to maintain its economic growth. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN DEPUTY SAYS NO NEW MEASURES PLANNED The Bank of Japan's deputy governorYasushi Mieno told a parliamentary Upper House budget committeethat the central bank has no monetary measures other thanintervention planned to stabilize currency rates.    He also said the Bank of Japan is not considering a cut inits 2.5 pct discount rate.    Mieno said the central bank is determined to restorecurrency stability through intervention by the major industrialnations as recent exchange rate volatility stems fromspeculation. Economic fundamentals have not changed, he added. REUTER
EMS INTERVENTION SAID SOMETIMES COUNTERPRODUCTIVE Attempts to hold currency ratesrigidly within tight ranges through European Monetary Systemintramarginal intervention can be counterproductive, bringingfunds into the stronger currency from the weaker at rates stillconsidered fairly favourable, the Bundesbank said.    "The movements thus sparked can actually promote the weakertendency of a currency, requiring still larger obligatoryintervention when rates hit band limits," it said in its 1986annual report. The other danger was that money supply expansioncould be caused in the stronger currency nation without itscentral bank being involved in the activity.    "For this reason, currency levels should be allowed as muchroom for manoeuvre as possible inside the band limits when acurrency is in a phase of weakness," the Bundesbank said.    "In addition, speculative positions are made more expensiveto hold when interest differentials are increased."    In the report, the Bundesbank gave a rare glimpse of theextent of intramarginal and obligatory EMS intervention thathas taken place since the foundation of the eight-currencysystem on March 13, 1979.    Obligatory intervention is that required by EMS centralbanks when a currency reaches its agreed limit against anotherparticipating unit.    Intramarginal intervention is undertaken on agreementbetween central banks when speculative pressure moves acurrency in an unwanted direction, although it may not yet benear any allowed EMS limits.    At the start of this year, central banks were very activelyselling marks and supporting weaker currencies, primarily theFrench franc, as speculative EMS pressure grew.    But the announcement by the Bank of France that it wasceasing intramarginal intervention sent the franc straight toits then-permitted floor of 31.8850 marks per 100.    Data in the Bundesbank report showed the EMS central banksbought a net total 29.9 billion marks after the April 6, 1986realignment until the selling petered out on July 7.    But this was far outweighed by net purchases between July8, 1986, and the realignment on January 12 this year totalling63.0 billion marks - 44.1 billion of which was intramarginaland 18.9 billion was obligatory intervention.    The data showed that 17.4 billion marks of the totaleventually filtered into the West German monetary system.    Since the latest realignment, central banks have bought16.1 billion marks in intramarginal intervention, theBundesbank said, without naming the banks involved.    Only very high activity after the March 21, 1983realignment came close to matching moves up to last January.Then, central banks bought a massive 61.6 billion marks in theperiod up to July 1985, mainly to stabilise the EMS as thedollar surged.    This then turned into mark sales of a net 34.0 billion fromJuly 11, 1985 in the run-up to the April 1986 realignment. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 600 BILLION YEN IN BILLS The Bank of Japan will sell 600 billionyen in 60-day financing bills tomorrow through 36-dayrepurchase agreements maturing June 3 to roll over a previouslyissued 400 billion yen of such bills maturing tomorrow, moneytraders said.    The yield on the bills for sale to banks and securitieshouses by money houses will be 3.8498 pct compared with theone-month commercial bill discount rate today of 3.8125 pct andthe one-month certificate of deposit rate of 4.18/07 pct.    The traders estimate the surplus tomorrow at about 700billion yen. The remaining 300 billion yen is mainly due toincreased cash holdings by the banking system because ofcentral bank dollar purchases.    The operation will put the outstanding supply of such billsto 3,500 billion yen. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN TOKYO The Bank of Japan intervened in themarket, buying a moderate amount of dollars around 137.80-85yen, dealers said.    Some dealers noted talk that the Bundesbank intervened heredirectly buying dollars against marks, after reports that itintervened through the Bank of Japan in the morning.    The dollar moved up on short-covering aided by the centralbank intervention, they said. REUTER
MIYAZAWA DOES NOT THINK DOLLAR IN FREEFALL Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawatold a parliamentary Upper House budget committee that he doesnot think the dollar is in a freefall.    He said concerted intervention is only a supplementarymeasure to moderate volatility in exchange rates and repeatedthat policy coordination among major industrial nations isnecessary. "We cannot expect currency stability only throughcoordinated market intervention," he said.    Miyazawa also told the committee the U.S. Has not called onJapan to cut its 2.5 pct discount rate.    Miyazawa said the government is not considering investingin U.S. Government bonds to help stabilize exchange rates. Thismatter has to be dealt with carefully because it involves thepublic's money and exchange rates are moving widely, he added.    The ministry will consider where to invest its funds whenexchange rates become stable, he said.    Asked if Japan is considering a request to the U.S. For itto raise its discount rate to stabilize exchange rates,Miyazawa said the U.S. Has not been able to take action nowbecause it has to maintain its economic growth. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN DEPUTY SAYS NO NEW MEASURES PLANNED The Bank of Japan's deputy governorYasushi Mieno told a parliamentary Upper House budget committeethat the central bank has no monetary measures other thanintervention planned to stabilize currency rates.    He also said the Bank of Japan is not considering a cut inits 2.5 pct discount rate.    Mieno said the central bank is determined to restorecurrency stability through intervention by the major industrialnations as recent exchange rate volatility stems fromspeculation. Economic fundamentals have not changed, he added. REUTER
FED'S CORRIGAN OPPOSES FURTHER DOLLAR FALL New York Federal Reserve BankPresident Gerald Corrigan opposed a further fall in the valueof the dollar but refused to say whether U.S. interest rateswould be raised to protect the currency.    "A further decline in the dollar or appreciation of the yenat this juncture I would regard as counterproductive," he told anews conference.    His comments echoed those made last week by U.S. TreasurySecretary James Baker, who also warned against a further dollarfall.    Currency speculators and investors are convinced that afurther dollar fall is needed to help reduce the huge U.S.trade deficit, dealers said, adding the only thing likely tohelp the dollar is seen as a rise in U.S. Interest rates.    Corrigan refused to say whether the U.S. was ready to riskdamaging its economic recovery by raising interest rates.    The dollar's sharp drop this month has also raisedquestions about the usefulness of recent meetings of the Groupof Seven. But Corrigan said: "They have played a constructiverole in so far as the broad objective of facilitating a higherdegree of economic policy coordination." Reuter
MIYAZAWA SAYS POLICY COORDINATION KEY TO CURRENCY Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawatold a press conference the basic solution to currencyinstability among major nations is economic policycoordination.    He said that is a time-consuming process as coordinationdoes not always proceed in a way policy makers envisage. "Thatis democracy," he said. Upon that foundation, Miyazawa said,there must be coordinated intervention. Major nations havesufficient funds to continue concerted intervention, he added.    "Without doubt this set-up of coordinated intervention willcontinue to operate," Miyazawa said.    Miyazawa said Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone and U.S.President Ronald Reagan are likely to reaffirm the Louvre andWashington Group of Seven (G-7) agreements on currencystability when they meet later this week.    Asked whether the dollar is declining against all majorcurrencies, not only the yen, Miyazawa declined to make anycomments.    He reiterated that many major nations have undertakencoordinated intervention in recent weeks to prop up the dollar,including countries who are not members of the G-7. Reuter
G-7 OFFICIALS TO DECIDE ON SUMMIT AGENDA Senior officials from the Group ofSeven (G-7) countries will meet next week to decide an agendafor the body's June summit scheduled to be held in Venice,Japanese officials said.    The meeting will provide senior government officials withtheir first chance to discuss the recent sharp drop of thedollar, although the main focus of the gathering is longerterm, they said.    Deputy Finance Ministers, including Japanese Vice-FinanceMinister Toyoo Gyohten, will attend. The meeting will be heldin Italy, they said, but gave no other details.    The leaders of the G-7, the United States, Britain, Canada,France, Italy, Japan and West Germany, are expected to discussways of improving economic policy coordination in Venice.    The hope is that increased coordination will help reducethe huge imbalances in world trade and calm volatile currencymarkets. But economists say the strategy has so far not worked.    Japanese officials admitted there is little more they cando on their own to stem the dollar decline, which last week sawthe currency plunge to a post-war low below 140 yen.    The officials said they expected sentiment against thedollar to change soon, once the U.S. Trade deficit starts tofall and the Japanese surplus begins to shrink.    "We have already seen some signs of improvement (in thetrade picture), but the market does not appreciate it yet," onesaid.    Last week's passage of the Japanese government budget byparliament's Lower House also paves the way for Tokyo to takeadditional action to stimulate its sagging economy and boostimports, the officials said. Reuter
BANK OF ENGLAND DOES NOT INTERVENE IN MONEY MARKET The Bank of England said it did notintervene in the money market during the morning.    It also said that it had raised its estimate of theliquidity shortage in the market to 450 mln stg from 400 mln. REUTER
BALLADUR URGES ADHERENCE TO G-7 CURRENCY ACCORDS French Finance Minister Edouard Balladursaid the Group of Seven major industrial nations, G-7, canachieve stable currency values by adhering to accords reachedthis year in Paris and Washington.    Balladur, asked at a news conference if coordinated marketintervention by central banks was sufficient to halt thedollar's recent slide, said "each country has to fulfillcommitments" outlined in the G-7 accords.    Earlier this month in Washington, finance ministers of theU.S., Japan, West Germany, France, Italy, Britain and Canadareaffirmed an earlier Paris accord to arrest the dollar's fall.    Balladur said the current nervousness in foreign exchangemarkets can be partly attributed to "some operators in themarket only watching short term economic indicators. You haveto keep a cool head," he said, declining to elaborate further.    In an earlier speech before the Milan Chamber of Commerce,the minister said European countries have to seek "a betterconsensus of economic and monetary policies."    On the European Monetary System, he said, "The persistentvulnerability of the foreign currency mechanism, particularlyto the movements of the dollar, can be explained by the absenceof a common policy for currencies of other countries."    Balladur said, "I am profoundly convinced that the Europeancountries have to define together this position with respect tothe dollar and the yen."    He said Italy eventually would have to abandon its highermargin of fluctuation within the European Montetary System. "Ihope that the spectacular improvement of the economic situationand of the balance of payments will permit (Italy) to do itsoon."    The lira is currently allowed a fluctuation margin eitherside of its agreed midpoints with other EMS currencies of sixpct, against 2.25 pct permitted for the other members.  REUTER
U.S. TREASURY'S BAKER CANCELS TRIP TO AUSTRALIA Treasury Secretary James Baker hascancelled a trip to Australia because of pressing business athome, including the visit this week by Japanese Prime MinisterYasuhiro Nakasone, a Treasury spokesman said.    The spokesman, who asked not to be identified, said: "Iwould not draw any conclusion from the cancellation...I wouldjust say it's the press of business."    But he added that the visit by the Japanese leader was "partof the press of business."    The spokesman denied the cancellation was linked to thecurrent turmoil in the financial markets.       Nakasone's visit is expected to be crucial for the currencymarkets. Unless the Japanese prime minister brings with himmeasures to stimulate the Japanese economy by fiscal expansionor lower interest rates, the visit is likely to be consideredby currency markets as an outright failure.    In addition, it is thought highly unlikely that Nakasoneand Reagan will agree on the removal of U.S. trade sanctionsimposed earlier this month on certain electronic goods.    But the participation in the talks by Baker, theadministration's top policy maker on international economicaffairs, suggests that hard bargaining between the two sidesmay be in prospect.       Asked if the trip by Baker, who was to have left April 30and returned May 6, had been dropped in the last couple ofdays, the Treasury spokesman replied: "I would think so."    He described the trip as "purely ceremonial."    Both Japan and the United States have a lot to lose from anunsuccessful outcome to the this week's talks.    Tokyo and Washington are aware that nervous currency markets stand ready to bail out of dollars and buy yen, whicheconomists fear could send world interest rates soaring andeven lead to global recession.    Baker has been the driving force behind theadministration's efforts to coordinate international economicpolicies and reduce global trade imbalances.    Reuter
BALLADUR URGES ADHERENCE TO G-7 CURRENCY ACCORDS French Finance Minister Edouard Balladursaid the Group of Seven major industrial nations, G-7, canachieve stable currency values by adhering to accords reachedthis year in Paris and Washington.    Balladur, asked at a news conference if coordinated marketintervention by central banks was sufficient to halt thedollar's recent slide, said "each country has to fulfillcommitments" outlined in the G-7 accords.    Earlier this month in Washington, finance ministers of theU.S., Japan, West Germany, France, Italy, Britain and Canadareaffirmed an earlier Paris accord to arrest the dollar's fall.    Balladur said the current nervousness in foreign exchangemarkets can be partly attributed to "some operators in themarket only watching short term economic indicators. You haveto keep a cool head," he said, declining to elaborate further.    In an earlier speech before the Milan Chamber of Commerce,the minister said European countries have to seek "a betterconsensus of economic and monetary policies."    On the European Monetary System, he said, "The persistentvulnerability of the foreign currency mechanism, particularlyto the movements of the dollar, can be explained by the absenceof a common policy for currencies of other countries."    Balladur said, "I am profoundly convinced that the Europeancountries have to define together this position with respect tothe dollar and the yen."    He said Italy eventually would have to abandon its highermargin of fluctuation within the European Montetary System. "Ihope that the spectacular improvement of the economic situationand of the balance of payments will permit (Italy) to do itsoon."    The lira is currently allowed a fluctuation margin eitherside of its agreed midpoints with other EMS currencies of sixpct, against 2.25 pct permitted for the other members.  REUTER
EMS INTERVENTION SAID SOMETIMES COUNTERPRODUCTIVE Attempts to hold currency ratesrigidly within tight ranges through European Monetary Systemintramarginal intervention can be counterproductive, bringingfunds into the stronger currency from the weaker at rates stillconsidered fairly favourable, the Bundesbank said.    "The movements thus sparked can actually promote the weakertendency of a currency, requiring still larger obligatoryintervention when rates hit band limits," it said in its 1986annual report. The other danger was that money supply expansioncould be caused in the stronger currency nation without itscentral bank being involved in the activity.    "For this reason, currency levels should be allowed as muchroom for manoeuvre as possible inside the band limits when acurrency is in a phase of weakness," the Bundesbank said.    "In addition, speculative positions are made more expensiveto hold when interest differentials are increased."    In the report, the Bundesbank gave a rare glimpse of theextent of intramarginal and obligatory EMS intervention thathas taken place since the foundation of the eight-currencysystem on March 13, 1979.    Obligatory intervention is that required by EMS centralbanks when a currency reaches its agreed limit against anotherparticipating unit.    Intramarginal intervention is undertaken on agreementbetween central banks when speculative pressure moves acurrency in an unwanted direction, although it may not yet benear any allowed EMS limits.    At the start of this year, central banks were very activelyselling marks and supporting weaker currencies, primarily theFrench franc, as speculative EMS pressure grew.    But the announcement by the Bank of France that it wasceasing intramarginal intervention sent the franc straight toits then-permitted floor of 31.8850 marks per 100.    Data in the Bundesbank report showed the EMS central banksbought a net total 29.9 billion marks after the April 6, 1986realignment until the selling petered out on July 7.    But this was far outweighed by net purchases between July8, 1986, and the realignment on January 12 this year totalling63.0 billion marks - 44.1 billion of which was intramarginaland 18.9 billion was obligatory intervention.    The data showed that 17.4 billion marks of the totaleventually filtered into the West German monetary system.    Since the latest realignment, central banks have bought16.1 billion marks in intramarginal intervention, theBundesbank said, without naming the banks involved.    Only very high activity after the March 21, 1983realignment came close to matching moves up to last January.Then, central banks bought a massive 61.6 billion marks in theperiod up to July 1985, mainly to stabilise the EMS as thedollar surged.    This then turned into mark sales of a net 34.0 billion fromJuly 11, 1985 in the run-up to the April 1986 realignment. REUTER
TRADE MINISTERS SAY GOVERNMENTS NEED CREDIBILITY Four trade ministers ended aweekend meeting with a frank confession that their governmentsare losing credibility in world financial markets and will notregain it until they back their promises over trade andcurrencies with action.    "Until today we have anounced policies, but when it came toaction required it was done in a way that satisfied nobody,"Japanese Trade Minister Hajime Tamura told a news conference.    "From now on, if a government comes up with a certainpolicy, it must be followed by action," he said following twodays of informal talks with the trade ministers of the UnitedStates, the European Community and Canada in central Japan.    Last week, the dollar fell to a new record low below 140yen, despite statements from the Group of Seven (G-7) leadingindustrial powers that currencies should be stabilised tounderpin world trade.    "We need credibility to gain confidence. When we haveconfidence, then we can have an impact," said Tamura.    His colleagues agreed that when major trade nations foughtover trade issues while calling for each other to honour freetrade rules in general, it was not a sight which inspiredconfidence in the markets.    "The time has come now to act in step with the talk. If youbelong to a club, you have to act in concord with the rules, ifyou want to be credible," said EC external trade chief Willy deClercq.    Pat Carney of Canada said "We are meeting in a time of greattrade tension. What the world needs to see is that we have thepolitical will to deal with these problems we face."    She said that next month's meeting of the Organisation ofEconomic Cooperation and Development and the meeting of leadersof the G-7 nations in Venice in the summer would be a forum toshow this will existed.    U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter reminded the newsconference that the results of such high level meetings couldlead to action which would only have an effect on smoothing outworld trade imbalances perhaps years later.    "The media typically has a tendency to evaluate meetingslike this in terms of tangible results. That is not the way itshould be pursued," he said.    "What is achieved in an intangible way almost always exceedswhat is achieved in a tangible way," he said.    Progress in personal contacts and understanding eachothers' positions and policies was just as important towardreducing trade tensions, he said.    Tamura read out an agreed summary of the joint talks:    Currency stability was now essential, but currencymovements alone would not correct a U.S. trade deficit withJapan which hit 58 billion dlrs last year, an 18 billion dlr ECdeficit with Japan in 1986, and a Japanese global trade surplusof almost 90 billion, he said.    Trade retaliation, protectionism, and forcible exportrestraints which lead to a shrinkage in world trade flows weremost dangerous, he said.    The imbalances can only be solved by coordinated policiesover a whole range of fiscal, monetary, trade and industrialmeasures, and in line with a body of internationally agreedrules, he said.    In this regard, the policing role of the Geneva-basedGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade world trade body must bestrengthened, he said.    The ministers reconfirmed their individual promises tosolve the problem. The United States will try to reduce itslarge budget deficit and restore competitiveness within itsindustries.    Japan will introduce early and effective measures to expandits domestic growth and rely less on exports.    The EC must continue efforts for balanced growth andreduced unemployment. All felt satisfied at the new progress inthe Canadian economy. Reuter
DUTCH CENTRAL BANK INTERVENES TO SUPPORT DOLLAR The Dutch Central Bank intervenedmodestly to support the dollar with spot market transactions,dealers said.    They said the bank bought dollars against guilders as theU.S. Currency dipped to a low of 2.0013 guilders from 2.0130-40on opening, the lowest since the end of January.    There was no intervention at the fix, however, which putthe dollar at 2.0045 guilders after 2.0280 last Friday, anddealers said the Bank's buying was limited.    "I'd be surprised if the Bank had bought as much as 100 mlndlrs," one dealer said. Reuter
STOLTENBERG REAFFIRMS COMMITMENT TO LOUVRE ACCORD Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenbergreaffirmed his commitment to the Louvre accord struck in Pariswhere leading industrialised countries agreed to stabilise thedollar around then current levels.    He told a congress of West German tax advisers in Hamburgthe policy agreed in Paris has so far been successful in themark/dollar relationship.    "We want to continue it (the policy)," Stoltenberg said.According to a text of his remarks released in Bonn, he alsosaid trade tensions in specific branches had to be overcome andhe warned against any return to protectionism. REUTER
WHITE HOUSE DECLINES COMMENT ON DOLLAR'S SLIDE White House spokesman MarlinFitzwater declined to comment on the continuing slide of thedollar against the Japanese yen, but said Treasury SecretaryJames Baker was watching developments.    "Jim Baker is monitoring that at the Treasury Department,but at this point we don't have any comment to make on thedollar," Fitzwater told reporters.    He was asked at a briefing whether the White House wasconcerned about the continuing decline in the dollar's value. Reuter
BANKER SEES CURRENCY FALLING TO BALANCE TRADE A leading regional banker saidthat it was axiomatic that despite market intervention, acountry's currency will eventually fall to an exchange ratewhich balances its international trade and payments accounts.    John Medlin, president and chief executive officer for theFirst Wachovia Corp, said that "substantial and rapid currencydevaluations usually are followed in time by surging priceinflation, spiralling interest rates and painful economicausterity."    Speaking to a banking trade group, he also said the peak ofdebt writeoff has not yet been reached.    Medlin told the Bankers Association for Foreign Trade thatultimately "our nation's budget and trade deficits will bebalanced either through voluntary restraints in spending andconsumption or through forced austerity imposed by adispassionate and unmerciful international market place."    He said the continuing weakness of the dollar and therecent increase in inflation and interest rates "provide earlywarning that the classic laws of international economics stillare in effect."    He also told the association that trying to reduce thetrade deficit by erecting protectionist barriers to importswould not give lasting relief.    "However, the imposition and enforcement of fair traderules could help improve imbalances with nations which practiceprotectionism and deception on us."    Medlin noted that the U.S. economy was likely to continue"at best being a sluggish mixture of depressed segments andgrowth areas."    But he said that the business cycle was still alive andthat the next downturn "could be deeper and harder to reversethan the last one." Reuter
PRESSURE GROWS FOR U.S. ACTION TO AID DOLLAR Pressure is growing in the financialmarkets for the U.S. to take overt action to stabilize thedollar even though doubts linger that it has fallen far enoughto help redress world trade imbalances, economists and dealerssaid.    Some experts believe that a half-point increase in the U.S.discount rate, preferably in conjunction with rate cuts inTokyo and Bonn, would be enough to discourage sellers.    But many fear that more drastic action, such as a U.S.issue of yen-denominated Treasury bonds, may be needed.    Despite official warnings about the dangers of a furtherdollar decline and concerted central bank intervention, thedollar extended its recent sharp depreciation, touching a40-year low of 137.25 yen in Tokyo earlier today after closinghere on Friday at 139.30/40.    The impact on other financial markets was devastating.    In Tokyo, the stock market suffered its largest single daydecline; in London, gold bullion prices rose to four-year highsand in the U.S., long Treasury bond yields surged above 8.80pct and the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell more than 40points in hectic early trading.    "The problem now is linkage. This is not just a currencyproblem. It is affecting all the markets," said one seniortrader at a major U.S. bank.    Up until September of last year, international efforts toredress world trade imbalances appeared to working like adream; the dollar was falling in an orderly manner, worldinterest rates were tumbling and inflation was kept in check.    In recent months, however, this strategy has begun to showsigns of severe stress, with the U.S. imposition of punitivetariffs on Japan threatening to unravel this spirit ofcooperating and condemn the world to a damaging trade war.    "The markets fear that we have built up a momentum that isreally difficult to stop. A U.S. rate hike has become aninevitability," one currency dealer said.    "At this point, nothing short of a Fed discount rateincrease, ideally combined with further discount rate cuts byJapan and Germany, would seem capable of stabilizing thedollar," said David Jones of Aubrey G. Lanston and Co Inc.    Allen Sinai of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc predicted a 1/4to 1/2 point U.S. rate increase before May 19 and a rise inU.S. bank prime lending rates to eight pct from 7-3/4 pct inthe near future.    But many economists feared that any moderate U.S. rateincreases, which appear unlikely to be matched by rate cutsoverseas, would be too little, too late.    "They should have done this 10 days ago. It would have donethe trick then," said one currency analyst.    "If they do it now, it would be seen as a defensive measurenot an offensive one. It would show policy weakness notstrength," added one trader.    In addition, economists fear that a discount rate risemight place additional strain on a sluggish U.S. economy andtempt embattled debtor nations to retaliate.    A U.S. discount rate increase would also fuel theprotectionist fires in Washington, where the House is expectedto pass a protectionist trade bill, whatever compromisesPresident Reagan and Prime Minister Nakasone can come up withduring their summit later in the week.    "Politically, they can't really do it this week," said onecurrency analyst, pointing out that if it failed to stabilizethe dollar, it would only weaken the U.S. negotiating stance.    Even if the U.S. retains the upper hand, economists andtraders do not hold out high hopes for any major newinitiatives from this week's talks.    At best, the experts see some sort of accord whereby Japanwill agree to stimulate growth and open its domestic markets tooutsiders while the U.S. promises to lift its tariffs andsupport the Group of Seven dollar stabilization agreement.    But many fear that this may not be enough to assuage themarket's speculative selling fervor, which has now raised fearsof weak overseas interest at next week's quarterly U.S.Treasury refunding program.    Japanese and European investors have traditionally playedan active role in these auctions, which are expected to total28 to 29 billion dlrs.    Consequently, thoughts are turning to the possibility thatPresident Reagan may try to remove foreign investors' worriesabout currency risk by financing part of the U.S. budgetdeficit in yen or mark bonds, rather than dollars.    While similar action by former President Carter helped tostabilize the dollar in 1978, the White House is clearlyreluctant to take such a step, economists said.    This hesitance was amply shown last Friday when U.S.Treasury Secretary James Baker said, "there might well be somewho would view (yen-denominated bonds) as a lack of confidenceby the U.S. in its own currency."    Baker added, "therefore we don't think it's an appropriatething to do."    A foreign exchange analyst at a major Japanese bank hereshared Baker's doubts. "Dollar defending measures are veryunlikely. They will confirm the dollar's weak undertone andlead to further speculative dollar selling," he said.    Thus, it may be less destabilizing for the authorities tostop trying to fight the market's bearish sentiment.    In a recent lengthy report, economists at Morgan GuarantyTrust Co concluded, "the dollar should be left free to trade atwhatever level market forces produce." Reuter
FED EXPECTED TO SET MULTI-DAY REPURCHASE PACTS The Federal Reserve is expected todirectly supply temporary reserves by arranging three orfour-day System repurchase agreements, economists said.    They said there is less chance that it will add reservesindirectly instead. If the Fed fails to supply reserves,however, economists said this will be a strong indication thatit is firming policy, perhaps in preparation for a near termdiscount rate increase from 5-1/2 pct.    Federal funds, which averaged 6.29 pct on Friday, opened at6-7/16 pct and remained there in early trading. Reuter
U.S. MAY HAVE TO ACT TO SUPPORT DOLLAR The prospect of renewed assaults onthe dollar might force the United States eventually to unveildistasteful measures to bolster support for its currency,monetary analysts and economists said.    Treasury Secretary James Baker has acknowledged that theReagan administration discussed the possibility of issuingyen-denominated U.S. government bonds to support the dollar.    But he has also dismissed speculation that he was ready totake such an unusual step. Nonetheless, monetary sources saythe issue has been seriously discussed by the administration.    "It is unlikely that we would undertake to do that now,"Baker said last week. "In our view there might well be some whowould view (issuing U.S. yen bonds) as, in fact, a lack ofconfidence by the U.S. in its own currency. And therefore wedon't think it's an appropriate thing to do."    But if the Reagan administration did announce measures,they could be a part of an internationally-coordinated effortto end the instability in financial markets with genuine actionto reduce massive economic imbalances, monetary analystsbelieve.    And, like a currency defense package unveiled by the Carteradministration, issuing yen bonds could be accompanied by arise in the discount rate, now 5.5 pct.    The Federal Reserve has resisted pressure to raise this keyrate so far, chiefly, some Fed officials say, because it couldhurt economic growth. Another concern is the fragileinternational debt situation.    Analysts who expect a currency support package are dividedover its possible timing. Some even believe an announcementcould come this week during a visit to Washington by JapanesePrime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone.    "It would give some real focus to the visit, and it mightsteady the dollar and prevent it from going down," said CharlesTaylor, an analyst with Prudential-Bache Securities.    But monetary sources said they thought it unlikely that theReagan administration would resort to measures which wouldbring to mind the troubles of President Carter.    Until very recently, the current administration has urged alower dollar to help redress its huge trade deficit whileCarter faced a weak dollar as confidence in his economicpolicies collapsed. But today, Washington's policies areincreasingly in question.    The Carter plan was unleashed on Nov. 1, 1978. And it was aresounding success. "This package really gave credibility to theadministration to get the dollar up," said Robert Hormats,vice-president of Goldman Sachs Inc and a former senior U.S.economic in the Carter and Reagan Administrations.    The dollar then stood at just under 1.87 marks and around188 yen. Today it stands around 1.79 marks and 139 yen.    "The problem is now that the administration in rhetoric isevidencing concern about the dollar but in practice is reallydoing very little," Hormats said of statements to support thedollar by U.S. officials.    Several currency traders and foreign central bank officialsthink these statements still fall short of unequivocally sayingthe dollar has declined far enough.    Carter issued 6.4 billion dlrs of mark and swiss francbonds aimed essentially at buttressing pyschological supportfor the dollar but also at attracting foreign investors, whohad lost confidence in the dollar, to U.S. government notes.    The package was supported by a one pct rise in the discountrate, to 9.5 pct, drawings on U.S. monetary reserves at theInternational Monetary Fund and sales of U.S.-held SDRS toother IMF members.     It was also supported by increased Fed currency swap lineswith other central banks and stepped up official U.S. goldsales.    Stephen Axilrod, a former Fed official who is nowvice-chairman of Nikko Securities, said, "I think it's veryunlikely they would do that now."    He argued that it was politically difficult to take actionto support the dollar while Japan and West Germany have stillto fulfill pledges to stimulate their economies.    But most analysts believe a currency support package wouldonly work if genuine economic measures to redress world tradeimbalances are undertaken by the leading industrial powers.    It could coincide with the June Venice summit of leaders ofthe seven major industrial democracies -- the United States,Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada.    Hormats said he believed the currency has to declineslightly further for a package to have impact. He said theseven nations' Paris Accord to stabilize currencies was forgedtoo soon to fundamentally change market sentiment.    "I think we're nearing a point when they would feel(politically) comfortable doing this," Hormats said.    Many analysts think the administration's reluctance to actfirmly on the dollar has been due to its desire to keep up thepressure on its allies to bolster their economies and for fearof fanning protectionist sentiment in Congress.    But Hormats said "there will be a point at which thegovernment of the United States shows it does give a damn forthe dollar." Reuter
NERVOUS CONSOLIDATION SEEN IN CURRENCY FUTURES Currency futures at the InternationalMonetary Market (IMM) are likely to consolidate near currentlevels in nervous trading conditions over the next few days,although underlying sentiment remains positive, currencyanalysts said.    "Currencies are likely to muddle around these levels," saidShearson Lehman Brothers analyst Anne Parker Mills.    Traders are unwilling to establish either long or shortpositions in futures because of uncertainty over upcoming tradetalks and U.S. trade legislation, they said.    Japanese prime minister Yasuhiro Nakasone and PresidentReagan will meet Thursday and Friday to discuss trade tensionsbetween their two countries, while at the same time theDemocratic-led U.S. House of Representatives will be voting ona controversial trade bill.    "Unless something really surprising comes out of theNakasone/Reagan talks, I don't see the dollar getting above 142(yen) and 1.83 (marks)," Mills said.    The equivalent in futures of those interbank levels areabout 0.007050 to 0.007025 in the June yen contract and about0.5500 in June marks, she said.    June yen closed at 0.007191 on Tuesday while June marksfinished the day at 0.5602.    Mills said, however, that "the chances of them (Reagan andNakasone) coming up with something new are limited." Onepossibility might be a Japanese discount rate cut, but "theyprobably won't do that unless we raise our discount rate."    Recent firmness in the federal funds rate and the FederalReserve's slowness in adding reserves to the banking system hasheightened sentiment that the money-policy making body hasalready tightened credit and a discount rate hike is possible,analysts said.    Recent weakness in currencies and strength in the dollarhas been more the result of nervous shortcovering ahead of themeeting rather than reaction to the White House statementMonday supporting a stable dollar, said Harris bank currencyanalyst Earl Johnson.    Traders "are worried about the outcome of the talks betweenReagan and Nakasone," and as the talks are late in the week,the market may not get a chance to react to any developmentsuntil Monday, Johnson said.    Until then, Johnson expects the dollar to remain in a broadrange between 1.77 and 1.85 marks and 137 to 140.50 yen.    Chicago Corp analyst John Bilson, however, expects a rallyin the European currencies over the near-term, while the yen,at this point is overbought.    "The Japanese are moving away from the U.S. market," andinvestment funds formerly directed to the U.S. are likely toflow into Europe, Bilson said.    The chief beneficiary of such a flow of funds will besterling, Bilson said.    "Sterling rates are about four pct above Japanese rates,despite the half point rate cut," Bilson said. Major U.K. bankslowered their base lending rates today to 9.5 pct.    In addition to a favorable interest rate spread whichshould attract funds, Bilson said the firm oil market and thestrong political situation of Prime Minister Thatcher also makeBritish investments attractive.    Passage of the trade bill, which includes an amendment byMissouri Democrat Richard Gephardt that would force a 10 pctannual cut in imports from countries with an excessive tradesurplus with the U.S. if they fail to remove unfair tradebarriers to the U.S. after six months of negatiations, wouldlikely pressure the yen, Bilson said.    Bilson, however, said the legislation is unlikely to pass,but that Nakasone is likely to bring a promise to open Japanesemarkets to U.S. goods and back it up with government contractswith U.S. manufacturers. Reuter
HONG KONG DEFENDS CURRENCY LINK WITH U.S. DOLLAR Hong Kong has not taken unfairadvantage of its currency's link with the U.S. Dollar, HongKong monetary affairs secretary David Nendick told the annualmeeting of the Asian Development Bank here.    He said: "We have taken the rough with the smooth, having toaccept a downward adjustment of our economy in 1985 following aperiod when the U.S. Dollar was clearly overvalued in worldterms, but benefiting as that currency subsequently declined."He said that since the establishment of the link in 1983, HongKong's trade had been broadly in balance. This year a modestdeficit was expected.    "Under the link, Hong Kong's entirely free and open economycontinues to adjust quickly to any external imbalances, but theburden of adjustment now falls almost entirely on our domesticinterest rates, money supply and price levels," Nendick said.    "The relative volatility in these domestic variables is theprice we pay for the stability of our currency against the U.S.Dollar," he said. REUTER
TAIWAN CENTRAL BANK DEFENDS DOLLAR RESERVES POLICY Central Bank governor Chang Chi-chengdefended Taiwan's policy of holding a large amount of itsforeign exchange reserves in U.S. Dollars, citing similarpolicies followed by countries such as West Germany and Japan.    The reserves, now a record 56 billion U.S. Dlrs, are theworld's largest after those of West Germany and Japan. About 90pct is held in U.S. Dollars and the rest in yen and marks.    Chang's remarks to parliament were in response to a call onMonday by about 20 members of the parliament who asked thegovernment to diversify into other currencies, including yen,marks and Swiss francs because of exchange rate losses.    The legislators said the bank lost about 3.8 billion U.S.Dlrs between September 1985 and September 1986 as the Taiwandollar rose to 36.77 to the U.S. Dollar from 40.45.    They said they expected the losses to continue because ofthe rising Taiwan dollar against the U.S. Currency.    Chang said the central bank could not sell the U.S. Dollarslike other private banks or enterprises because such tradingwould be speculative and risky.    "The U.S. Dollar is an international currency and is widelyused among trading nations," he added.    Chang said the Central Bank has further revised foreignexchange rules, which would relax most controls or even suspendthem.    The revised rules have been submitted to the cabinet forapproval, he said. He declined to give details. REUTER
SWISS PREPARED TO INCREASE CURRENCY INTERVENTION The Swiss National Bank isprepared to increase its intervention on currency markets ifthe action can be properly coordinated with other centralbanks, Markus Lusser, a member of the Bank's three mandirectorate, said.    He told a meeting of Swiss industrialists that interventionto support the dollar could not bring about lasting changes inexchange rates unless accompanied by fundamental changes ineconomic policy.    However, intervention could send signals that wouldcontribute to a short term smoothing of currency movements.    The National Bank was prepared to intensify cooperationwith other central banks, especially where convincingcoordination and significant timing are guaranteed, Lussersaid.    He said currency developments could not simply be talkedinto existence but needed to be matched by actions in the fieldof economic policy.    "Put simply, that means that in order to stabilise thedollar in a lasting way, a reduction of the budget deficit anda slowdown in money supply growth in the United States areunavoidable," he said.    The National Bank has intervened in dollar-yen repeatedlyin the last few weeks and earlier this week it said it hadintervened in dollar-Swiss franc for the first time since lastOctober.    Lusser said the key to increased exchange rate stabilitylay not in currency intervention by central banks but only inan improvement in international economic policy coordination.    This meant that industrial countries must avoid abruptswitches in economic policy and give priority to pricestability.    Lusser said the National Bank continued to take the viewthat easing its strict monetary policies would be incompatiblewith its primary goal of combatting inflation. The bank targetis for growth of two pct in central bank money supply in 1987.    He noted that in 1978, when the Swiss franc rose sharplyagainst all currencies, the bank was forced to abandon itsmoney supply targets in favour of an exchange rate target, withthe result that inflation surged.    "Current exchange rate developments have not, until today atany rate, made any such measures by the National Banknecessary," he said. REUTER
LOWER MARK RATE SPECULATION NOT SHARED IN GERMANY Speculation abroad that theBundesbank will steer money market rates lower, opening thefor interest rate cuts around Europe, is not shared by manyeconomists and money market dealers within Germany.    Speculation has developed that the Bundesbank wouldengineer lower rates to take pressure off the dollar/mark.    A strong rise in U.S. Market rates this month, promptingspeculation the Fed would raise its 5-1/2 pct discount rate,has raised the question whether Germany and Japan would alsobroaden interest rate differentials to support the dollar.    The U.S.-Japanese trade dispute is the key to the interestrate outlook, money market dealers in Paris said.    Talks this week between Japanese Prime Minister YasuhiroNakasone and President Reagan, if successful, could takepressure off the dollar, dealers and economists said.    Short term interest rates would be likely to ease if thetrade dispute is solved and the dollar steadies, they said.    But if no solution is found, the Paris dealers said, arenewed dollar fall would put strains on the mark/French francrate and force the Bank of France to raise short-term rates.    The three-month U.S. Treasury bill rate rose to six pctthis week from 5.6 pct at the start of April, and the yield onthe 30-year benchmark treasury bonds rose this week in Tokyo toa 14-month high of 8.86 pct from 7.66 pct in late March.    The dollar stabilized today just below 1.80 marks and above140 yen, underpinned by higher U.S. Rates and the Fed discountrate speculation.    But most dealers expect it to weaken further, which wouldput pressure on the Bundesbank to ease interest rates.    Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said yesterdaythe U.S. Had requested Japan to cut short-term interest rates.    The Bank of Japan was making efforts to do this, he said,adding the U.S. Had not asked for a cut in Japan's 2.5 pctdiscount rate, a move which Bank of Japan Governor SatoshiSumita said was not under consideration.    A call for a German move came yesterday from Dutch centralbank president Wim Duisenberg, who said the Dutch central bankfavoured a cut in West German interest rates and would followsuit if it happened.    Citibank AG said in its April report that another expectedphase of dollar weakness would prompt the Bundesbank to cut keymoney market rates in the next three to six months.    The Bundesbank has set a fixed rate of 3.80 pct onrepurchase pacts since February, with call money trading around3.70 pct for much of April.    Phillips and Drew senior European economist Richard Reidsaid the Bundesbank would allow interest rates to ease further,either with a lower fixed rate tender, or a tender by interestrate, allowing the market to set the rate.    "I'm fairly confident we'll see lower rates," he said.    Reid said taking 30 basis points off the repurchase ratewould have little impact on the German economy or fundamentalexchange rates, but could change market currency perceptions.    "A cut in German rates wouldn't be bad for the dollar, but Ithink its effect would be limited in duration unless it wasaccompanied by other measures elsewhere," he said.    Money market dealers here noted the speculation abroad thatthe Bundesbank would push down repurchase rates, but said theBundesbank had little reason to cut rates further at themoment, despite the liquid market seen for most of this month.    The dealers said the Bundesbank was likely to move to aninterest rate tender for its repurchase pacts next month. Thatshould not be seen as a sign of easing monetary policy however,they said.    The Bundesbank would merely be experimenting with interestrate tenders, following the introduction of a new system tospeed up the tender process at the start of April, they said.    Reinhard Pohl, head of the monetary policy section at theDIW economic research institute in West Berlin, said theBundesbank would probably not cut rates on repurchase pacts.    "I don't think that if they cut the repurchase rate a littleit would stop a wave of (currency) speculation," he said. But asharp and sudden deterioration in the dollar could force theBundesbank to take some action, he said.    Pohl said the Bundesbank was concerned that a cut ininterest rates would accelerate excessive monetary growth.    Some Bundesbank officials have argued recently that themonetary overshoot was due to strong currency inflows ratherthan credit growth, and therefore a more appropriate responseto excessive money supply growth would be to cut rates, to makethe mark and mark investments less attractive.    Pohl said the Bundesbank was hoping that domestic investorswould switch funds parked in liquid short-term accounts, whichhave swollen central bank money stock, into securities, whichwould take them out of the Bundesbank's key monetary measure.    A cut in interest rates at this stage however would leadinvestors to assume that rates had bottomed out and the nextmove would be upwards. They would therefore hold off buyingbonds, leaving central bank money stock swollen.    There are so far no signs that German investors areswitching funds into long term securities as the Bundesbankhopes they will, Berliner Handels- und Frankfurter Bankeconomist Hermann Remsperger said.    But Phillips and Drew's Reid said prospects of lower ratesand a strong currency would attract foreign investors intoGerman bonds, which would in turn attract domestic investors.    Werner Rein, chief economist at Union Bank of Switzerlandin Zurich, said he thought it likely that interest rates wouldcontinue to drift lower in many European countries.    "The scope for lower rates is probably greatest in Britainbut more limited in West Germany, where we could see someconsolidation," he said. Switzerland could be forced to matchany cut in German rates to prevent the franc rising furtheragainst the mark, he said.    Currency dealers in London said another half-point cut inU.K. Bank base rates was likely in the next few weeks as thepound had shrugged off yesterday's cuts and was still rising. REUTER
SWISS PREPARED TO INCREASE CURRENCY INTERVENTION The Swiss National Bank isprepared to increase its intervention on currency markets ifthe action can be properly coordinated with other centralbanks, Markus Lusser, a member of the Bank's three mandirectorate, said.    He told a meeting of Swiss industrialists that interventionto support the dollar could not bring about lasting changes inexchange rates unless accompanied by fundamental changes ineconomic policy.    However, intervention could send signals that wouldcontribute to a short term smoothing of currency movements.    The National Bank was prepared to intensify cooperationwith other central banks, especially where convincingcoordination and significant timing are guaranteed, Lussersaid.    He said currency developments could not simply be talkedinto existence but needed to be matched by actions in the fieldof economic policy.    "Put simply, that means that in order to stabilise thedollar in a lasting way, a reduction of the budget deficit anda slowdown in money supply growth in the United States areunavoidable," he said.    The National Bank has intervened in dollar-yen repeatedlyin the last few weeks and earlier this week it said it hadintervened in dollar-Swiss franc for the first time since lastOctober.    Lusser said the key to increased exchange rate stabilitylay not in currency intervention by central banks but only inan improvement in international economic policy coordination.    This meant that industrial countries must avoid abruptswitches in economic policy and give priority to pricestability.    Lusser said the National Bank continued to take the viewthat easing its strict monetary policies would be incompatiblewith its primary goal of combatting inflation. The bank targetis for growth of two pct in central bank money supply in 1987.    He noted that in 1978, when the Swiss franc rose sharplyagainst all currencies, the bank was forced to abandon itsmoney supply targets in favour of an exchange rate target, withthe result that inflation surged.    "Current exchange rate developments have not, until today atany rate, made any such measures by the National Banknecessary," he said. REUTER
EGYPT FUEL PRICE INCREASES PART OF REFORM PACKAGE Egypt has embarked on reforms sought bythe International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank byraising the price of diesel oil and other types of transportfuels.    The energy price increases were the first visible measurestaken in return for IMF standby credits and World Bank loans.    Effective today, fuel oil prices were trebled and prices ofgas oil, diesel and kerosene went up by over 50 pct, anEgyptian General Petroleum Corp (EGPC) official said. He saidfuel oil will sell for 28 Egyptian pounds a ton, instead of 7.5pounds.    Kerosene and gas oil were raised by 66 pct to sell for fivepiasters a litre, while diesel rose 50 pct to 4.5 piasters.    The government is expected also to act soon, possibly asearly as next weekend, to simplify the country's complexexchange rate system, bankers said.    Moving towards a more realistic exchange rate for the poundwas part of a package of reforms sought by the IMF and creditorgovernments. In return, Egypt stands to receive up to onebillion dlrs in IMF standby credits phased over three years tohelp it repay its 38.6 billion dlr foreign debt and guaranteerescheduling by western governments, the main creditors.    Energy price increases were also a condition of progress onWorld Bank project loans of up to 800 mln dlrs in energy,communications and other sectors which have been undernegotiation for several months, western diplomats said.    The U.S. And Western Europe have pledged political backingfor President Hosni Mubarak's government, committed to amulti-party political system and peace with Israel andstrategically poised in control of the Suez Canal.    Fuel price rises, postponed at least once and likely tolead to higher retail prices of basic goods, were a test of thegovernment's resolve to pursue economic reform, diplomats said.    But the new prices are still below world market levels.    There was no announcement of increases in more politicallysensitive products such as gasoline or natural gas, used forcooking, and the mass-circulation Al-Akhbar newspaper said theywould stay the same.    Official comment was not available on speculation amongbankers and diplomats that the Central Bank would soon tinkerwith the pound's exchange rates to try to channel more dollarsinto the banking system away from the illegal but toleratedfree market.    The Central Bank was expected to set up a committee inwhich 10 commercial banks, including the four state-ownedbanks, would decide the pound's value every day.    The official "incentive rate," currently set by the CentralBank daily, is around 1.36 pounds to the dollar, against 2.15on the free market.    Bankers predicted that the banks' committee might set ratesaround 1.80 or 1.90. But some doubted this would serve the aimof curbing the free market. REUTER
REAGAN WARNS ON FURTHER DOLLAR FALL President Reagan said a furtherdecline in the value of the dollar could be counterproductive.    In written answers to questions put by Japan's AsahiShimbun newspaper, he noted Treasury Secretary James Baker hadsaid all seven major industrial nations were committed tocooperating in fostering stability of exchange rates.    "We all believe a further decline of the dollar could becounterproductive," Reagan said.    Reagan said the best way for the United States to reduceits trade deficit was to export more.    He said Japan could make a major contribution to reducingexternal imbalances and sustaining world economic growth byadopting policies to promote stronger domestic demand in theshort-run and, in the long-run, implementing structural reformsto ease Japanese dependence on exports as a source of growth. Reuter
SENIOR ECONOMIST PREDICTS 30 PCT FALL IN DOLLAR a senior economist predicted theu.s. dollar would decline another 30 pct by year-end, but saidhe foresees no significant change in u.s. interest rates.    "the market recognizes another 30 pct dollar depreciation isnecessary," said rudiger dornbush of the massachusetts instituteof technology.    he said the only thing preventing the dollar from droppingfar below current levels was intervention by central banks indefinace of market forces.    he said artifical support of the dollar had put the world'sfinancial markets in an "excessively volatile" position, however,and predicted that within about four months "it is going to bevery difficult to keep the dollar in place."    the forecasts, dornbush added, are for "a steadydeterioration from now on."    dornbush, a university of chicago-educated economist, workswith the national bureau of economic research as well as mit.he spoke here at the invitation of panama's national bankingassociation, sponsor of a three-day international bankingconvention that got under way yesterday.    dornbush discarded fears of soaring u.s. interest ratesbecause of the declining dollar.    "the u.s. cannot raise interest rates. if it raises interestrates all the debts will bounce in the foreign sector ... andall over latin america," he said. Reuter
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 25 MLN STG LATE ASSISTANCE The Bank of England said it provided themoney market with late assistance of around 25 mln stg.    This takes the Bank's total help today to some 137 mln stgand compares with its latest forecast of a 150 mln stgshortage. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve is expected to addreserves to the U.S. banking system by arranging a round ofcustomer repurchase agreements during this morning'sintervention period, several economists said.    Some others, however, judged that the Fed has almostcompleted its reserve-adding requirement for the statementperiod ending on Wednesday and will not need to operate today.    Fed funds were trading at 6-11/16 pct, compared withFriday's average of 6.63 pct. Reuter
DUTCH OFFICIAL RATE CUT SEEN STILL LIKELY A cut of about half a percentage pointin Dutch official interest rates is still in prospect, althougheconomists said the timing would depend on Bundesbank moves.    Speculation has been rife that the Dutch Central Bank,encouraged by a strong guilder/mark relationship and widepremiums for Dutch money and capital market rates over German,might lower rates without the Bundesbank moving first.    Last month, the Central Bank lowered its special advancesrate to 5.1 pct from 5.25 pct after the Bundesbank dropped itsrepurchase tender rate to 3.55 pct from 3.8 pct.    That rate has remained in force, just holding above thefive pct official secured loans rate which governs commercialbank borrowings.    Given a strong guilder, a further fall in the West Germanrepo rate would trigger a lower special advances tariff,forcing an official Dutch rate cut, analysts said.    In February, when the Bundesbank cut its discount rate tothree pct from 3.5 pct, the Central Bank only lowered moneymarket rates and removed a surcharge over the secured loansrate on lending under its three month credit quota.    Since then, however, both the Central Bank and FinanceMinistry have made it clear they favour lower official rates.    In April, Central Bank President Wim Duisenberg said hewould follow any Bundesbank cut, and last week the FinanceMinistry expressed satisfaction when it raised 2.25 billionguilders with a six pct coupon state loan priced at 100.10 pctfor an effective yield of 5.98 pct, the lowest since 1965.    Technically, analysts said, there has to be a differencebetween the secured loans rate which applies to lending underthe credit quota, and the tariff on special advances which addextra liquidity to the money market.    Bank economists and dealers said a West German move tofurther lower the rate on securities repurchase pacts wouldresult in the Central Bank easing the special advance rate,provided the guilder/mark relationship permitted.    The Central Bank aims to keep the guilder stable around itsparity value within the European Monetary System of 112.673guilders per 100 marks.    Today, foreign exchange buying pushed the mark up 10guilder cents to 112.705 guilders per 100 at the fix, a levelthat would not permit a change in the interest ratedifferential between West Germany and the Netherlands, dealerssaid.    An economist at ABN Bank said he expected West German andDutch interest rates to ease in the short term. However, hesaid new wage agreements in West Germany had raised inflationexpectations which would put upward pressure on interest ratesin the longer term.    In the Netherlands, the inflation outlook for 1987 is nil,or even negative, while the latest official economic forecastspoint to a falling rate of economic growth.    "It will depend on the outcome of collective wage agreementnegotiations here whether there could be cost push inflation,"the ABN economist said.    He said Dutch money supply growth, which ran at 3.4 pct inJanuary, could also contribute to some inflation.    At Amro Bank, a leading analyst said inflation could run totwo pct next year. The bank expects Dutch capital market rates,currently averaging around 6.1 pct, to stop easing in thesecond half of this year and stabilize around 5.6 pct.    Analysts said an official rate cut could trigger a buyingspree on the bond market which would bring yields down,probably only temporarily, while money rates could fall belowfive pct.    Currently, all periods are traded at 5.12 to 5.25 pct inthe money market. REUTER
REAGAN URGES FULFILLMENT OF EXCHANGE ACCORDS President Reagan, preparing to departfor the Venice economic summit on Wednesday, said the UnitedStates and its allies must fulfill agreements on exchange ratestability.    "Economic policy decisions made last year in Tokyo, and atthis year's meetings of Group of 7 Finance ministers in Parisand in Washington, cannot be ignored or forgotten," he said.    "The commitments made at these meetings need to betranslated into action," Reagan said in a pre-summit speechcelebrating the 40th anniversary of the Marshall Plan. Reuter
U.S. TRADE DATA SEEN AS KEY TO DOLLAR TREND The dollar's recent signs of stabilityhave raised hopes that its 27-month decline may be nearly over,but most currency analysts refuse to commit themselves untilafter the June 12 release of U.S. trade data for April.    "The trade data will be a deciding factor to see if thedollar has bottomed out," said Jim McGroarty of Discount Corp.    Since February 1985, the dollar has nearly halved its valueagainst the yen and the mark as part of an officiallyorchestrated campaign to make U.S. goods more competitive onworld markets and redress gaping world trade imbalances.    On April 27, the dollar fell to a 40-year low of 137.25 yenbut has enjoyed a modest recovery over the last few weeks,topping 145 yen today for the first time in nearly two months.    Many economists now believe that the dollar has fallen farenough to ease the trade deficit's drag on the U.S. economy.    The U.S. trade gap narrowed to 13.6 billion dlrs in Marchfrom 15.1 billion in February and is expected to show continuedimprovement in April in volume, if not in real, terms.    Keiichi Udagawa of Bank of Tokyo in New York said that iffurther progress is reported, the dollar would head back uptowards 150 yen.    "There is growing consensus that the dollar has bottomedout for the medium term," added Tom Campbell of First NationalBank of Chicago.    Other factors supporting this bullish view were growingexpectations that Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker wouldbe reappointed for a third four-year term in August, Japan'slarger-than-expected economic stimulus package last week and more favorably technical chart signals, analysts said.    The dollar was also aided by Japan's moves to dampenspeculative selling in Tokyo and by reports of active centralbank intervention to support the dollar.    The Federal Reserve Bank of New York said last week thatthe U.S. monetary authorities bought more than four billiondlrs during the February-April period -- the largest amountsince the dollar crisis of the late 1970's.    Discount Corp's McGroarty described the Fed's interventionvolume as "impressive".    James O'Neill of Marine Midland Bank was not so positive,however: "the dollar has not yet bottomed out. After the tradedata are released, the dollar could fall towards 1.77 marks and140 yen."    Similarly, Natsuo Okada of Sumitomo Bank in New Yorkwarned, "I don't think the dollar has bottomed out yet."    Although the dollar could rise as high as 146.50 yen, Okadasaid market impatience about the painstakingly slow decline ofthe U.S. trade deficit may lead to renewed pressure.    Currency analysts also warned about an unfavorable reactionto the seven-nation economic Summit on June 8 to 10 in Venice,which is likely to focus on the implementation of previouscommitments rather than yield any fresh initiatives.    President Reagan said today, "economic policy decisionsmade last year in Tokyo and at this year's meetings of Group ofSeven finance ministers in Paris and Washington cannot beignored or forgotten."    "The commitments made at these meetings need to betranslated into action," he added in a speech, celebrating the40th anniversary of the Marshall aid plan for Europe.    Now that Tokyo has unveiled its fiscal stimulus package,analysts expected Bonn and the dollar/mark rate to bear thebrunt of U.S. calls for further action.    Marine Midland's O'Neill said, "pressure will build up onGermany to take stimulative action like Japan."    Some Japanese bank dealers warned that although the dollarcould hold above 145 yen for some months it could also comeunder attack again if it seems the latest economic package isnot having much impact on Japan's economy and its tradesurplus. Reflecting a longer-term uncertainty, some some trustbanks and Japanese insurers are keeping their short dollarpositons hedged against exchange losses in their foreignportfolios, while some others have started covering those shortpositions, Japanese bank dealers said. Reuter
VENEZUELA TIGHTENS FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Venezuela's central bank has orderedVenezuelan banks and exchange houses to cease foreign exchangeoperations with brokers based outside the country, according toa copy of a central bank telex made available to Reuters.    The measure, confirmed by a brokerage firm here, haseffectively cut off all foreign participation in Venezuela'svolatile currency market.    The telex, issued on May 19, was signed by Carlos HernandezDelfino, manager of the bank's department of internationaloperations.    The telex said the restriction on business with foreignbrokers is in line with an earlier measure prohibiting foreignexchange houses from selling dollars or other foreigncurrencies to anyone living outside Venezuela.    In recent weeks the Venezuelan government has deniedrumours that it intends to impose foreign exchange controls toprop up the weakening bolivar.    But brokers said the central bank's move is seen as a defacto currency control. "It is definitely a control in the sensethat there's no longer complete freedom to operate," one brokerhere said.    "Gradually they're imposing restrictions and the directionis towards complete control," the broker said.    The broker, who requested anonymity, said virtually all hisVenezuelan customers had stopped doing business with him sincethe central bank issued the telex and followed it up withtelephone calls.    He said that before the restriction was imposed the volumeof his firm's transactions with Venezuela was about 10 mln dlrsa day. "It was a frenetic market, it was really quite active," hesaid.    The broker said he saw no logical explanation for theprohibition because his firm only acted act as an intermediarybetween Venezuelan brokers, exchange houses and banks.    "We weren't buying dollars from Venezuelans, that'sridiculous," he said. "They've been on a rampage againstforeigners."    The broker noted that two months ago Venezuela's centralbank quietly announced that banks doing foreign exchangebusiness outside Venezuela would have to respect a new 200 pctreserve requirement.    In February, the central bank also prohibited trading inbolivar futures, the broker said.    "We used to have a forward market," he said. "For a smallcurrency it was miraculous."    He said the bolivar, which averaged 20.29 to the U.S.Dollar in 1986, would continue to slip from its current rangeof 28.35 to 28.50 because the central bank was rapidly runningout of foreign reserves to support the currency on the freemarket. REUTER
POEHL LOOKS SET FOR EIGHT MORE YEARS AT BUNDESBANK For currency dealers Karl Otto Poehl isthe scourge of speculators, for bankers he is the man who hasplayed a key role in shaping the world's financial destiny forthe last seven years, and for Germans he is the guardian of themark.    President of the powerful and independent West Germancentral bank, the Bundesbank, Poehl is likely to have hiscontract renewed for another eight years when it expires at theend of this year, government officials say.    (Index of economic spotlights, see page ECRA)    But no official announcement has yet been made, raisingeyebrows in West Germany's business community.    The ebullient Poehl spent seven years in Bonn in topministerial posts under the Social Democrats, now inopposition, before he moved to the Bundesbank.    There has been speculation that Chancellor Helmut Kohlwould try to replace Poehl with a man closer to his ownChristian Democrats. But officials noted that Poehl has workedclosely and successfully with Finance Minister GerhardStoltenberg since Kohl's government took office in 1982.    Poehl, the most senior central banker apart from PaulVolcker of the United States, enjoys a strong internationalreputation which it would take a newcomer years to build up.    Given these circumstances, Kohl will probably overlookPoehl's past as an adviser to former Social Democrat ChancellorWilly Brandt, and top aide to Helmut Schmidt when he wasFinance Minister, bankers said. It was Schmidt who, asChancellor, appointed Poehl to his present job in 1980.    In recent months, with the mark's strong rise against thedollar, Poehl has made exchange rates the central concern ofthe Bundesbank's council, a highly conservative institutionwhich has doggedly pursued monetary policies to preventinflation catching hold. Older Germans can remember two boutsof galloping inflation this century.    But with consumer prices falling for much of 1986, andinflation negligible so far this year, Poehl thinks it is safeto relax the monetary reins a little and concentrate on thedangers to the German economy of a bloated exchange rate.    "I am of the opinion that efforts to stabilise thedollar/mark rate have reached a high priority, also for theBundesbank, because a further massive revaluation of the markwould endanger the economy in West Germany," he told businessjournalists in Frankfurt recently.    Ute Geipel, head of research at Citibank AG, says thatPoehl's reappointment would guarantee flexible monetary policy.    "Poehl's policy has always been a policy which does notfocus so rigidly on domestic factors, but also on the externaleconomy," she said.    An economist at a German bank, who declined to beidentified, said "If Poehl is confirmed in his post, it willcertainly be a plus for the pragmatic course which is not sorigidly oriented towards money supply."    One of Poehl's great struggles recently has been topersuade the United States to stop "talking down" the dollar. ForPoehl, the significance of the February Louvre Accord was thatthe United States agreed to join efforts to stabilisecurrencies.    The Louvre Accord was greeted with scepticism by currencydealers who said they would soon put it to the test. But infact the dollar has been relatively stable since the pact.    "This is because the markets know - or perhaps because theydon't know - what the central banks can do," Poehl says ofintervention in currency markets which can quickly turn ratesround, making a speculator's position worthless.    Poehl was born in 1929 and worked as a financial journalistin the 1960s before starting his ministerial career.    A relaxed sun-tanned figure who enjoys cracking jokes overa glass of beer, he is hardly a stereotype central banker.    He is also a keen sportsman who likes to watch football andplay golf.    Poehl says currency market intervention cannot substitutefor correct economic policies if exchange rates are imbalanced.    "But you can achieve an enormous effect with a small amountif you strike at the right moment," he said. Bundesbank dealersare very professional and skilled. "They've burnt the fingers ofmany people," he said. And unlike the speculators, Poehl notes,the Bundesbank dealers usually make a profit. REUTER
TAIWAN CURBS INFLOWS OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE Taiwan's central bank announced that asfrom today the overseas foreign exchange borrowings of localand foreign banks would be frozen at the level they reached atthe end of May.    The central bank's statement added that the measure wouldbe effective until the end of July.    Bankers said the measure is designed to curb the inflow offoreign exchange and slow the growth of money supply. Theyadded that the move, which sparked a record single day plungeof the local stock market, would limit their ability to lendforeign exchange to importers and exporters.    Foreign exchange borrowings by local and foreign banksreached almost 12 billion U.S. Dlrs by the end of April,according to official statistics.    Last week the central bank said that from today it wouldreduce its purchase of forward U.S. Dollars from banks to 40pct from 90 pct of the value of the contract. It said the movewas needed because of "distortions" in the foreign exchangemarket.    Exporters, nervous about the appreciating Taiwan dollar,have been heavily selling forward U.S. Dollars on the interbankmarket to avoid exchange rate losses.    Official figures show that forward U.S. Dollar sales in Mayreached a record of almost six billion U.S. Dlrs against 5.9billion in April.    All Taiwan's foreign exchange earnings must be convertedinto local dollars, boosting money supply at a time of boomingexports. Money supply rose a seasonally adjusted 51.86 pct inthe year to end-April, raising fears of higher inflation.    In March the central bank clamped tight restrictions onremittances of foreign exchange by companies and individuals toTaiwan in a move to curb inflows of speculative money.    Economists and bankers estimate that the rising value ofthe local dollar has attracted about ten billion U.S. Dlrs ofspeculative money into Taiwan since early last year. It hasflowed in mainly from Hong Kong, Japan and the U.S..    Since September 1985 the Taiwan dollar has risen by about22 pct against the U.S. Dollar.    Bankers said the government's efforts to stabilise theforeign exchange market were a prelude to lifting all curbs oncapital outflows. The central bank has said the controls willbe dropped by the end of July or early August.    Foreign exchange dealers said today's announcement causedjitters in the market with foreign and local banks making heavypurchases of U.S. Dollars. They said the central bank soldabout 30 mln U.S. Dlrs.    Taiwan's stock market plunged a record 75.53 points toclose at 1,803.08. REUTER
KUWAITI DINAR RATES FIRM, AID WINDOW OPEN Interest rates on Kuwaiti dinar depositsheld firm in scattered trading despite a Central Bank decisionto revive limited funding lines, dealers said.    The Central Bank, which last Tuesday shut a daily aidwindow through which it lent funds of up to one year, reopenedthe facility for three month money, which was available atseven pct, they said.    It offered one month funds at seven pct through swapfacilities, dealers said.    Today's Central Bank action, combined with sales of dollarsby some banks, helped ease a recent credit squeeze engineeredby the monetary authority to stem a rush for the U.S. Currencyarising from attractive U.S. Interest rates and Gulf tension,dealers said.    However, as one dealer noted: "The market is stillunsettled."    Overnight funds, bid at 20 pct at the outset of business,traded up to 30 pct before easing as liquidity dragged offersdown to 10 pct by the close. Tomorrow-next, for which buy/sellquotes started at 30, 20 pct, ended at 14, eight.    Spot-next was indicated at 8-1/2, seven after opening bidsof 10. Dealers quoted one-week at eight, seven against an early9-1/2, 7-1/2.    One month rates were at the same level after trade at eightthen 8-1/2. Dealers quoted three months at seven, 6-3/4 pct andsix-month to one year funds at seven, six pct. They reportedoffshore offers of overnight at 10, tomorrow-next at eight andone year at 6-1/2 pct towards the close.     The Central Bank fixed its dinar exchange rate steady at0.27933/67 to the dollar, against yesterday's 0.27939/73. Thespot dinar was 0.27930/40. REUTER
LAWSON SAYS LOUVRE CURRENCY ACCORD SATISFACTORY The Louvre agreement by the Group of Sevenfinance ministers and central bankers to stabilise currencieshas worked well and needs no fundamental strengthening at theeconomic summit in Venice on June 8-10, U.K. Chancellor of theExchequer Nigel Lawson said.    Previewing the summit, which he expected would not produceany major new economic initiatives, Lawson told reporters workremained to be done on improving the conditions for lastingworld economic growth.side measures to boost growth, he said.    "I think it is possible that there may be scope for afurther reduction in interest rates in Germany," he added, butstressed that he had had no indication that such a move waslikely. He made no mention of Japanese interest rates.    Lawson said the U.S. Should embark on "a gradual reductionof its fiscal deficits over the next two or three years."    He said the February 22 Louvre accord had produced"satisfactory exchange rate stability," in part thanks to heavycoordinated intervention of Group of Seven central banks, andhe was "content" with sterling's exchange rate.    Pointing to the record 4.8 billion stg rise in U.K. Maycurrency reserves announced today he said, "we have been playinga very full part ourselves ... We have been intervening to avery much greater extent than we had done hitherto."    Lawson said there was a risk that the Louvre agreement mayfalter if member states did not implement the macro-economiccommitments underlying the accord.    "Certainly it would be more difficult to maintain exchangerate stability if countries are seen not to implement theircommitments in Paris ... In this respect." He said the U.S.Budget deficit was "very important."    Noting the 6,000 billion yen economic package announced byJapanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone last week Lawsonsaid, "what is really needed in Japan is an increase inmerchandise imports. Supply side measures are critical."    "There is a specific range of consumer and agriculturalgoods where they have an extremely restrictive regime which iswholly unjustified," he said.    Lawson doubted that Tokyo's partners would indulge in "Japanbashing" at the summit especially after the economic stimulationpackage and the announcement of Nakasone's plans to increaseJapanese development aid over the next three years.    Japan's more flexible stance on Tokyo stock exchangemembership would also help deflect criticism, he said.    He said he thought West Germany would instead come underpressure at the summit to adopt similar stimulation measures tojack up faltering economic growth.    In this respect Lawson said he hoped Bonn would bringforward to January 1988 part of its agreed package of tax cutsscheduled for 1990. He also called on Bonn to push ahead withthe privatisation of German national industries.    On debt, Lawson said he expected a three point British planto alleviate the burden of the poorest sub-saharan countries tomake progress in Venice.    The plan, involving concessional rescheduling of sovereigndebt in the Paris Club, was first proposed at the IMF and WorldBank meetings in Washington earlier this year.    Lawson said he would seek "to consolidate political backingfor the plan at the Venice summit" and hoped the programme wouldbe finalised at the Autumn meetings of the IMF and World Bank.    He welcomed the recent moves by Citicorp and ChaseManhattan to increase sharply their Third World debtprovisions.    "First, it is a blow for realism. Second, because the marketresponse has shown that banks have much less to fear from thissort of move than they felt before Citicorp," he said.    U.K. Banks should follow Bank of England recommendations,strengthening their balance sheets and making more provisions."They have done it to some extent, they need to do it more,"Lawson said, adding it was up to the banks themselves todetermine the appropriate size of provisions.    He also said the dismantling of farm subsidies would bediscussed at the summit. "There is a consensus, which we have topush further." REUTER
GREENSPAN SAYS THERE IS EVIDENCE DOLLAR HAS BOTT Newly-nominated Federal Reserve Boardchairman Alan Greenspan said there was evidence the dollarfinally had bottomed out.    In a White House briefing Greenspan was asked by reportersif he thought the dollar had bottomed out.    "There certainly is evidence in that direction," he replied. Reuter
LAWSON CALLS INTERVENTION PROOF OF STABILITY GOAL The scale of foreign exchange interventionthe Bank of England has carried out recently is clear proof ofBritain's determination to stabilise exchange rates as agreedbetween the Group of Seven industrialised countries in Paris inFebruary, Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said.    Saying he was "content" with sterling's current value, Lawsontold reporters he wanted "to maintain the exchange ratestability we have all signed up for." He declined to say if hefavoured a rise or a fall from present sterling levels. May currency reserves, out today, showed a record 4.8 billionstg rise, pointing to massive currency intervention.    In April, reserves rose a hefty 2.9 billion stg.    Pointing to the reserves data, Lawson said, "We have beenplaying a very full part ourselves" in meeting our commitmentstoward exchange rate stability as agreed in Paris.    "We wish to see it (stability) continuing," he added.    Asked which techniques were available to preservestability, Lawson said both central bank intervention andinterest rate changes could be used to tackle "the marketpressures there are from time to time."    "Interest rate stability is not an objective in thatsense...Rates have to be moved up and down at times," he added.    Lawson said he expected intervention to be "sterilised" bydraining excess sterling liquidity from the market through newissues of government securities and foreign currency sales,when the market allowed.    This would limit the inflationary impact of intervention,he said.    "Sterilisation will be dictated by market tactics...Notnecessarily in the month in which intervention occurs," Lawsonsaid. "I am confident that we can sterilise on this scale." REUTER
FED NOT EXPECTED TO TAKE MONEY MARKET ACTION The Federal Reserve is not expected tointervene in the government securities market to add or drainreserves at its usual intervention time this morning,economists said.    With the Federal funds rate trading comfortably at  6-9/16pct, down from yesterday's 6.74 pct average, economists saidthe Fed did not need to take reserve management action today. Reuter
BUNDESBANK CREDIT POLICY CHANGES UNLIKELY The Bundesbank is unlikely to changecredit policies when its central bank council meets on Thursdayfor its last session before the Venice summit, bankingeconomists and money market dealers said.    The Bundesbank steered money market rates lower last monthby cutting the rate on its security repurchase pacts, and isunlikely to cap this move with a cut in leading interest ratesin the near future, they said.    The council will meet in Saarbruecken, and the meeting willbe followed by a news conference at around 1030 GMT.    But Bundesbank officials noted that a news conference wasusually called when the council meets outside Frankfurt, anddid not necessarily herald any policy moves.    Bundesbank Vice-President Helmut Schlesinger said todaythere was no reason to cut interest rates because money supplygrowth had shown no signs of slowing in May and the dollar wasstable against the mark.    Schlesinger told Reuters in Tokyo, where the Bundesbank hasopened a representative office, that the West German economywas now picking up after contracting by a seasonally adjusted1/2 to one pct in the first quarter.    Money market dealers said call money was likely to hold ina 3.50/70 pct range for most of this month, after theBundesbank switched last month to tenders by interest rate at aminimum bid rate of 3.50 pct, allocating funds at 3.55 pct.    "They have set this signal and indicated they could maybelower market rates even further, but not with the discount orLombard," Winfried Hutmann, chief economist of Schroeder,Munchmeyer, Hengst Investment GmbH said.    Werner Chrobok, managing partner at Bethmann Bank, saidGerman rates were among the lowest in industrial countries andaround historical lows for West Germany.    A further cut in rates would have little impact on theeconomy as banks are in any case reporting slack credit demand,with companies swimming in liquidity, Chrobok said.    The Bundesbank would therefore be reluctant to make a moveon interest rates, when this would be better held in reserve."The Bundesbank is frightened of using up its powder," he said.    A cut in the discount or Lombard rates, to bring them inline with the new structure of money market rates since lastmonth, would have little practical significance, dealers said.    The Bundesbank could therefore act on these if it wanted adiplomatic gesture before next week's Venice summit.    But Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl has often made itclear in the past he opposes such gestures as mere "eyewash."    Economists said it was really up to the Bonn government tocut taxes, rather than for the Bundesbank to ease monetarypolicy, to meet pressure on West Germany at the Venice summit.    But with Bonn struggling to finance already announced taxcuts and falling tax revenue widening the federal budgetdeficit, it is hard to see how Bonn could cut taxes further.    "The Bonn government will be in a very weak position inVenice because they can't risk increasing the deficit further,"said Schroeder, Muenchmeyer, Hengst's Hutmann.    Bethmann's Chrobok said if anything is to happen beforeVenice, it must be in fiscal rather than monetary policy. "But Idon't expect any convincing measures," he said.    Money market dealers noted that call money continued tonormalize today, falling to 3.60/70 pct from 3.75/85 yesterdayand as much as five pct on Friday when it was pushed up bymonth-end distortions.    Call money could come under upwards pressure later thismonth because of a major round of tax payments by banks onbehalf of customers, starting in the week beginning June 15.Two public holidays that week could also distort the market.    Dealers said they expected the Bundesbank to allocate fundstomorrow in the latest repurchase pact at an unchanged 3.55pct, after setting an unchanged minimum bid rate of 3.50 pct,and to fully replace the 5.5 billion marks in an outgoing pact.    But dealers said it was possible the Bundesbank wouldallocate funds at 3.6 pct rather than 3.55. That would notrepresent a tightening of policy, however.    Because the Bundesbank scales down bids which it allocatesat the minimum accepted rate, some banks may try to get a fullallocation by bidding heavily at 3.6 pct, dealers said.    On another issue, Poehl has said the Bundesbank is likelyto lift restrictions on private use of the European CurrencyUnit (ECU) at one of its meetings soon.    Saarbruecken would be a suitable place for an announcementon this gesture to European unity, as it is the capital of theSaarland bordering France, and was twice under Frenchoccupation this century.    But dealers said an ECU announcement was unlikely to comethis week, as a number of technical and legal matters had stillto be resolved, for instance how German ECU accounts would betreated for minimum reserve purposes. REUTER
LEUTWILER WANTS FIRMER MARK AGAINST SFR Fritz Leutwiler, chairman ofBBC AG Brown Boveri und Cie and a former Swiss National Bankpresident, urged the National Bank to declare its intent ofachieving a rising rate for the mark against the Swiss franc.    In a speech to shareholders, Leutwiler said, "A graduallyrising rate for the mark in relation to the franc would bedesirable from the standpoint of industrial exports and withregard to sustaining Swiss industry."    "Simply an appropriate declaration of intent by our bank ofissue (Swiss National Bank) could have a positive effect," hesaid.    Leutwiler, who served 10 years as head of the Swiss centralbank, said such a step would not contradict the National Bank'starget of monetary stability.    "Bringing the franc close to the mark would, of course, haveto be done step by step under the watchful eye of monetarypolicy," he told shareholders. "Realistically there is in fact nopersuasive reason why the German currency is quoted almost 20pct lower than the Swiss."    A National Bank spokesman said the relation of the mark andSwiss franc was an example of stable currency parities over along period of time.    The spokesman said exchange rates were made by the market,not the central bank, and it would be impossible to influenceindividual parities separately.    Leutwiler said the Swiss National Bank could not supportthe value of the dollar, even in conjunction with other centralbanks, without putting monetary stability in jeopardy.    "I would be the last to recommend that. The key to astronger dollar lies in the United States itself," Leutwilersaid. REUTER
VOLCKER DEPARTURE REVIVES DLR, INFLATION FEARS Paul Volcker's decision not to go for athird term as Federal Reserve Chairman and the nomination ofAlan Greenspan to replace him have revived deep concerns aboutthe U.S.' ability to prevent a further dollar decline and stemrising inflation, financial market analysts said.    Although Greenspan is known as a committed anti-inflationfighter in the Volcker mould, doubts are already surfacing inthe U.S. financial markets as to whether he has enoughpolitical clout and monetary experience to wage a toughcampaign against inflation over the next year or two.    "The critical issue is how (Greenspan) will deal withinflation," said Stephen Axilrod, Vice Chairman of NikkoSecurities Co International Inc and former staff director formonetary and financial policy at the Fed.    "A lot of questions have been raised by Volcker'sdeparture. Until Greenspan answers them, the markets willremain nervous," added Stephen Slifer, money market economistat Shearson Lehman Government Securities Inc.    This morning's announcement sent the dollar into atailspin, which was halted only by concerted central bankintervention in the open currency market. Reuter
KAUFMAN SAYS GREENSPAN NOMINATION BAD FOR BONDS Henry Kaufman, managing director ofSalomon Brothers Inc, said the nomination of economist AlanGreenspan to replace Federal Reserve Board Chairman PaulVolcker is bearish in the near term for the fixed income andcurrency markets.    "The basic direction of interest rates is not changed. Thefundamental direction of interest rates continues to be upward,interrupted by intermittent rallies," Kaufman said in astatement. He said the implication for equity markets inneutral to bullish.    Kaufman said, "Unlike Paul Volcker, who entered the officeof the Federal Reserve chairman with strong credibility bothdomestically and internationally, Mr Greenspan will have todemonstrate both his competence and policy independence beforehe can gain full confidence of the financial markets."    Greenspan is most knowledgeable on the behavior of the U.S.economy, while his professional skills in the internationalarea are much more limited, Kaufman noted.    "Consequently, although he is well known abroad, his viewson issues such as the Less Developed Country Debt may initiallycarry less weight than have those of Mr Volcker." Reuter
NEAR TERM STRENGTH SEEN FOR CURRENCY FUTURES Currency futures are likely to movehigher following the sharp rally today after President Reaganannounced that Paul Volcker would not accept a third term asFederal Reserve Chairman and that Alan Greenspan was nominatedas his replacement, currency analysts said.    Contrary to predictions before the Volcker resignation,analysts are calling for higher currency futures prices betweennow and the June 8 Venice economic summit.    In particular, uncertainty about Greenspan's attitude tothe dollar could undermine sentiment toward the U.S. currency,analysts said.    Greenspan said today that the dollar appeared to be nearinga bottom, but the market will bear in mind his remarks inChicago last week that the dollar's recent move upward was atechnical reaction and that it would trade significantly lower,analysts said.       "Disappointment of European central bankers over theappointment will be used as an opportunity to sell the dollarlower," said Manufacturers Hanover Futures vice president CarolMackoff.    "The international community will not like thisappointment," as it suggests the possibility that the U.S.budget deficit is too much of a burden on monetary policy andthat Volcker was unable to get the commitment he sought toreduce the deficit, added Merrill Lynch Economics analyst DavidHorner.     Furthermore, "that Greenspan was not named two months agosuggests that he was not the Administration's first choice --and that the status of his appointment was as a bridesmaid,"Horner said.    A declining dollar scenario with higher currency futuresprior to and throughout the Venice meetings would be mitigatedonly by concrete action as opposed to "jawboning" at the G-7summit, he said.    But G-7 finance ministers, judged by recent statements, maybe at an impasse, analysts said.    Japan and West Germany today reiterated that neitherplanned further interest rate cuts, despite pressure from theU.S. to do so, Mackoff said.    The U.S., on the other hand, has not cut its budget deficitas Japan and West Germany have urged, she said.    Should G-7 members force a U.S. commitment to cut itsbudget deficit in the next two years, a further decline in thedollar could be forestalled, Horner said.    However, "the impact from Venice will be nothing if nothingchanges," Horner said.    Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co. analyst Craig Sloanesaid European currencies will likely move to the higher end oftheir 1987 ranges after today's sharp advance.    For the next two weeks, Sloan calls for September yenfutures to advance toward the 0.007200 area. He said Septembermarks could close in on 0.5700 as an upside target, while Swissfrancs could climb to a range between 0.6900 and 0.6950. Reuter
Bank of Japan intervened buying small amount of dollars at 142.85 yen - Daiwa Singapore Ltd, wholly-owned byDaiwa Securities Co Ltd of Japan, yesterday launched a 100 mlnU.S. Dlr tranche of an equity warrant eurobond in Singapore forJapan's Minebea Co Ltd <MIAT.T>.    The five-year eurobond carries an indicative coupon rate ofone and 5/8 pct and will be managed from Singapore. Thewarrants may be exercised for shares in Minebea from July 1,1987 to June 10, 1992.    The bond was part of a 200 mln U.S. Dlr equity warrantEurobond issued by Minebea. Nomura International Ltd launchedthe other 100 mln dlr bond in London. REUTER
NAKASONE SAYS DOLLAR FALL ONLY TEMPORARY Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone said thedollar's sharp fall against the yen overnight was onlytemporary.    The dollar dropped sharply in New York after news that PaulVolcker would step down as chairman of the U.S. FederalReserve.    Nakasone told reporters he did not expect U.S. Policy tochange after Volcker steps down. REUTER
BAKER SAYS DOLLAR DROP WOULD BE COUNTERPRODUCTIVE Treasury Secretary JamesBaker said any further decline in the dollar against othercurrencies would be counterproductive.    Baker was asked after a speech to the Pan American EconomicLeadership Conference about U.S. policy in light of PresidentReagan's comment last week at the Venice summit that he couldsee some further decline in the dollar within reason.    "All of the G-7 nations believe that any further decline inthe dollar would be counterproductive," Baker told reporters.    Following the Venice press conference by Reagan, the WhiteHouse clarified Reagan's comments on the dollar by saying thatthe United States wants a stable dollar.    The main incentive for the United States to favor a weakerdollar has been the need to reduce the massive trade deficit,but the deficit has narrowed for the past two months andappears to be responding to the 40 pct drop in the dollaragainst the yen and the mark during the past two years. Reuter
JAPAN MINISTRY SAYS DOLLAR SHOULD BE ABOVE 170 YEN The dollar should worth more than 170 yenbased on purchasing power parity, the Ministry of InternationalTrade and Industry (MITI) said in its annual white paper oninternational trade.    Using 1973 as a base year, the ministry said inflationdifferentials pointed to a yen/dollar rate of 172 in fourthquarter 1986. The dollar opened here today at 144.90 yen.    MITI also said the so-called "J-curve" and the drop in oilprices together accounted for 33.2 billion dlrs of the 36.6billion dlr rise in Japan's trade surplus last year.    On a customs cleared basis, the Japanese trade surplus roseto a record 82.66 billion dlrs last year.    The ministry said the fall in oil prices accounted for 16.5billion dlrs and the "J-curve" 17.2 billion dlrs of the rise inthe 1986 surplus.    Analyzing the expansion in Japan's trade imbalance inrecent years, MITI calculated that 37 pct of it could beaccounted for by exchange rates, 24 pct by differences ineconomic growth rates between Japan and other countries, and 36pct by so-called price elasticities of imports and exports.    Analyzing the expansion in the U.S. Trade deficit from 1982to 1985, the ministry said 24 pct was accounted for by exchangerates, 34 pct by differences in the income elasticity ofimports and exports and 39 pct by differences in economicgrowth rates. The figures do not tally to 100 pct because otherminor factors have been left out.    "One index of trade structure, the income elasticity ofexports and imports, shows that the U.S. Is more likely toexperience increases in imports, while Japan is structurallypredisposed to growth in exports," MITI said.    Structural adjustment is already underway in Japan, underthe impact of the strong yen, MITI said. Japanese companies arestepping up their imports and expanding capacity overseas.    Japanese consumer attitudes are also changing. The ministrycited a survey showing that price was now the number one factorin the purchase of imports from the U.S. And Western Europe,replacing design and brand reputations.    "The smooth adjustment of the economic structure calls formeasures to address the needs of affected firms," it said. "Wholeindustries have felt the pinch and employment is expected tosuffer."    "Sustained economic growth, led by domestic demand, willalso be an essential condition," the ministry said.    It said four structural factors have contributed to thegrowth of the U.S. Trade deficit in recent years -- a declinein U.S. Industrial competitiveness, insufficient productivecapacity, an increase in foreign procurement by U.S. Companiesand short-sighted U.S. Management attitudes.    "While (U.S.) exports have picked up somewhat with thedollar's fall in value, no marked improvements have appeared inthe import picture," MITI said. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN MAY EXPAND BROKER CALL MARKET The Bank of Japan is considering expandingthe 60 billion yen daily limit on each securities firm'soutstanding transactions in the yen call market at the requestof the securities industry, Bank of Japan sources said.    But before doing this, the Bank is waiting to see theeffect on brokers' fund raising of the change, effective inAugust, to a shorter settlement period for cash bondtransactions, the sources said. REUTER
BUNDESBANK MAY LIFT VETO ON ECU USE - SOURCES The Bundesbank could announce todaythat it will lift its veto on the private holding of EuropeanCurrency Unit (ECU) liabilities, banking sources said.    But this would probably be the only significant news fromtoday's council session, brought forward from its usualThursday date because of the Corpus Christi holiday here. TheBundesbank is not expected to change credit policy.    The sources said Bundesbank officials had been working outtechnical and legal problems with the ECU since the subject wasdiscussed in the presence of federal finance minister GerhardStoltenberg on May 7.    With the primary internal work on the ECU completed,approval from the 18-member central bank council was nowvirtually a mere formality, the sources said.    Bundesbank president Karl Otto Poehl, chairing today'smeeting, said in mid-May the remaining ECU restrictions werelikely to be lifted, allowing individuals to open ECU accountsand incur liabilities previously mainly executed through theLuxembourg subsidiaries of the major German banks.    The sources said the ECU liberalisation was mainly designedto show that West Germany was prepared to play its part in theeffort to attain European Community monetary unity by 1992. REUTER
TAIWAN PARLIAMENT BACKS FREE CAPITAL OUTFLOWS Parliament approved a proposal to dropall controls on capital outflows, raising the prospect thatTaiwan's vast resevoir of foreign exchange will flow into theworld economy.    A government spokesman said the new law would bepromulgated by President Chiang Ching-Kuo within 10 days andfinancial authorities would then be empowered to lift controlson currency outflows at any time.    Tight restrictions on capital inflows introduced this yearwill remain in place, the spokesman said.    Central Bank Governor Chang Chi-Cheng has said the controlswill be lifted at the end of next month or early in August.    The central bank and finance ministry proposed liftingcurrency restrictions to help reduce Taiwan's foreign exchangereserves, which stand at about 60 billion U.S. Dlrs and haveled to runaway growth in money supply.    The reserves, the world's third largest after Japan andWest Germany, also draw attention to Taiwan's huge tradesurplus and the government fears they are making the island atarget for U.S. Trade protectionism.    The surplus rose 34 pct to a record 7.32 billion U.S. Dlrsin the first five months of this year and about 90 pct of itwas with the United States.    Money supply rose a seasonally adjusted 51.9 pct in theyear to end-April, raising fears of higher inflation.    Local bankers and economists say when the controls arelifted, businessmen will be allowed to buy foreign currency andinvest it freely overseas. But they warn against expectationsof a sudden outflow of capital.    "I don't think we're going to see a big bang," John Brinsden,the Taiwan manager of Standard Chartered Bank told Reuters in arecent interview.    Bankers said that businessmen have been holding vastquantities of foreign exchange overseas for many years and alsohave been freely buying and exporting currency through aflourishing black-market.    "Obviously there will be an outflow of funds ... But I don'tthink it's going to be much," said Danny Chan, director ofFidelity Securities Investment Consulting Corp.    Economists say the success of plans to encourage capitaloutflow depend on whether the central bank can slow the rise ofthe local currency.    The Taiwan dollar has risen by about 23 pct against theU.S. Dollar since September 1983, prompting an inflow ofspeculative money. It rose by one Taiwan cent today to close at31.08.    The government spokesman said the new law does not empowerauthorities to permanently lift capital controls, but anyproposal to reimpose them would need the approval ofparliament.    Many economists believe that once the controls are liftedit will be almost impossible to reimpose them. REUTER
NEW ZEALAND BUDGET FORECAST SEEN AS POSITIVE Analysts said they were surprised atthe government's announcement of a forecast budget surplus forfiscal 1988 but said it was consistent with previous policystatements and positive for the economy.    Finance Minister Roger Douglas predicted a budget surplusfor the year ending March 1988 of 379 mln New Zealand dlrsagainst a 1.95 billion deficit last year.    Analysts polled by Reuters said the forecast budget surpluswas even more positive than the most bullish analysts'forecasts and that this was good news for financial markets.    Market expectations among analysts questioned by Reutersbefore the budget varied widely between a balanced budget and a2.3 billion dlr deficit. But none predicted a surplus.    The forecast initially looks positive for both the bond andthe foreign exchange markets, one analyst said. Paradoxically,the New Zealand dollar could rise in the medium term, despitelower interest rates, as overseas investors became moreconfident about investing in New Zealand, he said.    However, some foreign exchange dealers disagreed, sayingthe local dollar is primarily interest rate driven and willmove lower.    The local dollar dropped to 0.5940/50 U.S. Dlrs in afterhours trading, against 0.5970/77 just before the budgetrelease.    Analysts said the budget was also positive for the sharemarket, despite an increase in the contribution of companytaxation to revenue figures.    One equities analyst predicted that the budget surplusannouncement could push the share market up by 50 pointstomorrow.    The Budget statement was broadly as expected, with acontinuation of existing policies, and the absence oftraditional pre-election incentives would be viewed positivelyby overseas investors, another said.    But one merchant bank economist said that certain anti-taxavoidance measures could damage some sectors of the sharemarket, particularly multi-national companies.    The government is also lowering its borrowing requirements,through bond tenders, as a result of the surplus. Therequirement for the rest of the year is now down to 950 mlnN.Z. Dlrs from a predicted 1.75 billion.    Predicted revenue in the Budget looked sustainable andthere appeared to be no holding back on expenditure, anothereconomist said. He added that the document seemed entirelycredible.    "Altogether it looks good for Labour's election prospects,"he said.    An election is due before the end of September. REUTER
FED'S SEGER SAYS FOREIGN EXCHANGE MARKETS SHOWI Today's U.K. Economic data have pushedthe chances of another base lending rate cut from the currentnine pct further into the distance, analysts said.    A record fall in unemployment and good manufacturingproduction data showed that the economy is still strong anddoes not need a fillip from lower rates.    News that underlying earnings are rising 7.75 pct annually,taken together with higher than expected bank lending and moneysupply growth, revived inflation worries and monetaristarguments against easier credit, they said.    "The timetable on lower interest rates is being pushed backall the while. The strength of the economy and broad moneygrowth are making it more difficult to see one in the nearterm," said Chase Manhattan Securities economist Robin Marshall.    Analysts have reached this conclusion despite yesterday'smortgage rate cuts for new borrowers, which building societiessaid were a sign of the expected near term trend for U.K.Rates.    It also counters the optimistic forecasts of last week thata post-general election cut was imminent, supported by suchoptimistic economic news as May's record reserves rise whichmirrored the Bank of England efforts to cap sterling'sstrength.    The gilt market lost nearly half a point as enthusiasmabout May's 64,300 fall in the seasonally adjusted unemploymentrate, to 2.95 mln or 10.6 pct of the workforce, was rapidlyreplaced by dismay at the continued high level of underlyingaverage earnings in April, dealers said.    The upset was compounded by news that sterling bank lendingrose 2.7 billion stg in May, above forecast, and that the Bankof England looks likely to have to sell more gilts to offsetthe impact on domestic money supply of its currentintervention.    "The gilt market reaction was correct," said Bill Martin,chief U.K. Economist at brokers Phillips and Drew.    "That's very important ... It shows the economy in a verygood state indeed," Skeoch said.    "There's no reason to get worries about inflationarypressures because they're very subdued." Unit wage cost riseswere better than expected, just one pct higher in the year toApril, and it was these costs rather than average earningswhich were potentially inflationary, he added.    "I don't think these average earnings numbers are a majorproblem," agreed Chase Manhattan's Marshall.    But he said the gilts market was likely to remain worriedabout the funding implications of recent intervention.    He said the inflow of foreign money into sterling assetsearlier this year, attracted by growth prospects and hopes thatthe ruling Conservatives would win last week's election, nowlooks likely to prevent a base rate cut as the authorities tryto prevent these funds swelling the domestic money system.    However, David Owen, U.K. Economist at Kleinwort GrievesonSecurities, said any fresh sterling strength would stilltrigger a base rate cut and that today's figures did not signalhigher inflation this year.    "Wage increases are being offset by productivity growth. Aslong as that continues we're okay," he added. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES The Federal Reserve will enter thegovernment securities market to supply reserves via either alarge round of customer repurchase agreements or by overnightor possibly four-day system repurchases, economists said.    They said the Fed has a fairly large add need and is likelyto face the most reserve dislocations early in the newstatement period started today as corporate tax payments swellTreasury balances at the Fed.    Fed funds hovered at 6-3/4 pct after averaging 6.80 pctyesterday. Reuter
FED SAYS IT SETS TWO BILLION DLRS OF CUSTOMER RE Becor Western Inc said itsreconvened shareholders meeting has been adjourned to 1000 CDTJune 30.    The company had previously announced plans to again adjournthe meeting following receipt of a renewed offer from LynchCorp <LGL> yesterday.    The meeting was originally convened on June four whenshareholders approved the sale of Becor's Western Gear Corpsubsidiary before adjourning. The remaining matter to bepresented is the proposed acquisition of Becor by BCWAcquisition Inc, now one of four offers for the company./ Reuter
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered thegovernment securities market to supply temporary reservesindirectly via two billion dlrs of customer repurchaseagreements, a spokesman for the New York Fed said.    Fed funds were trading at 6-3/4 pct when the Fed beganits action. Reuter
JAPAN STILL WANTS SPECULATIVE DLR DEALS LIMITED The Finance Ministry is still askingfinancial institutions to limit speculative dollar dealings,Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told reporters.    He was responding to rumours in the New York currencymarket overnight that the Ministry was reducing its pressure oninstitutions to refrain from excessively speculative dollardealings. REUTER
FED DATA SUGGEST NO CHANGE IN MONETARY POLICY New U.S. Banking data suggest theFederal Reserve is guiding monetary policy along a steady pathand is not signalling any imminent change of course, economistssaid.    But they also said that if money supply growth remainsweak, as this week's unexpected eight billion dlr M-1 declinesuggests it may, this could influence the Fed to loosen itscredit reins and move toward a more accommodative monetarypolicy.    A Reuter survey of 17 money market economists produced aforecast of a 600 mln dlr M-1 decline for the week ended June8, with estimates ranging from a gain of one billion dlrs to adecline of four billion. Instead, M-1 fell eight billion dlrsto 745.7 billion dlrs at a seasonally adjusted annual rate.    Coming on the heels of a 4.3 billion decrease in M-1 forthe week ended June 1, this means the nation's money supply hasfallen more than 12 billion dlrs in the past two weeks,economists said.    "M-1 has hit an air pocket of weakness," said Bill Sullivanof Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.    While M-1 may have lost its significance as an indicator ofeconomic growth, Sullivan said Fed officials might be concernedthe latest drop in M-1 means another month of sluggish growthin the broader monetary aggregates, M-2 and M-3, which are seenas better gauges of economic growth.    Latest monthly M-2 and M-3 data showed that as of May, bothmeasures were growing at rates below the bottom of the Fed's5-1/2 to 8-1/2 pct target ranges.    If money growth does not accelerate, Fed officials,concerned that this indicates economic growth is flagging,could turn toward easier monetary policy, economists said.    "Does this mean that the Fed abandons its current openmarket position? No," Sullivan said. "But does this mean the endof tightening for the time being? Definitely yes."    Economists said average adjusted discount window borrowingsof 385 mln dlrs for the latest two-week bank statement periodwere lower than they had expected. Most believed the Fed hadtargetted a two-week borrowings average of around 500 mln dlrs.    But they said that if it had not been for a large one-daynet miss in the Fed's reserve projections, the higherborrowings target would probably have been reached.    A drop in May U.S. Housing starts and continued weakness inauto sales show key sectors of the U.S. Economy are lagging,while a recent modest 0.3 pct gain in May producer prices hashelped dispel inflation fears, Slifer said.    "If this continues, we can entertain the notion of Fedeasing at some point," he said.    Other economists said the Fed would probably pay littleattention to weak money supply growth. "It has been a number ofyears since M-1 has given good signs of what's going on in theeconomy," one said. "I don't think M-1 shows that the economy isfalling apart and the Fed should ease."    Economists agreed a stable dollar will continue to be aprerequisite for any move by the Fed toward easier monetarypolicy.    They said the Fed is reluctant to lower short-term ratesfor fear this would spur expectations of a weaker dollar andhigher inflation which would push up long-term yields and chokeoff econmomic growth.    But Sullivan said the dollar has been steady since lateApril. "The Fed has to determine if this represents afundamental change for the dollar. If it does, then this givesthem more room to ease," he said. REUTER
TAIWAN DOLLAR AND RESERVES SEEN RISING MORE SLOWLY Recent government moves to curb capitalinflow have temporarily helped to slow the rise of Taiwan'sforeign exchange reserves and to stabilise the local dollaragainst the U.S. Currency, officials and bankers said.    Central bank governor Chang Chi-Cheng told reporters thereserves rose only about 500 mln U.S. Dlrs in the past twoweeks and the local dollar appreciated more slowly against theU.S. Dollar.    Chang said, "The pace of increase in our reserves is muchslower now than before and our currency is getting more stable."He said the reserves, mainly the result of the trade surpluswith the U.S., Rose at the rate of two to three billion U.S.Dlrs a month between January and May.    The reserves, the world's third largest after Japan andWest Germany, now total well over 60 billion U.S. Dlrs.    On June 2 the central bank froze overseas borrowings oflocal and foreign banks and cut the limit on central bankpurchases of forward U.S. Dollars from banks to 40 pct from 90pct of the value of a contract.    Local and foreign bankers said the June 2 measures haddrastically limited their ability to lend foreign exchange toimporters and exporters.    They said their overseas borrowings and forward dollartransactions showed a drastic decline with some banksregistering a fall of up to 30 pct.    Bank dealers said the Taiwan dollar has stabilised againstthe U.S. Currency this week after rising two to five Taiwanesecents a day between June 2 and 13 compared with a rise of fiveto eight cents in May.    The bank dealers said the central bank, which hadpreviously bought U.S. Dollars heavily, sold at least 1.1billion U.S. Dlrs in the past two weeks to meet commercialdemand.    They said they expected the government to keep the localdollar stable in the near term to give breathing space tobusinesses experiencing slower exports because of the rise ofmore than 23 pct in the value of the Taiwan dollar sinceSeptember 1985.    The Taiwan dollar opened at 31.09 to the U.S. Dollar today,unchanged from yesterday.    Keh Fei-Lo, vice president of First Commercial Bank, said,"It appears the central bank's move to curb the capital inflowis quite successful."    Vice economic minister Wang Chien-Shien said the slowerrise in foreign exchange reserves would help ease pressure fromWashington over the large U.S. Trade deficit with Taiwan.    Over the past year Taiwanese businessmen have delayedimports of machinery and production equipment because ofexchange rate uncertainty, he said. The stable exchange ratewould help boost imports, particularly from the United States. REUTER
JAPAN PANEL URGES WORLD ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENTS Japan could avoid a sharp rise in thevalue of the yen against the dollar if Japan, the U.S. Andother nations succeeded in restructuring their economies, anadvisory panel to the government's Economic Planning Agency(EPA) said.    The advisory body said in its report that the yen wouldsoar against the dollar if structural adjustments on a globalbasis were delayed.    An EPA official told Reuters the dollar could fall toslightly below 100 yen by 1993 if Japan and the U.S. Failed torestructure their economies.    The dollar's fall without structural adjustments would cutJapan's current account surplus to two pct of gross nationalproduct (GNP) in 1993, the report said. It said such a changewould slow real GNP growth to an average of two pct annuallyduring the seven-year period to 1993.    If the two nations restructured their economies, the dollarwould remain stable in real terms, while reducing Japan'scurrent-account surplus to 2.1 pct of GNP in 1993. Thisscenario put Japan's GNP growth at 3.5 pct a year.    It forecast real growth of three pct for the world economyand four pct for Japan by 2,000 if the adjustments were made. REUTER
FED EXPECTED TO ARRANGE SYSTEM REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve is likely to addtemporary reserves to the banking system this morning byexecuting system repurchase agreements, economists said.    The Fed faces a need to add a large volume of reserves thisstatement period to offset a drain caused by rising Treasurybalances at the Fed after the June 15 tax date.    Most economists are predicting over-the-weekend systemrepurchases. But some, who see a smaller adding requirement,are forecasting a less aggressive combination of three- andsix-day repos. Fed funds were trading at 6-3/4 pct, close toyesterday's 6.81 pct average. Reuter
FED SETS SIX-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASES,  Canon Inc of Japan said Canonof Virginia Inc has opened a 26 mln dlr 289,000 square footplant in Newport News, Va.    The company said the plant will initially make 700 to 1,000Canon dual-color copiers a month, and other business equipmentlines including laser beam printers and electronic typewritersmay be phased in later. Reuter
FED SETS SIX-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered thegovernment securities market to arrange six-day repurchaseagreements for system account, a spokeswoman for the New YorkFed said.    Fed funds were trading at 6-3/4 pct at the time of thedirect injection of temporary reserves, dealers said.    Economists had expected three- or six-day repurchasesbecause the Fed needs to add a large volume of reserves thisstatement period. Reuter
VENEZUELA PROBES ALLEGED FOREIGN EXCHANGE FRAUD Banking authorities and police areinvestigating an alleged fraud by the second largest tradinghouse in the Caracas free foreign exchange market, FinanceMinister Manuel Azpurua told reporters.    The Superintendency of Banks and the Technical and JudicialPolice have both begun probes of Cambio la Guiara, Azpurua saidon Friday night.    Police said the owners of the firm, Mario Muggia and hisbrother Luigi Muggia, have left Venezuela.    Cambio la Guiara operated in part on the "parallel market" inwhich traders buy and sell dollars among themselves.    The Venezuelan central bank on June 17 suspended thelicences of all 21 foreign exchange operators in the parallelmarket, blaming their speculation for the constant rise in thevalue of the U.S. Dollar here.    Juan Domingo Cordero, vice-president of the Caracas StockExchange and the owner of a foreign exchange trading house,said on Friday he had begun legal action against Cambio laGuiara for issuing him four checks without funds for a totalamount of almost one mln dlrs.    The Cambio la Guiara exchange house had operated inVenezuela for more than 20 years. REUTER
 NORWAY CENTRAL BANK SELLS CROWNS TO EASE UPWARD  The Bank of Japan has become increasinglyworried about a possible crash of high-flying financialmarkets, Bank of Japan sources said.    "We're afraid that someday the bubble will burst and thatthe deflationary impact on the economy will be very disastrous,"one source said.    They said the central bank has embarked on a delicatepolicy -- it wants to deflate the speculation that has pumpedup prices sharply in recent months without bursting the bubble.    Stock prices plunged 393.31 points today, extending thesharp declines of earlier this month, as the market speculatedthat interest rates would rise.    The Bank of Japan bought 100 billion yen in certificates ofdeposit (CDs) via repurchase agreements today to show itsdetermination to maintain an easy money policy, central bankofficials said.    Today's CD buying operation was designed to reassure themarket the Bank has not changed its policy, a senior centralBank official told Reuters.    "There is a possibility that a deflationary impact wouldpermeate the economy if the prices of existing assetscollapsed," the Bank of Japan said earlier this month in itsannual economic report.    Such a possibility has been heightened by what the Banksees as excessive speculation in stock, bond and land prices.    Over the last two years, the stock market average hasdoubled, driving price/earnings ratios to over 70, comparedwith about 15 on Wall Street. Bond yields have dropped sharply,while land prices in Tokyo have soared.    The excessive speculation means the markets areincreasingly out of touch with economic reality and thus morevulnerable, one central bank source said.    A collapse now could rob businessmen and consumers of whatlittle confidence they have in the economy after theyen-induced recession of the past year, private economistssaid.    Some hard-pressed exporters already make greater profitsthrough financial dealings than from their basic businesses,they said.    "There seems to be an accelerated demand for money tosupport transactions in shares, bonds, land and other existingassets which has little bearing on value added and therefore onGNP," the Bank of Japan said in its report.    The increased inclination of investors to seek capitalgains and the accompanying rise in prices of existing assetscould have dangerous implications for the economy, it added.    In the Bank's view, a major reason behind skyrocketingprices was its own easy monetary policy and the belief in themarket that interest rates were heading inexorably lower.    Mindful of the potential inflationary dangers posed byexcessive liquidity, the Central Bank's board recently decidedit had to spell out clearly to the markets that a furtherdiscount rate cut was not in the offing, one source said.    But the bank had to do that without tightening monetarypolicy and running the risk of a market collapse.    This was achieved partly by a rise in short-term interestrates, which Bank sources ascribed to seasonal pressures and toa change in market expectations.    While denying the bank was tightening monetary policy, asenior source welcomed the change in market expectations.    The source acknowledged the shift may have been causedpartly by the decision to press commercial banks to limitlending in the July/September period. Faster than expectedeconomic growth and a strong dollar also played a part.    In the longer run, the Central Bank is counting on agradual upturn in the economy to draw liquidity from thefinancial markets into productive areas like capital spending,one Bank of Japan economist said.    But while it waits for that to occur over the next sixmonths, it may have to avoid any overt tightening of monetarypolicy that could collapse the market and lead to recession. REUTER
NORWAY CENTRAL BANK SELLS CROWNS TO EASE PRESSURE Norway's central bank sold crowns in theopen market in a bid to ease strong upward pressure on thecurrency, which threatens to rise above set levels in a basketof currencies, dealers said.    The central bank declined comment, but dealers noted thebank had also intervened and sold small amounts of crowns onFriday. The bank is committed to defending the crown at certainlevels in a basket of 14 trade-weighted currencies.    "They've been in again this morning, selling piecemealwhenever they think necessary," a senior dealer at an Oslo bank,who declined to be identified, told Reuters.    The crown's index is currently around 109.60 in the basket-- close to its upper limit of 109.50 which the central bank iscommitted to defending.    A low index figure indicates a high value for the crown.The limit at the other end of the scale is set at 114.50.    The crown has been bolstered by high Norwegian interestrates, currently around 16 pct in the money market, and betterthan expected economic indicators which showed a sharplyreduced foreign trade deficit in May and inflation stabilisingaround the current annual rate of 10 pct. REUTER
FED SETS TWO-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASES,  Cyclops Corp said shareholdersapproved a previously announced merger of the company with asubsidiary of dixons Group PLC.    It said Dixons held about 83 pct of Cyclops stock followinga tender offer and other purchases earlier in the year.    With the completion of the transaction, Dixons will proceedto pay 95 dlrs a share to the remaining Cyclops shareholders. Reuter
FED SETS TWO-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered thegovernment securities market to arrange two-day repurchaseagreements for system account, a spokesman for the New York Fedsaid.    Federal funds were trading at 6-3/4 pct at the time of thedirect injection of temporary reserves, in line with Friday's6.72 pct average. Reuter
VENEZUELA LOWERS EXCHANGE RATE FOR OIL EARNINGS Venezuela's cabinet approved a newexchange rate for oil and mining export earnings, setting it at14.50 bolivars to the dollar from 7.50 bolivars previously,Minister Manuel Azpur UA said.    Azpur told reporters after a cabinet meeting that themeasure is "fundamental to conserving the economic and financialstrength of the petroleum industry."     He said the new exchange rate, which goes before thecentral bank for final approval tommorrow, will allow the stateoil company Petroleos De Venezuela, S.A.(PDVSA) to solve itsproblem of working capital and implement investment plans,estimated at 20 billion bolivars for 1987. He did not say whenthe measure would become effective.   Venezuela's oil industry previously sold its dollar earningsto the government at 7.50 to the dollar but bought foreignexchange from its imports at 14.50 bolivars.   The new exchange rate will promote purchases of domesticgoods and services by the industry, Azpur said. He added thatit would also put PDVSA in a position to purchase moregovernment debt bonds.                            PDVSA had available liquid assets of 20 billion bolivars atthe start of this year, of which nine billion were in a trustfund in the Central Bank of Venezuela (BCV) and placed ingovernment bonds.  According to a contract between PDVSA and the central bank,the BCV must provide cash as the oil industry requries byrepurchasing the bonds.    PDVSA's contribution to the treasury last year was 44.480billion bolivars. It foreign earnings for oil and petrochemcialsales were 8.023 billion dlrs. Reuter
IF DOLLAR FOLLOWS WALL STREET JAPANESE WILL DIVEST If the dollar goes the way of Wall Street,Japanese will finally move out of dollar investments in aserious way, Japan investment managers say.    The Japanese, the dominant foreign investors in U.S. Dollarsecurities, have already sold U.S. Equities.    But "if the dollar falls steeply, which did not happenyesterday, Japanese investors will definitely try to withdrawsignificant funds from U.S. Shares," said Akira Kawakami, deputymanager of Nomura Investment Trust and Management Co Ltd'sinternational investment department.    An unstable, lower dollar would also affect Japaneseinvestment in U.S. Bonds. "Japan-U.S. Interest ratedifferentials, which currently look wide enough, mean nothingin the absence of dollar stability," said Kawakami.    U.S. Bonds could benefit due to a gloomy economic picturefollowing the estimated huge losses in stocks by major U.S.Institutional and individual investors, he said. The effectshould be to rule out any U.S. Interest rate rise.    But most Japanese investors in U.S. Bonds are still wiatingto see if the dollar really is stable, he said. The dollar washolding firm at above 142 yen on Tuesday morning.    "Although Japanese investors sold huge amounts of stocks inNew York yesterday, most are still looking for chances tolighten their U.S. Stock inventories," Hiromitsu Sunada, managerof Meiji Mutual Life Insurance Co's international investmentdepartment said.    Their sales helped send Wall Street stocks down 508 pointsto 1,738, the market's biggest percentage drop since 1914.    "Investment in U.S. Stocks and bonds is difficult,considering the dangers," said Katsuhiko Okiyama, deputy generalmanager and chief adviser of Yamaichi Securities Co Ltd's fixedincome securities marketing group.    Japanese investment at home could start to pick up oncemarkets have stopped reacting to Wall Street, the managerssaid. The Tokyo yen bond market is likely to stabilise in oneor two weeks, which is what investors have been waiting for.The bottom for yen bonds should be around a 6.3 pct yield forthe 5.1 pct 89th bond, they said.    "The basic background which has supported the stocks andbonds markets has not changed," said Norio Okutsu, assistantgeneral manager of Nikko Securities' bond department. "But newoutflows of funds to the U.S. Will be decreasing."  However,this was already evident three months ago, he said. REUTER
Sumita welcomes U.S.-West German joint confirmation of Louvr Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita saidhe welcomed Monday's U.S. And West German joint confirmation oftheir commitment to the Louvre accord.    Sumita said in a statement that world stockmarkets wereexcessively concerned about the economic future.    The Bank of Japan will continue to adhere to a system ofpolicy coordination based upon the Louvre accord of February,he said. The accord called for stability in foreign exchangerates. Exchange rates generally are regaining stability and theeconomies of industrialised nations are heading for a steadyrecovery, he said. REUTER
NEW ZEALAND WILL CONTINUE FIRM MONETARY POLICY The Reserve Bank of New Zealand saidthere was no evidence to suggest the fall in share prices hadaffected financial stability and it would maintain its firmmonetary policy.    Governor Spencer Russell said in a statement the centralbank did not accept arguments that the battle against inflationshould now take a low second priority after the sharemarket'splunge.    Russell said the bank had two statutory responsibilities --to implement the government's monetary policy to bring downinflation, and to ensure the financial sector's stability.    "Unless the bank is directed otherwise, the firm monetarypolicy will continue because it is very much in the nationalinterest that it do so," he said.    "And there is yet no evidence available to the bank tosuggest that the fall in share prices has affected thestability of the financial sector."    The Barclays share index fell a record 504.75 points to2,925,26 on Tuesday, a decline of 14.7 pct. REUTER
STOLTENBERG SAYS BAKER MEETING UNDERSCORES ACCORD West German Finance minister GerhardStoltenberg said the meeting on Monday with U.S. TreasurySecretary James Baker underscored the determination of the U.S.And West Germany to continue close cooperation to stabiliseforeign exchange rates.    Stoltenberg told a news conference "The statement releasedyesterday (Monday) after the private meeting .... Emphasizedour determination to continue the close economic cooperationregarding foreign exchange stabilization and monetary policy."    Stoltenberg said that he, Baker and Bundesbank PresidentKarl Otto Poehl had a very constructive discussion and had allreached a positive evaluation of the Louvre accord during theirmeeting on Monday.    Stoltenberg said initial contacts with several Europeancounterparts showed that they shared this view. "We expect thedeclaration of our unified position to have a positive effect,"he said.    He noted that the dollar firmed again in late U.S. Tradingafter the outcome of the Baker meeting was published. REUTER
LOUVRE ACCORD VITAL TO W.GERMANY - STOLTENBERG West German Finance Minister GerhardStoltenberg said the Louvre accord was vital to West Germany.    Stoltenberg told a news conference "Given West Germany'sunusually high dependence on world trade and exports, it isvital for West Germany ... To continue its constructivecontribution to trusting (international) cooperation on thebasis of the Louvre accord."    Some monetary analysts have speculated thatinflation-conscious Bundesbank vice president HelmutSchlesinger may have been leading the central bank to a courseof tighter monetary policy.    Stoltenberg is due to attend a routine Bundesbank meetingon Thursday in West Berlin. He declined to forecast what, ifany, policy decisions the Bundesbank might take. REUTER
Stoltenberg does not rule out central bank intervention to stabilize cu West German new carregistrations rose four pct last month compared with September1986, and were 28 pct higher than August's figure, the FederalMotor Office said.    September new car registrations totalled 234,518, up from225,581 in the same month a year ago and from 183,224 inAugust.    In the first nine months of this year, new carregistrations rose 2.9 pct to 2.18 mln from 2.12 mln duringJanuary/September 1986.    Total vehicle registrations in the period rose to 2.42 mlnfrom 2.35 mln in January/September last year. REUTER
STOLTENBERG DOES NOT RULE OUT INTERVENTION West German Finance Minister GerhardStoltenberg said he could not rule out the possibility ofcentral bank intervention to support currencies.    Asked at a news conference whether central banks wereprepared to intervene to defend currencies, he said "We cannotrule out the use of any instrument which leads to foreigncurrency stability."    However, he added that in the end, it was market forceswhich prevailed. REUTER
LOUVRE REAFFIRMATION NOT ENOUGH - U.K. ANALYSTS U.S. And West German reaffirmation ofsupport for the Louvre Accord cannot cure the fundamentalproblems bedevilling the world economy which lie behind thecurrent collapse in stock markets, London economists said.    "There's going to have to be some acknowledgement that thedollar is going to be allowed to slip," said Richard Jeffrey ofHoare Govett. "If not, there is going to be continued fear thatwhen pressure emerges on the dollar, the Fed will be forced totighten. This throws up the economic abyss of recession in theU.S. With obvious knock on effects on the rest of the world."    But some economists added that Wall Street's crash, whichdragged other major markets down with it, may help curb thevery problems that sparked the turmoil - namely world inflationfears and the massive and persistent U.S. Trade deficits.    "If there is a benefit from a 23 pct fall in Wall Street...It's some sort of resistance to inflation worldwide," saidGeoffrey Dennis of brokers James Capel, echoing comments fromother London and Tokyo analysts.    Lower personal wealth from lower stock prices and fears offurther falls should dampen credit growth, curbing inflationarypressures and import demand in the U.S., They say.    Such considerations may be helping bond markets resist theequity crash, according to Mike Osborne of Kleinwort Grieveson.    "It would be suicidal for any government in the context ofwhat happened in the last couple of days to jack up theirinterest rates," he added.    Stocks surged after news Chemical Bank cut its primelending rate half a point to 9.25 pct Tuesday and U.S. Fedchairman Alan Greenspan pledged support for the financialsystem.    The news eroded the most immediate fears that the stockcollapse would spill over into the economy, via a bankingcrisis for example, thus precipitating recession.    It also helped the dollar rally sharply, to a high of1.8200 marks from a European low of 1.7880. But economists saidtoday's whiplash moves do not have long term significance andthat markets should try to keep the underlying fundamentals inmind.    "The United States has been able to live on borrowed time.If the effect of this (crash) is to produce slower economicgrowth not recession...It contains good news (and) provides amore realistic assessment of the U.S. Economy," said Capel'sDennis. But he added that markets are still very much indanger.    "The liquidity doesn't disappear...All it's doing isdisappearing from the equity markets," Dennis noted.    David Morrison of Goldman Sachs International said worldmarket turbulence will be exacerbated if the Group of Seven(G-7) leading western nations confirms a base for the dollar,as implied by West German Finance Minister GerhardStoltenberg's remarks that intervention to support currenciesis still on.    Last week's dollar fall was partly triggered byexpectations that the Germans were more worried about the moneysupply impact of such intervention than maintaining currencystability.    But rigid adherence to dollar ranges would be bad, saidMorrison. "The Louvre Accord is fundamentally misconceived. Tostabilise the dollar at too high a level is wrong," he said. Reuter
FED EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER RPS The Federal Reserve is expected to enterthe government securities market to add reserves via customerrepurchase agreements, economists said.    They expected the amount to total around 1.5 billion to twobillion dlrs.    Economists added that the low rate on federal fundsindicates the Fed is unlikely to add funds agressively throughovernight system repurchases, unless it feels the need to calmvolatile financial markets.    Federal funds were trading at 7-1/8 pct, down fromyesterday's average of 7.61 pct. Reuter
 Poehl says chances for exchange rate stability  French Finance Minister Edouard Balladurhas been in contact with several Finance Ministers from theGroup of Seven leading industrial countries, in particular WestGerman Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg, to discuss thecrisis on world markets, Finance Ministry sources said.    They did not say whether the contacts had led to concertedaction on the markets or merely an exchange of views.    But they added that French ministry officials werecontinuing the contacts to exchange views on marketperformance. Reuter
POEHL SEES GOOD CHANCES FOR CURRENCY STABILITY Bundesbank president Karl Otto Poehlsaid there were good chances for exchange rate stability.    "The chances for exchange rate stability are good," he toldreporters. Reuter
LAWSON SAYS U.S.-WEST GERMAN ROW WAS UNNECESSARY U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer NigelLawson said the recent dispute between the United States andWest Germany over economic policy was responsible for muchfinancial turmoil and that it should never have happened.    He said in a television interview the dispute had fannedfears of a breakdown in the cooperation which is so importantbetween finance ministers of the major nations.    He said the dispute was a row which should not havehappened and agreed that much of the blame lay with U.S.Treasury Secretary James Baker who had publicly criticised WestGermany for having raised its key interest rates. REUTER
BAKER SEEN WINNING GERMAN INTEREST RATES BATTLE The United States appears to have won atransatlantic battle by forcing the Bundesbank to trim interestrates, European economists said.    But they added Washington set the stakes high by testingthe limits of the Louvre accord while global stock markets wereplunging.    West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and U.S.Treasury Secretary James Baker reaffirmed their commitment tocurrency stability at a secret meeting yesterday in Frankfurt,according to official statements released late Monday.    Only 13 hours after the statements were released, theBundesbank reduced short-term interest rates by offering banksliquidity at a fixed bid rate of 3.80 pct, down from a 3.85 pctfacility rate offered last week.    While the two ministers were meeting with Bundesbankpresident Karl Otto Poehl, the central bank had also addedmoney market liquidity repeatedly, signalling it did not want astrong rise in the tender allocation rate on Tuesday.     "It's round one to the Americans, " said Richard Reid,senior European economist for brokers UBS/Philips and Drew inLondon.    But Reid added, "We shouldn't forget that it has taken oneof the biggest stock market crashes in decades to get the WestGermans to cut their security repurchase rate by a 0.05percentage point."    Over the weekend, criticism by Baker of earlier tighteningof West German monetary policy led to a sharp dollar fall andfuelled speculation that the Louvre accord was no longer valid.    Six leading industrial nations agreed under February'sLouvre Accord to stabilise currencies and coordinate monetarypolicies. It has since been reaffirmed by the Group of Seven -the US, Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada.    The Frankfurt meeting on Monday soothed currency marketsand the dollar gained over two pfennigs in after hours tradingin New York. At the Frankfurt fixing on Tuesday, the dollar wasquoted at 1.7918 marks compared with 1.7740 on Monday.    Guenther Aschoff, chief economist at DeutscheGenossenschaftbank in Frankfurt said massive declines on worldstock markets had been the main reason for the fall in WestGerman short-term interest rates on Tuesday.    "The Bundesbank wanted to set a marker after stock marketlosses... That was the responsible thing to do and if it fitswith Baker's wishes, then all the better," he said.    No central bank wants to let interest rates rise, and theBundesbank had been forced to put its rates up following risesin the U.S., Aschoff said.    Poehl told a conference in Frankfurt on Tuesday the centralbank has no interest in higher capital market rates and hethought the global rate increase was a cause for concern.    Giles Keating, economist with Credit Suisse First BostonLtd in London said "The cautious Bundesbank has beaten a retreatand Baker has won a battle...But he hasn't won the war as thesecurity repurchase rate is still 20 points higher than it wasbefore the IMF meeting last month in Washington."    Before the IMF meeting, when the Louvre Accord wasreaffirmed, the Bundesbank was offering money market liquidityat 3.60 pct, Keating noted.    Economists said the United States now appeared to haveagreed to play by the rules of the Louvre Accord and supportthe dollar in return for the German action on interest rates.    Any further sharp decline of the dollar would hinderWashington's efforts to reduce its trade deficit, Stoltenbergtold a news conference on Tuesday. He added he would not ruleout central banks of leading industrial countries interveningon exchange markets to defend the dollar's value.    Deutsche Genossenschaftbank's Aschoff stressed WestGermany's heavy dependence on exports and the need for currencystability. In addition, both the U.S. And West German centralbanks were keen to avoid a dollar slide which would force themto again spend vast sums intervening to support the dollar. REUTER
STOLTENBERG SAYS CRITICISM NOT "ONE-WAY STREET" Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said hewas surprised by recent criticism of West German economicpolicies voiced by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker butadded that the criticism was not purely one-sided.    Stoltenberg told the West German Trade and IndustryAssociation (DIHT) that before a meeting with Baker on Monday,"There had been surprising notes of criticism (from the UnitedStates)." He added. "Criticism is not a one-way street."    He did not elaborate, but Bonn has often called on the U.S.To reduce its federal budget deficit.    Over the weekend Baker had criticised West German economicpolicies, saying that rises in domestic interest rates herewere not in the spirit of last February's Louvre pact tostabilise currencies.    Stoltenberg told the DIHT that his meeting on Monday withBaker had resolved differences between the two countries.    At a news conference earlier on Tuesday Stoltenberg haddeclined to comment specifically on Baker's criticisms, but hehad said that after three hours of discussions on Monday, "oneremark or another has been clarified." Reuter
SENATOR URGES ACTION TO STABILIZE STOCK MARKETS Sen. John Heinz, R-Pa, urged theAdministration to take steps to reduce volatility in thefinancial markets, including suspending program trading andlimiting daily trading on stock index futures.    Heinz said margin requirements for index futures, now sixpct, should be the same as for common stock and equities.    He urged creation of a task force to be headed by formerFederal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker to coordinateinternational credit and montary policies among major nationsand stabilize interest rates at the lowest possible levels. Reuter
TREASURY'S BAKER UNDER FIRE FOR WALL STREET DROP As official Washington sought torestore investor confidence after Monday's Wall Streetcollapse, Treasury Secretary James Baker came under fire fromcritics who claimed he helped to precipitate the crisis.    Baker's weekend blast at the West German Bundesbank forboosting interest rates seemed to signal an unraveling of aninternational accord to stabilize currency values.    Nigel Lawson, British Chancellor of the Exchequer, wasamong those who said the treasury secretary's statements helpedspur a wave of stock sales by making already jittery investorsthink that a clash between the two major economic powers woulddamage the world economy.    Lawson told a London television interviewer Tuesday, "Ithink the scale of the (stock) fall was very great. That, Ithink, was partly due to statements that have been made bysenior figures on the other side of the Atlantic." It was adispute that should never have happened, he added.    Although Baker appeared to patch over the rift at ahastily-called meeting with West German officials Monday, he  still faced a storm of criticism on his return to the UnitedStates on Tuesday. Baker cut short a long-planned trip toScandinavia to return here to deal with the economic crisis.    Said one U.S. analyst of Baker's weekend remarks, "Histiming could not have been worse."    One government bond salesman in New York said, "He actuallythought that yelling at the Germans, and threatening to smackthe dollar down would work. That doesn't show muchunderstanding of international monetary gamesmanship."    However, some analysts said West Germany's stubborn marchtoward higher interest rates may have forced Baker's hand.    "On the surface Baker may look responsible for this, but ifyou go back to see what caused it (unsettling of financialmarkets), it was West German policy," said Robert Brusca ofNikko Securities International in New York.    "All Mr. Baker did was to mention the obvious in public, somaking him responsible for it was a little like killing themessenger," he said.    After Monday's talks, the U.S. and West German governmentsmade it clear that the Louvre currency accord, pieced togetherin Paris in February, was still in effect.    Wall Street feared that collapse of the agreement might bea prelude to hyper-inflation and economic malaise similar tothe late 1970s. Analysts believe Monday's Wall Street crashwiped out about 500 billion dlrs in stock values.   Treasury sources said that Baker, already unhappy aboutBonn's refusal to stimulate its economy in order to keep theglobal recovery moving, was angered by a Bundesbank interestrate boost that seemed destined to do just the opposite.    He felt that the U.S. recovery, inching along in its 59thmonth, could no longer be the only engine of global economicexpansion. A growing U.S. economy has been serving as a hugemarket for debtor country exports.    Moreover, Baker, the consummate politician, was worriedthat the Republican party might face next year's presidentialelection with its main showpiece -- a vibrant economy -- badlytarnished.    A rise in global interest rates might worsen the debtcrisis and completely choke off U.S. economic growth that hasalready slowed to a tepid 3.2 pct annual rate.    "There's no doubt that it can have an adverse effect on theeconomy, and it's important that the psychology turn aroundquickly, or else obviously the panic will feed on itself, andeventually there'll be a serious price to pay economically,"former deputy Treasury Secretary Richard Darman said in atelevision interview.    In many ways, the official response was mild.    Washington was stunned by the sudden Wall Street retreat,with President Reagan speaking for most people by admittingthat he was "puzzled."    U.S. government sources said the secretary immediatelyreturned to the Treasury to be briefed on market developmentsand, presumably, their political impact.    For all of this, it seems unlikely that Baker's status inWashington will diminish because of the market fall.    Asked by reporters if somebody's head should roll becauseof the Wall Street retreat, Texas Democratic Senator LloydBentsen said with some irony, "Oh, I think it's much too late tobe doing that...You have an administration that's taken theattitude that we can put the country on automatic pilot and ---retire to the living room to take a nap. You just can't dothat." Reuter
REAGAN SAYS U.S. COMMITTED TO LOUVRE ACCORD President Reagan said the UnitedStates remains committed to the Louvre accord in which theseven major industrial nations agreed to stabilize currencyexchange rates.    "The United States remains committed to the Louvreagreement," Reagan said in a statement following a meeting withhis top economic advisers.    Reagan said the United States, Japan and West Germany hadall reaffirmed their commitment to coordinate economicpolicies.    Reagan said Japanese Prime Minister-designate NoboruTakeshita said in a telephone conversation Tuesday morning that"his (Takeshita's) top priority was to maintain stable economicrelations with the United States."    Reagan noted that Treasury Secretary James Baker met withWest German financial officials and reaffirmed their commitmentto the Louvre agreement.    They "reaffirmed our agreement to coordinate economicpolicies to provide for non-inflationary growth and stableexchange rates," Reagan said. Reuter
Dollar opens sharply higher in Tokyo at 143.55 yen (Monday close Chase Manhattan Corp (CMB)president Thomas Labrecque said the sharp decline in the stockmarket was not justified by economic conditions and there was aneed for perspective by investors on fundamental economicconditions.    "If we are right about the fundamentals, this thing shouldsettle down," Labrecque said at a news conference at theAmerican Bankers Associatioon annual convention here.    Labrecque also said the stock market drop could cause U.S.monetary officials to ease credit policies.    Inflation fears are exaggerated and Chase still believesinflation will not rise much beyond five percent this year,Labrecque said.   He said strong economic conditions would permit growth tocontinue well into 1988.    "I don't think the stock market will cause a recession,"Labrecque said.    He said he could not estimate what the impact on Chase fromthe stock market fall would be. Chase's stock price, however,dropped 23 pct, but other money center banks suffered evensharper losses.    Referring to the banking industry, he said: "We're talkingabout one day."    "These are strong institutions," he said. Labrecque said hedid not think the Federal Reserve Board would tighten monetarypolicy in view of the stock market's behavior.    "If there is a bias I expect it would be a little bit theother way," he said. Labrecque said the high U.S. budget deficitwas not the single most important factor behind the market'sworries.    He called for closer cooperation in economic policy by theUnited States, West Germany, Japan and Britain. Reuter
BAKER/STOLTENBERG MEETING SOOTHES MARKETS News of a meeting between U.S. TreasurySecretary James Baker and West German Finance Minister GerhardStoltenberg on Monday soothed currency markets, allowing thedollar to recoup much of the day's losses, dealers said.    News of the meeting, which took place in Frankfurt in greatsecrecy, came after the dollar fell sharply on criticism byBaker of West German monetary policy, which had provoked fearsthat the Louvre pact on currency stability was in jeopardy.    The dollar reacted immediately to the news, rising over twopfennigs in after hours New York trading, dealers there said.    The announcement of the meeting, also attended byBundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl, was made simultaneouslyin Bonn and Washington, timed for after the closure of New Yorkmarkets.    Baker, Stoltenberg and Poehl agreed to pursue the policiesaccepted under the February Louvre accord, a finance ministryspokesman in Bonn said.    The dollar rose to 1.7970/90 marks from New York's close of1.7730/40. It had closed there on Friday at 1.7975/85 marks.    The dollar had tumbled nearly three pfennigs as the marketreacted to Baker's criticism of rising West German interestrates, and stock markets crashed worldwide. Baker had said thatWest Germany was apparently breaching the Louvre accord.    Under the accord, leading industrial democracies pledged tocoordinate economic policies to foster currency stability, withthe surplus countries, West Germany and Japan, stimulatingtheir economies and the U.S. promising to cut its budgetdeficit.    West German government sources said rising West Germanmoney market rates could not be seen as a breach of the Louvrepact. They were rather a direct reaction to higher interestrates in the United States. U.S. Bond yields have been risingsince May on inflationary fears and in early September the Fedraised the discount rate to 6.00 pct from 5.50.    German yields have also risen over this period, but lessmarkedly, and since late September the Bundesbank has nudged upshort-term rates by changing the terms on its securityrepurchase pacts, its principal instrument for steering themoney market.    The allocation rate on the last facility was 3.85 pct,compared with 3.60 pct. This was partly due to West Germany'sinability to uncouple itself from U.S. interest rate trends,but also reflected concern among monetary conservatives in theBundesbank central bank council about excessive monetarygrowth, which raised fears of domestically produced inflation,bank economists said.    This monetary tightening reflected a switch from thepragmatic line pursued by Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehlsince early this year to stabilise the mark externally, to themore cautious approach of Vice President Helmut Schlesinger.    In an apparent gesture to Baker, coinciding with his visit,the Bundesbank repeatedly added money market liquidity thismorning. Dealers said this was clearly a move to appease U.S.anger over the most recent West German interest rate rises.    "They (the Bundesbank) just don't want to come too muchunder American fire," said Chris Zwermann, currency adviser atSwiss Bank Corp here.    "It seems to me that this is the Bundesbank beating quite asignificant retreat from its position," added Giles Keating,economist at Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd in London.    The significance that retreat will emerge from the terms ofthe Bundesbank's next tender for a securities repurchase pacton Tuesday, and its result on Wednesday, money marketeconomists said.    Today's injection of liquidity shows that the Bundesbankdoes not want a further strong rise in the tender allocationrate, which is likely to turn out at between 3.80 and 3.90 pct,little changed from the 3.85 pct on the last facility.    The Bundesbank and Finance Ministry had given no indicationthat the meeting would take place, although the FinanceMinistry spokesman said it had been arranged last week.    Earlier on Monday the Finance Ministry spokesman, asked tocomment on the apparent U.S.-German clash over the Louvreaccord, went no further than quoting Stoltenberg as saying heassumed monetary cooperation would continue.    The spokesman said he believed Baker had already left WestGermany for Sweden on Monday. This week he is also due to visitDenmark and Belgium. Reuter
LAWSON WELCOMES REAFFIRMATION OF LOUVRE ACCORD U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer NigelLawson welcomed on Monday the reaffirmation by the U.S. AndWest Germany of the Louvre accord aimed at stabilisingcurrencies.    His office said Lawson had welcomed the outcome of ameeting between U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker, BundesbankPresident Karl Otto Poehl, and West German Finance MinisterGerhard Stoltenberg in Frankfurt.    After the meeting, a Bonn finance ministry spokesman quotedStoltenberg as saying he was confident that foreign currenciescould be stabilised at around current levels.    The meeting came after Baker criticised West Germany forincreasing key interest rates, saying they were not in linewith last February's Louvre accord. Reuter
BONN CONFIDENT OF MAINTAINING CURRENCY STABILITY U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker met WestGerman Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and BundesbankPresident Karl Otto Poehl in Frankfurt on Monday, a BonnFinance Ministry spokesman said.    After the meeting the spokesman quoted Stoltenberg assaying he was confident that foreign currencies could bestabilised at around current levels.    The meeting came after Baker criticised West Germany forincreasing short-term money market interest rates. He had saidthe rise was not in line with the spirit of the Louvre accordaimed at stabilizing the U.S. dollar last February.    The meeting had been arranged last week, the spokesmansaid. Baker, Stoltenberg and Poehl had agreed to pursue thepolicies agreed under the Louvre pact with reference tocurrency stability and monetary policy.    Earlier on Monday the Bundesbnak injected liquidity intothe West German money market in a move which money marketdealers interpreted as an attempt by the West German monetaryauthority to curb interest rate rises.    The spokesman described Monday's talks, which he calledprivate, as very positive. Reuter
U.S. TREASURY'S BAKER MEETS WEST GERMAN MINISTER U.S. Treasury Secretary James Bakermet West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg andBundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl today in West Germany andagreed to support the Louvre pact, the Treasury Departmentsaid.    The Treasury described the meeting as "a very positive,private meeting in Frankfurt, West Germany which had beenagreed upon last week. "The parties agreed to continue economiccooperation under the Louvre agreement and its flexibleapplication including cooperation on exchange rate stabilityand monetary policies," the Treasury said.    The Treasury said Baker and Stoltenberg "are consulting withtheir G-7 colleagues and are confident that this will enablethem to foster exchange rate stability around current levels."    The Louvre pact is an agreement between the Group of Sevenleading industrial countries including the United States andWest Germany to promote currency stability.    Baker was scheduled to visit Scandinavia and Belgium thisweek and the department earlier refused to release details ofhis travel itinerary, citing security considerations. Reuter
German Finance Ministry confident of maintaining currency stability at around current levels - s Shr loss two cts vs loss 1.79 dlrs    Net profit 4,959,000 vs loss 56.2 mln    Revs 290.3 mln vs 245.0 mln    Nine mths    Shr loss 75 cts vs loss 1.78 dlrs    Net loss 9,390,000 vs loss 44.2 mln    Revs 800.8 mln vs 838.6 mln    NOTE: Full name is AMCA International Ltd. Results in U.S.dlrs. Latest qtr earnings include pension refund of 10 mlndlrs, representing loss of two cts per shr after payment ofpreferred dividends. Reuter
GERMAN BANKER CALLS FOR SPECIAL MONETARY MEETING Finance ministers from major industrialnations should hold a special meeting to deal with the U.S.Dollar's sharp decline, Helmut Geiger, president of the WestGerman savings bank association, said.    Geiger told Reuters: "Finance ministers should meet soon totake confidence-building measures to limit the damage caused bythe dollar's fall."    Separately, Geiger told Bild newspaper in an interviewreleased ahead of publication on Tuesday that the lower dollar,which had been artificially talked down by U.S. officials,would damage West German exports and cost jobs. Reuter
BALLADUR URGES G-7 TO RESPECT LOUVRE ACCORD French Finance Minister Edouard Balladursaid the Group of Seven (G-7) industrial countries shouldrespect pledges on monetary policy made in the February Louvreaccord on currency stability.    "We have to strengthen the cooperation between the sevenmajor industrial countries and remind ourselves of the pledgeswe made at the Louvre," he told journalists.    "They were not simply pledges to maintain currencystability, but also to conduct a certain type of economic andmonetary policy," he added.    Balladur's comments came after U.S. Treasury SecretaryJames Baker said on Sunday that the U.S. Would have tore-examine the Louvre accords in the light of the rise in WestGerman short-term interest rates.    Balladur was one of the main architects of the Louvreaccord and has invested considerable political capital indefending them. REUTER
FED'S JOHNSON SAYS LOUVRE ACCORD ALIVE, BUT CITES U.S.-GERMAN DIF The Senate Agriculture committee votedto limit changes in county loan rate differentials startingwith the 1988 crop as part of a budget deficit reductionpackage.    The panel also approved measures that could trigger largercorn and wheat acreage reduction requirements, increasefarmer-held reserve storage payments, reduce a potential milksupport price cut, and require advance deficiency payments forproducers of major crops.    A proposal to require imported tropical oils be labeled onU.S. food products failed by a 10-8 vote. Reuter
FED'S JOHNSON WARNS AGAINST LOWER DOLLAR Federal Reserve Board Vice-ChairmanManuel Johnson cautioned against seeking "quick-fix solutions" topersistent U.S. trade and federal budget deficits.    In particular, he told an American Stock Exchangeconference, a decline in the dollar below current levels wouldexacerbate financial market conditions.    "Trying to artificially depress the dollar severely belowcurrent levels ... would exacerbate financial market conditionsand lead to further potential for financial problems."    Nowhere, Johnson said, are Fed officials hearing that U.S.businesses cannot compete at current exchange rates.    He acknowledged the U.S. trade deficit was persistingdespite a decline in the dollar's value of 40 to 50 pct in thepast two years.    But the deficit is improving in volume terms and will soonbegin showing improvement.    "The stage I think is being set for a healthy, constructiveexpansion without inflationary instability," he said. Reuter
 Balladur urges G-7 to respect pledges on monetary policy in Louvr Periods ended September 30    Oper shr 24 cts vs six cts    Oper net 1,297,881 vs 312,295    Sales 60.5 mln vs 52.2 mln    First half    Oper shr 39 cts vs 13 cts    Oper net 2,099,679 vs 711,530    Sales 118.1 mln vs 103.7 mln    NOTE: 1986 operating net excludes losses from discontinuedoperations of 154,661 dlrs, or three cts a share, in quarterand 409,476 dlrs, or seven cts a share, in half. Reuter
G-7 SEEN FIGHTING TO KEEP CURRENCY PACT International monetary officials will rush to paper over the deep cracks that have appeared in theLouvre accord on currency stability to prevent a dollarfree-fall and to calm turmoil in world capital markets,economists and currency traders said.    "I don't think the Louvre is dead because if it breaks upin an acrimonious way, the potential outcome is a rout of thedollar, higher interest rates and collapsing stock markets.It's in the Group of Seven's interest to calm things down,"said Douglas Madison, corporate trader at BankAmerica Corp.       In a weekend television interview, U.S. Treasury secretaryJames Baker sharply criticised a recent rise in West Germanmoney market rates and said the eight month-old Louvre pact tofoster exchange rate stability needs to be reviewed.    His comments rocked the currency markets and helped sendthe already-fragile U.S. and overseas stock markets into atailspin.    The dollar lost more than two pfennigs in the U.S. to about1.7740/50 marks and about one yen to 141.25/35 yen. The DowJones Industrial Average slumped more than 200 points at onestage and U.S. Treasury bonds dropped about 1-3/4 points.    Reuter
TRANSATLANTIC ROW IMPERILS LOUVRE ACCORD-DEALERS The Louvre accord on currency stability,which has maintained an uneasy calm in currency markets sincelast February, appeared in serious danger today as atransatlantic dispute over West German interest rates came tothe boil, foreign exchange dealers said.    But as the dollar slid against the mark and world stock andbond markets plunged, officials in the major industrialcountries played down the dispute as a bilateral problembetween the United States and West Germany and insisted thatthe currency pact was still alive.    U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker sparked the marketfears when he attacked the rise in West German short-terminterest rates. "That's not in keeping with the spirit of whatwe agreed to as recently as earlier this month in Washington,"Baker said in a U.S. Television interview on Sunday. He wasreferring to the meetings of Finance Ministers from the Groupof Seven (G7) leading industrial nations which reaffirmed thepact.    Under the Louvre Accord West Germany and Japan, who bothhave large trade surpluses, pledged to boost their economicgrowth to take in more exports from the U.S., While the U.S.Agreed to stop talking the dollar down.    However, Baker said on Saturday that while the Louvreagreement was still operative, the West German interest ratemove would force the U.S. To re-examine the accord.    "The foreign exchange market has been told by Baker thathe's going to hammer Germany ... He has just declared all betsare off in terms of currency cooperation," Chris Johns, currencyanalyst at UBS-Phillips and Drew in London said.    But a Bank of Japan official took a much more sanguineview, telling Reuters that "the exchange market is apparentlyreacting too much, and anyone who sold the dollar on the Bakercomment will regret it later on."    French Finance Minister Edouard Balladur, who hosted theLouvre meeting, was the only one of the G7 Finance Ministers torespond directly to Baker's remarks. He called for "a faithfuland firm adherence by all the major industrial countries to theLouvre accords -- in both their letter and spirit."    Neither the West German Finance Ministry nor the BritishTreasury commented on the row.    But a Japanese Finance Ministry official said that despiteU.S. Frustration over higher interest rates abroad, "this doesnot represent its readiness to scrap the basic framework of theLouvre Accord."    In Frankfurt F. Wilhelm Christians, joint chief executiveof West Germany's largest bank, Deutsche Bank, said thatfollowing recent meetings with Baker, he believed that the U.S.Was still committed to the accord.    In a move which the market interpreted as a possiblegesture of reconciliation, the Bundesbank added short-termliquidity to the West German money market at 3.80 pct onMonday, down from the 3.85 pct level at which it injectedmedium-term liquidity last week. The Bank of France alsostepped into the French money market to hold down rates,injecting short-term liquidity at 7-3/4 pct after rates roseclose to eight pct. Reuter
STOLTENBERG ASSUMES COOPERATION WILL CONTINUE The West German government assumes that thecommitment to international monetary cooperation which wasrenewed in Washington last month will continue, a FinanceMinistry spokesman quoted Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenbergas saying.    Stoltenberg's statement was a reaction to criticism ofrises in West German interest rates voiced by U.S. TreasurySecretary James Baker over the weekend. Reuter
 Stoltenberg says he assumes monetary cooperation will  Shr eight cts vs six cts    Net 22 mln vs 18 mln    Revs 994 mln vs 910 mln    Nine mths    Shr 19 cts vs 20 cts    Net 55 mln vs 54 mln    Revs 2.9 billion vs 2.7 billion    NOTE: 1987 3rd qtr and nine mths include pre-tax gains offrom antitrust settlement of 2,000,000 dlrs and 6,000,000 dlrsrespectively.    3rd qtr 1986 includes pre-tax gain of 65 mln dlrs from saleof MCI Airsignal subsidiary, and after-tax extraordinary lossof 17 mln dlrs from early redemption of 9-1/2 pct subordinatednotes. Reuter
WEST GERMANY STILL COMMITTED TO LOUVRE ACCORD West German government sources said Bonnremained committed to the Louvre Accord to stabilisecurrencies, which was struck by leading western democracies inParis last February.    Over the weekend, U.S. Treasury Secretary James Bakercriticised recent rises in West German short-term interestrates and said such developments were not in the spirit of theLouvre pact. He said the agreement may have to be re-examined.    The sources said the West German interest rate rises had tobe seen in the context of interest rate developments worldwide. Reuter
FED SEEN ADDING RESERVES VIA SYSTEM REPOS The Federal Reserve is expected to enterthe government securities market to supply reserves to thebanking system via system repurchase agreements, economistssaid.    Most economists said the Fed would execute three-day systemrepurchases to meet a substantial need to add reserves in thecurrent maintenance period, although some said a moreaggressive add via overnight system repos was possible.    Federal funds opened at 7-5/8 pct and remained at thatlevel late this morning, compared with an average effectiverate of 7.55 pct Friday. Reuter
 Bank of France added money market liquidity at 7-3/4 pct - GAF Corp said the management groupled by chairman Samuel J. Heyman intends to reconsider itsproposal to acquire GAF.    On September 8, the group offered 64.00 dlrs in cash and2.50 dlrs principal amount of 15 pct junior subordinateddebentures due 2007 for each GAF share.  Heyman owns about2,700,000 of GAF's 33.5 mln shares outstanding.    In a letter to the committee of independent directorsformed to consider the offer, Heyman said it will have tomodify the terms of the offer if it is to continue the bid, dueto rising interest rates and financial market conditions.    Heyman said "In the considerable time that has elapsedsince our original proposal was submitted, the credit andfinancial markets have experienced extraordinary and almostunprecedented deterioration.  As of the present time, theaverage interest rate on the financing which we proposed toraise in connection with the acquisition has increased, sincethe original proposal, by approximately 150 basis points."    He said the group intends to promptly review all availableoptions, including the revision of its offer to reflect currentmarket conditions. Reuter
GERMAN FINANCIAL POLICY MAKERS IN RARE DISSENSION Karl Otto Poehl, head of West Germany'scentral bank, and Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg arenormally so much in agreement that some foreigners doubt thecentral bank's independence.    But a rare public row between the ebullient Poehl,president of the Bundesbank, and Stoltenberg, over acontroversial investment tax proposal, has added to the woes ofthe country's already nervous financial markets, bankers said.    Poehl told an investment symposium in Frankfurt lastThursday he feared the tax would raise borrowing costs andinterest rates    Stoltenberg quickly issued a statement rebutting Poehl'scriticism, saying West Germany would remain an attractive placefor foreign investors.    "The obvious lack of coordination between the Bundesbank andFinance Ministry does not instil confidence in foreigninvestors," said one economist for a London broker, who askednot to be identified.    Bankers here expressed confidence the two top financialpolicy-makers would quickly patch up their relationship tosteer the economy through a particularly difficult time.    "There are plenty of objective pressures which will resultin things getting back to normal again after a period of illfeeling," said Commerzbank AG chief economist Juergen Pfister.    News on October 9 that the government was planning a 10 pctwithholding tax wiped billions of marks off shares and bonds ina market already reeling from rising interest rates at home andabroad.    Bankers said the Bundesbank was angered by the way thefinance ministry announced the plan -- without consulting theBundesbank adequately, and allowing apparently conflictingdetails to dribble out into an unprepared and uncertain market.    Both Poehl, 57, and Stoltenberg, 59, have been underextraordinary pressures lately.    Poehl has had to switch to the hard line promoted by hisdeputy, Helmut Schlesinger, jacking up interest rates to fightinflationary fears and abandoning the pragmatic policies he hadpursued so far this year to promote currency stability.    In recent statements Poehl has sounded more likeSchlesinger. For years the softly-spoken economist has beenwarning in speech after speech that excessive money supplygrowth would eventually lead to rising prices.    Schlesinger now has a majority of support in the Bundesbankcouncil, and since late summer Poehl has had to represent hisviews, bankers said.    "Poehl is in a minority in his own house," said Commerzbank'sPfister.    "Poehl is in a dilemma. He must follow a policy that is notentirely his own," said another economist.    The dilemma is that if German interest rates rise too far,they will attract funds into the country, pushing up the markand hurting West German exporters.    The dollar has now shed some seven pfennigs since theBundesbank's new tack became clear in early October.    Since last Thursday, United States Treasury Secretary JamesBaker has criticized the Bundesbank rate increases.    Bankers said this could foreshadow a revival of the 1986war of words between the U.S. And West Germany, in which U.S.Officials talked down the dollar to force West Germany tostimulate its economy and thus suck in more U.S. Exports.    One way West Germany agreed to do this was making a roundof tax cuts worth 39 billion marks from 1990.    But financing these tax cuts has proved more difficult forStoltenberg than he had bargained for.    The cool, unflappable northerner, who was regularly votedmost popular government politician last year, had to faceresistance from local barons in the government coalitionparties and from trade unions to his planned subsidy cuts.    The withholding tax was intended to plug one gap by raising4.3 billion marks.    But it has caused an outcry among bankers, who say it willpush up borrowing costs. The extra amount this costs thegovernment could wipe out the revenue the tax brings in.    Meanwhile Stoltenberg is dealing with a local political rowwhich has turned into the country's worst political scandal.    Stoltenberg had to leave monetary talks in Washington lastmonth early to sort out a row in the northern state ofSchleswig-Holstein, where he heads the ruling CDU party.    The state's CDU premier, Uwe Barschel, had to resign afterallegations of a "dirty tricks" election campaign led to heavylosses for the CDU in state elections.    Barschel was found dead in a hotel bath in Geneva lastweekend. Police say the death appears to have been suicide.    Cooperation between Poehl and Stoltenberg is all the moreremarkable as Poehl is in the opposition Social Democrats, andwas appointed by former chancellor Helmut Schmidt.    When Poehl's contract came up for renewal earlier thisyear, Chancellor Helmut Kohl's CDU-led coalition governmentgave Poehl another eight-year term.    Werner Chrobok, managing partner at Bethmann Bank, said hehoped the two men would soon be of one opinion again.    But when Poehl criticized Stoltenberg's tax plans he wasnot only voicing what many bankers felt but demonstrating theBundesbank's independence of government, Chrobok said. REUTER
PAPERS SAY VENEZUELAN CENTRAL BANK CHIEF TO RESIGN Venezuelan Central Bank President HernanAnzola has submitted his resignation and asked President JaimeLusinchi to transfer him to a post in the oil industry, twoleading Venezuelan newspapers reported.    The El Universal and El Nacional papers said Anzola wouldleave his position soon. Lusinchi already has decided on hissuccessor, the El Nacional reported.    Central Bank officials were not available for comment.    Banking sources said Anzola differed with the FinanceMinistry over economic policy, particularly over the directionof interest rates. He favoured raising the rates, which arecurrently well below the annual inflation rate of 33.2 pct.    But the sources said he ran into opposition from FinanceMinistry and government officials who thought an interestincrease would fuel inflation. REUTER
 Bundesbank adds money market liquidity at 3.70-3.80 pct  French Finance Minister Edouard Balladurissued a firm call for the continued faithful application ofthe Louvre accords on currency stability by all majorindustrial countries.    Balladur, responding to weekend remarks by U.S. TreasurySecretary James Baker that the U.S. Would take another look atthe accords, said "I firmly desire a faithfull and firmadherence by all the major industrial countries to the Louvreaccords -- in both their letter and spirit."    On Sunday, Baker said last week's rise in short-term WestGerman interest rates was not in keeping with the accords.    The Louvre accords, agreed in Paris last February, calledfor stability among the major currencies after a prolongeddollar slide.    The accords were reaffirmed by the Group of Seven FinanceMinisters in Washington last month.    But Baker said at the weekend that the West German raterise was "not in keeping with the spirit of what we agreed to."    "What I'm really saying is that they should not expect us tosimply sit back here and accept increased tightening on theirpart on the assumption that somehow we are going to followthem," he added. REUTER
VOLKSKAS BANK SEES RAND HINGING ON INFLATION RATE South Africa must drive down itsinflation rate to much lower levels to prevent a furtherdecline in the rand, said Volkskas Bank in its monthly economicreview.    The bank said that without a major drop in the inflationrate, the rand was bound to eventually decrease even more,regardless of a sharp rise in the gold price.    Inflation is running at an annual rate of some 17 pct andthe rand is around 49.53 U.S. Cents. Most economists estimatecontinued high inflation.    Volkskas predicted the rand will remain fairly steady forthe rest of 1987 and then ease slightly next year. REUTER
BANKS EXTEND TRADING HALT IN LEBANESE POUND Lebanon's Bankers Association said itextended its suspension of trading in the Lebanese pound fortwo more working days to study ways to stem the currency'scollapse.    The Central Bank did not post the rate of the pound to thedollar and other currencies on Monday. The pound closed onThursday at 407.00/412.00 to the dollar compared withWednesday's close of 384.00/386.00.    Association sources told Reuters Friday's suspension oftrading for two working days was continued on Monday for twomore days so as to study proposals to reinforce the pound.    The Association, which comprises 106 commercial banks ineast and west Beirut, halted trading on Friday in a chaoticmarket after the pound crashed to four record lows in the week.    The pound, hit by the inability of Lebanon's religiouslyand ideologically divided government to end 12 years of civilwar, has lost more than 80 pct of its international value thisyear. REUTER
LOUVRE ACCORD STILL IN EFFECT, JAPAN OFFICIAL SAYS The Group of Seven (G-7) industrial nationsstill comply with last February's Louvre accord to stabilizecurrencies, a senior Bank of Japan official said.    And U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker's remarks at theweekend indicating the need to revise it do not herald a lowerrange for the dollar, other senior officials from the Bank ofJapan and Finance Ministry agreed in interviews.    "The exchange market is apparently reacting too much, andanyone who sold the dollar on the Baker comment will regret itlater on," the Bank of Japan official told Reuters.    The Bank official said Baker did not mean to talk thedollar down. A lower dollar would harm the U.S. Economy, henoted.    A Finance Ministry official who was directly involved inmonetary talks with other nations also said the U.S. Wouldnever attempt to lower the reference range for the dollaragainst the mark or the yen.    The market assumes the dollar reference range to be between140-150 yen and between 1.70 and 1.90 marks.    The dollar closed in Tokyo today at 1.7730/35 marks and141.35 yen.    "Behind Baker's remark was U.S. Frustration over higherinterest rates abroad, especially in West Germany, but thisdoes not represent its readiness to scrap the basic frameworkof the Louvre accord," the Finance Ministry official said.    He said that on the contrary Baker wanted to avoid anyfurther rise in U.S. Interest rates because it would not onlyhurt the U.S. Economy but aggravate the Third World debtproblem.    Higher U.S. Interest rates would merely raise theirinterest payment burden and depress U.S. Stock and bond marketsfurther, the monetary officials said.    Both the ministry and central bank officials, who declinedto be named, noted the U.S. No longer wants to see a furtherdecline of the dollar because that could also fan inflationaryexpectations in the U.S.    "That's why Baker did not fail to add that the Louvreagreement is still operative," the senior ministry officialsaid.    Baker said in a U.S. Television interview on Sunday thatWashington would reexamine the Louvre accord because of WestGermany's increase in short-term interest rates.    The market at first interpreted this as indicating the U.S.Would be ready to scrap the Louvre accord and let the dollardecline further unless surplus countries, notably West Germany,try harder to stimulate their economies as pledged in theaccord, foreign exchange dealers said.    But the market on reflection also noted Baker's additionalstatement that "the Louvre agreement is still operative," andthis caused some dollar short-covering in Tokyo today, thedealers said.    Uncertainty, however, remained the flavour of the day inTokyo currency markets.    The Japanese monetary officials said Baker's undisguisedpressure on West Germany to refrain from guiding interest rateshigher may be part of a process of multilateral surveillance,or international economic policy coordination.    The G-7, comprising the U.S., Japan, West Germany, Britain,France, Italy and Canada, have agreed to monitor each other'seconomic policies and from time to time apply "peer pressure" topersuade others to change their policies to a desired course,they noted. "Without such a basic agreement of multilateralsurveillance, Baker would never have criticized the West Germanpolicy so openly," the ministry official said.    The U.S.-West German squabble over Bonn's monetary policyshould thus be regarded as a process of healthy policycoordination and not as any indication of a possible collapseof the Louvre agreement, the official said.    He also said Japan has not received any specific requestfrom the U.S. On its monetary policy, although its short-termmoney rates have been edging higher.    "This is because we, unlike the Germans, are not takingpolicy to guide interest rates higher, and the marginal raterise in recent days is primarily for seasonal reasons," headded. REUTER
ECONOMIST URGES MORE TAXES TO LOWER N.Z. DOLLAR An income tax surcharge and capitalgains tax could bring about an urgently needed depreciation ofthe N.Z. Dollar, independent economist Len Bayliss said.    Bayliss, a former economist with the Reserve Bank and theBank of New Zealand, said a major depreciation is needed torestore export competitiveness even if inflation is cut bycurrent government policies.    The taxes would help cut the budget deficit, which in turnwould lower the value of the N.Z. Dollar, he said in a speech.He added that the deficit for the year ending March 1988 couldbe much higher than the government's 1.3 billion dlr forecast.    Since the government was unlikely to cut expenditure as apercentage of gross domestic product, a major tax increase wasprobably unavoidable, Bayliss said.    He would have preferred an increase in the 10 pctvalue-added goods and services tax, introduced in October 1986,but that would have had a short-term inflationary impact.Import tariffs should be lowered to minimise the inflationaryimpact of a currency depreciation.    The government had failed to bring inflation down despitelower oil prices and an appreciation in the currency, he added.    New Zealand's inflation rate was 16.9 pct in the year toend-September against 18.9 pct in the year to end June.    The major deficiency in the government's anti-inflationpolicies was reliance on high interest and exchange rates andinsufficient emphasis on reducing the budget deficit, Baylisssaid. The government had also failed to reduce overseas debtand debt ratios and cut the balance of payments deficit.    "The widespread belief that (New Zealand's) problems aregoing to take much longer to solve than was originally thoughtis soundly based -- primarily because the government'smacro-economic policies have been unsuccessful," Bayliss said. REUTER
TOKYO DEALERS SEE DOLLAR POISED TO BREACH 140 YEN Tokyo's foreign exchange market is watchingnervously to see if the U.S. Dollar will drop below thesignificant 140.00 yen level, dealers said.    "The 140 yen level is key for the dollar because it isconsidered to be the lower end of the reference range. If thecurrency breaks through this level, it may decline sharply,"said Hirozumi Tanaka, assistant general manager at Dai-ichiKangyo Bank Ltd's international treasury division.    The dollar was at 141.10 yen at midday against Fridaycloses of 142.35/45 in New York and 141.35 here.    The dollar opened at 140.95 yen and fell to a low of140.40. It was 1.7733/38 marks against 1.7975/85 in New Yorkand 1.8008/13 here on Friday, after an opening 1.7700/10.    The currency's decline was due to remarks on Sunday by U.S.Treasury Secretary James Baker, dealers said.    "The dollar fell over the weekend on increased bearishsentiment after Baker's comments," said Dai-ichi's Tanaka. Hesaid this stemmed from mounting concern that cooperation amongthe group of seven (G-7) industrial nations to implement theLouvre accord to stabilise currencies might be fraying.    The dollar's fall was also prompted by a record one-daydrop in the Dow Jones industrial average on Friday and weaknessin U.S. Bond prices, dealers said.    Baker said the Louvre accord was still operative but hestrongly criticised West German moves to raise key interestrates. Operators took Baker's comment to indicate impatiencewith some G-7 members for failing to stick to the Louvre accorddue to their fears of increasing inflation.    Rises in interest rates aimed at dampening inflationarypressures also slow domestic demand.    West Germany and Japan had both pledged at G-7 meetings toboost domestic demand to help narrow the huge U.S. Tradedeficit, Tanaka said.    U.S. August trade data showed the U.S. Deficit at a stillmassive 15.68 billion dlrs. But if West Germany raises interestrates, this would run counter to the pledge, he said.    "Operators are now waiting to see if the G-7 nationscoordinate dollar buying intervention," said Soichi Hirabayashi,deputy general manager of Fuju Bank Ltd's foreign exchangedepartment.    The target range set by the Louvre accord is generallyconsidered to be 140.00 to 160.00 yen, dealers said.    "The market is likely to try the 140 yen level in the nearfuture and at that time, if operators see the G-7 nationsfailing to coordinate intervention, they would see the Louvreaccord as abandoned and push the dollar down aggressively,"Hirabayashi said. He said the U.S. Currency could fall as lowas 135 yen soon. REUTER
