LNG IMPORTS FROM ALGERIA UNLIKELY IN 1987 Liquefied natural gas imports fromAlgeria are unlikely to happen in 1987 even though itseconomically feasible, U.S. industry analysts sources said.    Youcef Yousfi, director-general of Sonatrach, the Algerianstate petroleum agency, indicated in a television interview inAlgiers that such imports would be made this year.    "Contract negotiations, filing with the U.S. government andthe time required to restart mothballed terminals will delaythe import until 1988/1989," Daniel Tulis, a natural gasanalyst with Shearson Lehman Bros. said.    Sonatrach is currently negotiating with two of its formercustomers, Panhandle Eastern <PEL> and Distrigas, a subsidiaryof Cabot Corp <CBT> to resume LNG export, company officialstold Reuters. A third, El Paso Gas, a subsidiary of BurlingtonNorthern <BNI>, has expressed no interest.    Industry analysts said some imports of Algerian LNG werefeasible. "On a marginal cost basis, the companies that havemade capital investment to handle LNG import can operateprofitably even in the current price environment,"  FrankSpadine, an energy economist with Bankers Trust, said.   Analysts did not forsee a major impact from Algerian importson U.S. prices which are currently soft but expected to trendhigher by the end of 1987.    A decline in gas drilling and the time lag to bring Gulf ofMexico productions onstream will tighten gas supplies and firmprices, Shearson's Tulis said.   In this context, Algerian LNG import would be a source ofsupplemental supply to U.S. domestic production, he added.    Company sources currently in talks with Algeria agree,saying that Algerian LNG would only serve to meet peak demand.    Company sources also said that any negotiations withAlgeria would emphasize looser arrangements which would relatevolumes to market requirements and prices to U.S. spot marketvalues. Reuter
PANHANDLE'S <PEL> TRUNKLINE REDUCES GAS RATES Panhandle Eastern Corp's Trunkline GasCo pipeline subsidiary said it is reducing the commoditycomponent of its wholesale natural gas rate four pct, effectiveimmediately.    In a filing with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission,Trunkline said, it is reducing its commodity rate -- theportion of the total rate based on the price of gas -- to 2.58dlrs per mln Btu from 2.69 dlrs per mln Btu.    The company said the lower rate results from a reduction inthe average price the pipeline is paying for gas, adding thisreflects contract reformation agreemats with producers. Reuter
ARGENTINE OIL PRODUCTION DOWN IN JANUARY 1987 Argentine crude oil production wasdown 10.8 pct in January 1987 to 12.32 mln barrels, from 13.81mln barrels in January 1986, Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscalessaid.    January 1987 natural gas output totalled 1.15 billion cubicmetrers, 3.6 pct higher than 1.11 billion cubic metres producedin January 1986, Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales added. Reuter
STANDARD OIL <SRD> IN TEXAS NATURAL GAS FIND Standard Oil Co said the FriendswoodDevelopment Number One well in the Fostoria or Deep WilcoxField of Montgomery County, Texas, flowed 4,500,000 cubic feetof natural gas per day from depths of 14,252 to 14,486 feetthrough a 14/64 inch choke.    It said it has contracted for Perry Gas Cos Inc to purchasenatural gas from the well, and Perry will build a four-inchgathering pipeline to connect to Natural Gas Pipeline Co'stransmission line. Reuter
STERLING IN TEXAS GAS AND OIL DISCOVERY <Sterling Investment Group>said it successfully drilled and completed a significantdevelopment well 65 miles southwest of Houston, Texas.    The well has a choke of 11/64 of an inch and is 10,097 feetdeep.    The well initially tested at a maximum daily flow rate oftwo mln cubic feet of gas and 304 barrels of condensate.    Participants in the new well, along with Sterling, areTrafalgar House Ltd of the U.K. and <Texstar NOrth America Inc.> Reuter
RESOURCE EXPLORATION <REXI> IN DRILLING PACT Resource Exploration Inc said it hasagreed to let <Langasco Energy Corp> drill 50 oil andnatural gas wells on its Clinton Sandstone formation within itsTuscarawas and Harrison County, Ohio area of operation.    Resource said it would receive a cash payment and anoverriding royalty interest on oil and gas production fromwells drilled on the property.    Resource said gas produced from the property will betransported through its existing pipeline. Also, Resource saidit will provide service work to complete the wells and it willoperate the wells after they are completed. Reuter
ORBIT INCREASES OIL AND GAS RESERVE VALUES <Orbit Oil and Gas Ltd> saidthe value of its oil and gas reserves increased by 19 pct to52.6 mln dlrs from 44.2 mln dlrs reported at year-end 1985,according to an independent appraisal.    Orbit said it has reserves of 2.4 mln barrels of oil andnatural gas liquids and 67.2 billion cubic feet of natural gas.    In addition, 75 pct owned <Sienna Resources Ltd> hasCanadian reserves of 173,000 barrels of oil and 1.6 bcf ofnatural gas with a current value of 2.2 mln dlrs, Orbit said. Reuter
ENDEVCO <EI> AGREES TO BUY MISSISSIPPI PIPELINE Endevco Inc said it has agreed to acquirea 17.5-mile, 16-inch pipeline in Marion and Pearl RiverCounties, Mississippi, for undisclosed terms.    The company said the pipeline was recently constructed fromthe Poplarville gas field in Pearl River County to a proposedinterconnect with a pipeline operated by Occidental PetroleumCorp's <OXY> United Gas Pipe Line Co subsidiary in MarionCounty but has nmot been placed in service.    Endevco said it plans to extend its existing MississippiFuel Co System in southern Mississippi 18 miles to the newpipeline. Reuter
FERC ISSUES TAKE-OR-PAY GAS POLICY PLAN The Federal Energy RegulatoryCommission (FERC) issued a proposed policy statement for the recovery of take-or-pay costs imposed by existing natural gascontracts between producers and pipelines.    It put out the statement, by 5-0 vote, for a 30-day commentperiod. It also put out an alternative policy statement byCommissioner Charles Stalon.    FERC said in a press release that "the proposed policystatement estblishes an exception to the commission's generalpolicy that take-or-pay buy-out and buy-down costs must berecovered through pipeline' commodity sales rates."    FERC added that "specifically, in cases where pipelinesassume an equitable share of buy-out or buy-down costs, thecommission proposes to permit the pipelines to recover theremaining costs through their demand rates."    It said it wanted guidelines for buying out and reformingexisting contracts to help spread the impact of thesetake-or-pay costs in a responsible, fair and equitable way.    Commission chairwoman Martha Hesse said "this proposalrepresents the commission's sincere attempt to help theindustry through this difficult period of transition to a morecompetitive market."    Hesse said "it is my hope that our proposed policy willencourage and guide the timely resolution of take-or-paycontractual disputes that have impeded the industry'stransition to a more competitive environment.  It is vital tothe industry that we get this problem behind us." reuter
FAVORED TRADE STATUS FOR MOSCOW STILL OPPOSED The Reagan administration wants toencourage expanded trade with the Soviet Union but does notbelieve Moscow yet warrants most-favored-nation treatment,Deputy Secretary of State John Whitehead said.    "It seems to me that more trade between us is better thanless trade," he told a forum on U.S.-Soviet trade relations.    To that end, the administration in January allowed foreignpolicy controls on the export of oil and gas equipment to theSoviet Union to lapse, he said.    Also, Washington and its allies are reviewing remainingexport controls in hopes of simplifying the list of prohibiteditems and speeding up the licensing process, he said.    Whitehead said, however, the prefential treatment thatcomes with most-favored-nation status is out for the moment.    U.S. law prohibits most-favored-nation status for countriesthat restrict emigration and other rights.    "What we have seen so far (in improved rights under SovietLeader Mikhail Gorbachev) are promising trends," he said.    But, he added: "We don't know if they will continue, wedon't know how significant they will be." Reuter
SOUTH AFRICAN FIRM TO CONTINUE TESTS South Africa's state-owned energyfirm Soekor said it would continue tests after striking oilsome 120 kms (75 miles) south-southwest of Mossel Bay.    During production tests, about 5,000 barrels of oil andfive mln cubic feet of gas per day were produced, it said.    "This oil discovery will be followed-up as soon as possibleby further seismic surveys and drilling. Should furtherdrilling and tests in the area yield positive results oilproduction from a floating platform could be considered."    Director General of Mineral and Energy Affairs Louw Albertsannounced the strike earlier but said it was uneconomic. Reuter
U.N. ISSUES REPORT ON NATURAL GAS CLAUSES The U.N. Centre on TransnationalCorporations has issued a report containing guidelines andrecommendations for negotiating natural gas clauses inagreements between transnational petroleum corporations andhost countries.    The U.N. said the report was aimed at promoting petroleumexploration in areas perceived as being gas prone. The 49-pagereport contains an in-depth examination of the problems of gasdevelopoment and looks at different ways in which contractualterms might deal with the risks in gas development associatedwith pricing, marketing and volume. Reuter
API REPORTS SHARP FALL IN DRILLINGS Estimated oil and gas drillingcompletions in the United States dropped by almost 41 per centin 1986 from 1985, the American Petroleum Institute said.    API, an industry group, said that of the 42,387 wellscompleted last year, a total of 19,741 were oil wells, 8,645were natural gas wells and 14,001 were dry holes.    In 1985, a total of 71,539 wells were drilled - 36,834 oilwells, 13,036 gas wells and 21,669 dry holes. reuter
HAMILTON OIL <HAML> SAYS RESERVES RISE Hamilton Oil Corp said reserves at theend of 1986 were 59.8 mln barrels of oil and 905.5 billioncubic feet of natural gas, or 211 mln barrels equivalent, up 10mln equivalent barrels from a year before. Reuter
GRAHAM-MCCORMICK <GOP> SELLS OIL AND GAS STAKE Graham-McCormick Oil and GasPartnership said it completed the sale of interests in twomajor oil and gas fields to <Energy Assets International Corp>for 21 mln dlrs.    The company said it sold about one-half of its 50 pctinterest in the Oak Hill and North Rucias fields, its twolargest producing properties.    It said it used about 20 mln dlrs of the proceeds to prepayprincipal on its senior secured notes. Semi-annual principalpayments on the remaining 40 mln dlrs of notes have beensatisfied until December 1988 as a result, it said.    The company said the note agreements were amended toreflect an easing of some financial covenants, and an increaseof interest to 13.5 pct from 13.0 pct until December 1990.    It said the noteholders exercise price for 1,125,000warrants was also reduced to 50 cts from 1.50 dlrs.    The company said Energy Assets agreed to share the costs ofincreasing production at the Oak Hill field. Reuter
DIAMOND SHAMROCK OFFSHORE <DSP> IN FIND Diamond Shamrock Offshore Partners saidit has started development drilling on West Cameron 178 blockoff Louisiana in the Gulf of Mexico after a significant naturalgas find on the block.    It said the discovery well there encountered 46 feet of netnatural gas pay. No flow tests have been conducted, it said.    Diamond Shamrock Offshore said it has a 46.15 pct interestin the block, Phillips Petroleum Co 28.85 pct and Santa FeEnergy Partners LP <SFP> 25.00 pct. Diamond Shamrock Corp <DIA>owns 80.3 pct of Diamond Shamrock Offshore. Reuter
MITCHELL ENERGY <MND> AGAIN CUTS CAPITAL OUTLAYS Mitchell Energy andDevelopment Corp said it plans to hold its capital spending infiscal 1988, ending January 31, to 96 mln dlrs, down from the123 mln dlrs spent in 1987 and 213 mln dlrs in 1986.    The company also said its natural gas revenues so far thisyear have been reduced by lower contract customer purchases dueto mild weather and soft economic conditions.    "But the contracts call for the lower 'takes' to be made upduring the course of the year," Mitchell Energy said. Meanwhileit will sell additional quantities of gas on the spot market.    Mitchell Energy said the additional spot sales will tend tolower the average price realized for gas in the early part offiscal 1988.    However, it said the average for the full year is notexpected to be significantly lower than the 2.99 dlrs perthousand cubic feet averaged in fiscal 1987.                       Reuter
ENERGY/FOREIGN INVESTORS Lured by the weakening dollar and theconviction that oil prices are poised for a rebound, Europeanenergy companies are buying up cheap U.S. oil and gas reservesto replenish their supplies, oil industry analysts said.    They said owning oil reserves in a politically stableUnited States is good insurance against future shortages.However, the quick pace of foreign investment has heated upcompetition among European firms, well-heeled U.S.institutional investors and major oil companies to snare choicedomestic oil properties.    Strevig and Associates, a Houston firm that tracks oil andgas reserve sales, said growing interest among foreign buyershad helped push reserve prices in recent months higher. Allbuyers of U.S. reserves paid a median price of 6.45 dlrs abarrel of oil during the fourth quarter of 1986 foracquisitions, up from 5.33 dlrs in the third quarter and fivedlrs in the second quarter, according to the firm's research.    "Foreign investors have been here nibbling a long time, butwe're seeing new names and smaller companies coming in," saidArthur Smith, an oil property appraisal specialist andpresident of John S. Herold Inc in Greenwich, Conn.    "Europeans, especially, do not have much indigenous oil andgas and realize the tide will eventually turn in favor of theOrganization of Petroleum Exporting Countries," he added.    Smith and other oil industry analyst and economists believethe trend in foreign investments will continue in 1987 becauseof the fall in value of the U.S. dollar, the perception thatoil prices have hit bottom and the fact that it is cheaper tobuy new reserves than to explore for them.    Plenty of properties are available on the market, thanks tothe need of many companies to raise cash for debt payments andgeneral restructuring throughout the oilpatch.    In two of the biggest transactions of recent months,French-owned Minatome Corp., a unit of <Total CompagnieFrancaise des Petroles>, spent more than 230 mln dlrs toseparately acquire oil assets of Texas International <TEICC>and Lear Petroleum Partners <LPP>. A spokesman for Minatomesaid the company is searching for additional acquisitions.    A partnership of two Belgian-owned firms, <Petrofina S.A.>and <Cometra Oil S.A.> paid 150 mln dlrs late last year to buyvirtually all the exploration assets of the Williams Cos <WMB>,the Oklahoma pipeline firm.    But Japanese investors prefer entering into joint ventureswith experienced U.S. companies to explore for new oil. Japan's<Nippon Oil> is a partner of Texaco Inc's <TX> Texaco USA in a100 mln dlrs U.S. drilling program, and has joined withDupont's <DD> Conoco Inc in a similar 135 dlrs mln deal.    Most buyers said the pay-back period of a property, itsgeographic location and the lifting cost of the crude oil aremore important factors in evaluating potential acquisitionsthan relying on a simple price-per-barrel formula.    Rich Hodges, a Houston-based land manager representingInternational Oil and Gas Corp, a partnership of <PreussagCorp> and <C. Deilmann Inc> of West Germany, said the firm hadearmarked at least 50 mln dlrs to spend on oil reserves inTexas, Oklahoma or Louisiana in the coming months.    But he called that a small amount compared to the amountother investors have for acquisitions. PaineWebber's GeodyneEnergy Income Fund, for example, has said it plans to spend upto 300 mln dlrs on oil and gas properties.    "The competition is stiff, not only from other foreigninvestors but from the brokerage houses and U.S. oilcompanies," he said. "Our company is shopping around because wefeel it's substantially less risky than pure exploration. Ifyou're going to take the risk inherent in exploration, you needprices higher than the current market," he added.    In addition to the foreign investors and U.S. brokeragehouses, analysts said many of the major oil companies were alsocompeting for prime properties.    Houston-based Shell Oil Co, a unit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group<RD>, has been one of the most active companies in buying andselling reserves, Smith said. Since 1982, Shell has acquiredtwo billion dlrs in new reserves, including 470 mln barrels ofoil equivalent at a net cost of 2.80 dlrs a barrel, he said.    "Buying reserves is a good strategy for most of thesecompanies," Smith said. "Domestic production has dropped by onemln barrels a day because of cutbacks in drilling and it maydrop by another one mln barrels a day in 1988." Reuter
USX <X> PROVED OIL, GAS RESERVES FALL IN 1986 USX Corp said proved reserves of oiland natural gas liquids fell 28 pct to 802.8 mln barrels at theend of 1986 from 1.12 billion barrels at year-end 1985.    The figures, in USX's just-released 1986 annual report,indicate much of the drop resulted from the exclusion of 293.7mln barrels of Libyan reserves, after the U.S. government lastJune directed U.S. oil companies to end Libyan operations.    USX, which owns Marathon Oil Co and Texas Oil and Gas Corp,had 60 pct of its 1986 sales of 14.94 billion dlrs from its oiland gas operations.    About 24 pct of total sales came from USX's USS steel unitand 16 pct from diversified businesses, which include oilfieldservices, raw materials, minerals, chemicals and real estate.    According to the report, domestic liquids reserves fellslightly to 628.5 mln barrels from 628.9 mln and foreignreserves fell to 174.3 mln from 486.4 mln barrels. The largedrop in foreign reserves was in the Middle East and Africa,where they fell to about 9.3 mln barrels from 316.7 mln,reflecting the exclusion of Libya.    Total natural gas reserves fell to 4.82 trillion cubic feetat year-end 1986 from 5.18 trillion at the end of 1985.    Again, most of the drop came from the Middle East andAfrica, where reserves fell to zero from 71.9 billion cubicfeet, excluding Libyan reserves.    U.S. natural gas reserves fell to 3.44 trillion cubic feetfrom 3.65 trillion and foreign reserves fell to 1.38 trillionfrom 1.53 trillion.    In other areas, USX said total capital spending fell to 962mln dlrs in 1986 from 1.78 billion dlrs in 1985. The 1986audited figure is eight mln dlrs higher than the unauditedfigure the company reported on Jan 27.    USX also said it expects to record a gain of 150 mln dlrsin 1988, representing 50 pct of previously existing investmenttax credits allowable under the new tax law. The loss of theother half of the credits was reflected in the fourth quarter.    In a discussion of steel results, USX said plants that wereshut down last month and some previously idled plants may bepermanently closed. USX took a fourth quarter charge of 1.03billion dlrs to restructure its steel operations. The chargeincluded the "indefinite idling" last month of four plants inUtah, Pennsylvania and Texas.    Other plants or parts of plants in Pennsylvania, Indiana,Alabama, Ohio and Chicago had been previously idled.    "These operations are not permanently shut down. Improvedmarket conditions for the products from these plants may makeit feasible to reopen some of them," USX said in the report.    "On the other hand, a lack of any future market improvementmay necessitate their permanent closing," it added. Reuter
DUNE RESOURCES <DNLAF> RESERVES ROSE IN 1986 Dune Resources Ltd said its oilreserves increased 225 pct during 1986 while its natural gasreserves were up six pct.    The company said its proven oil reserves were estimated at605,682 barrels on December 31, up from 186,655 barrels a yearearlier boosted by discoveries during the year put at 423,659barrels.    It said gas reserves rose to 8.8 mln cubic feet from 8.3mln on Dec 31, 1985, as discoveries of nearly 1.3 mln cubicfeet were partialy offset by production of 287,391 cubic feetand downward revisions of previous estimates totaling 491,694cubic feet. Reuter
PHILLIPS <P> TO EMPHASIZE CASH FLOW TO PARE DEBT Phillips Petroleum Co will emphasizeimproving its short-term cash flow this year to pare its debt,C.J. "Pete" Silas, chairman, told Reuters in an interview.    "Our priority is to get cash flow increased from the assetsalready installed," he said, but he declined to estimate annualcash flow for 1987.    Analysts estimate Phillips" cash flow at over one billiondlrs for 1987, while long term debt, which resulted fromrestructuring to find off corporate raiders in 1985, hoversabout 5.9 billion dlrs as of December 1986.     Silas said Phillips hope to achieve its goal by raisingthe capital expenditures budget to develop its oil and gasproperties.    "We plan to develop the properties with short-term high cashflow prospects," he said. He projected a capital expenditurebudget of 730 mln dlrs, up from the 1986 expenditure of 655 mlndlrs.    Nearly half of that will be spent on exploration andproduction, and most of that will be spend overseas, Silassaid.    "Phillips' top priority in 1987 will be to get thewaterflooding in Norway and jack up the (Ekofisk) oil fields toimprove our ability to extract oil and increase earnings," Silassaid.     Phillips estimates that the project, which is expected tocost 1.5 billion dlrs, will increase recovery by 170 mln grossbarrels of oil over a period of 24 years.    Phillips is also pursue opportunities in China where Silassaid he was seeking "a modification of terms with the Chinesegovernment to make oil discoveries (in the offshore Xijangfields) commercially viable."    In the U.S. Silas said Phillips hopes to get the PointArguello, Calif., field started up by the fourth quarter. "Weexpect to start up the first platform then," Silas said.    But emphasis on short-term cash flow has also forced thecompany to part with several oil and gas assets.    Phillips sold its interests in the T-Block in the U.K.North Sea and U.S. reserves totaling about 1.3 billion dlrs in1986 as part of a two billion dlrs asset sales program that isnow completed, Silas said.     "We sold high cost producing assets. They were not goodvalue for us but possibly so for someone else," Silas said.    Silas said the 1986 assets sales will not affect earningsfor the company.    "Everything we are doing is to manage our cash flow and weare using that to manage our debt. Even the asset sales, whileregrettable, were necessary to reduce debt," Silas said.    He said no asset sales are planned this year as long as oilprices don't fall sharply lower and stay at lower levels  forseveral months. "Then, everyone would be looking at sales (ofassets), and we're no different from the others," Silas said.    In other areas, Silas looks for improved earnings fromPhillips chemical operations, which provided 299 mln dlrs inearnings for 1986, up from 219 mln dlrs in 1985.    "This was our second best year pushed by a good supply anddemand balance for products, low feedstocks and energy costsfor our operations," Silas said, "In 1987 we think the market'ssupply and demand balance will be just as good but feedstockand energy costs will rise due to price recovery." Reuter
PERMIAN BASIN <PBT> PROVEN RESERVES FALL Permian Basin Royalty Trustsaid that as of December 31, 1986, its estimated provedreserves totaled 18.5 mln barrels of oil and 52.9 mln MCF, orthousand cubic feet, of gas.    This compares with yearend 1985 proved reserves estimatesof 26.4 mln barrels of oil and 78.6 mln MCF of gas, Permiansaid.    Permian said December 1986 future net revenues from provedreserves were 335.6 mln dlrs, down from 814.2 mln dlrs in 1985.    Permian said the present value of estimated future netrevenues discounted at 10 pct is 165.3 mln dlrs, compared with374.3 mln dlrs.    It said the downward revisions in both proved reserves andestimated future net revenues resulted from decreased prices foroil and gas. Reuter
SAN JUAN BASIN <SJT> PROVEN RESERVES FALL The San Juan Basin RoyaltyTrust said proved reserves as of December 31 were estimated at283.1 thousand cubic feet of gas and 1,087,000 barrels of oil.    In the year-ago period, it said proved reserves wereestimated at 346.4 thousand cubic feet of gas  and 1,974,000barrels of oil.    It said the present value of future net revenues discounted10 pct was 156.2 mln dlrs compared with 446.8 mln dlrs in theyear-ago period.    It also said that about 60 net infill wells are noteconomical to drill at December 31 prices. Reuter
U.S. PRODUCER ENERGY PRICES RISE IN FEBRUARY Prices of wholesale finished energygoods in the U.S. rose 4.0 pct in February after a 9.8 pct risein January, the Labor Department said.    The Producer Price Index for finished energy goods fell by20.9 pct in the past 12 months.    Heating oil prices rose 3.0 pct in February after a 18.0pct rise in January, the department said.    Gasoline prices rose by 5.5 pct last month after a 15.7pct January rise, the department said. Natural gas prices rose1.8 pct after a 4.2 pct rise in January.    Crude oil prices rose 4.4 pct in February, after a 19.7 pctJanuary rise and were off 21.3 pct from the year ago level. Reuter
U.S. PRODUCER ENERGY PRICES RISE IN FEBRUARY Prices of wholesale finished energygoods in the United States were up in February, rising by 4.0pct after a 9.8 pct rise in January, the Labor Department said.    The Producer Price Index for finished energy goods hasfallen 20.9 pct in the past 12 months.    Heating oil prices rose 3.0 pct in February after a 18.0pct rise in January, the department said.    Gasoline prices rose by 5.5 pct last month after a 15.7pct January rise, the department said. Natural gas prices rose1.8 pct after a 4.2 pct rise in January.    Energy goods at the intermediate stage of processing rose2.7 pct in February after rising 3.5 pct in January and weredown 16.1 pct over the past 12 months, the Labor Departmentsaid.    Prices for crude energy goods, such as crude oil, coal andgas at the wellhead, rose 2.6 pct last month after a 10.0 pctJanuary rise. They were down 11.6 pct from February 1986, thedepartment said.     At the intermediate stage, liquefied petroleum gas pricesrose 10.1 pct last month after a 5.0 pct January rise and were41.0 pct below prices a year earlier, the department said.    Residual fuel prices rose 16.7 pct in February after a 13.4pct rise a month earlier and were off 17.4 pct in 12 months.    Electric power prices fell 0.3 pct last month, after a 1.3pct January decline, and were down 3.6 pct from a year ago.    Crude oil prices rose 4.4 pct in February, after a 19.7 pctJanuary rise and were off 21.3 pct from the year ago level.    Prices of natural gas at the wellhead rose 1.8 pct inFebruary after rising 4.2 pct a month earlier and were 14.8 pctlower than they were 12 months earlier, the department said.    Coal costs were down 0.3 pct last month after rising 0.4pct in January and were down 0.8 pct from a year ago. Reuter
COASTAL <CGP> SEEKS TO HALT BILLION DLR LAWSUIT Coastal Corp said a federal bankruptcycourt will hear its request today for a restraining order tostop a two billion dlr lawsuit against it by <TransAmericanNatural Gas Corp>.    TransAmerican, which entered Chapter 11 bankruptcyproceedings in 1983 to reorganise its debts, filed the lawsuitto block Coastal from taking control.    Coastal spokesman Jim Bailey confirmed the company, whichis an unsecured creditor of TransAmerican, would present itsown reorganisation plan to the bankruptcy court.    Under the plan, Coastal would buy the natural gas reservesand pipeline system owned by TransAmerican in Texas for anundisclosed amount.    TransAmerican lawyer John Nabors said the company valuesits total assets, including an unused oil refinery, at aboutone billion dlrs.    The company, the second-largest natural gas producer inTexas, said it has gas reserves of 1.2 trillion cubic feet andover 1,000 miles of pipeline and gas gathering lines.    About 80 pct of TransAmerican's gas is available for spotmarket sales in Texas during peak demand, it said.    Nabors said the TransAmerican reorganisation would repayits 770 mln dlr debt with profits from natural gas sales. Thelawsuit seeks one billion dlrs in actual damages and onebillion in punitive damages from Coastal.    Coastal has been trying to break into the Texas gas marketsince 1979, when it was forced to sell <Lo-Vaca Gas GatheringCo> to settle over 1.6 billion dlrs in lawsuits by Texascustomers facing abrupt curtailment of supply.    Coastal, a natural gas producer and pipeline company,earned 71.6 mln dlrs on sales of 6.7 billion in 1986, abouthalf the its 1985 profits, due to slumping energy prices. REUTER
COASTAL <CGP> SAYS TRANSAMERICAN SUIT FRIVOLOUS Coastal Corp said it belives the twobillion dlr suit against it by <TransAmerican Natural Gas Corp>in Texas state court is frivolous and without merit.    The company said it intends toi proceed with filing areorganization plan for TransAmerican with the U.S. BankruptcyCourt in Houston.    Yesterday afternoon, the bankruptcy court issued atemporary restraining order prohibiting TransAmerican andCoastal from taking any action in any court that wouldinterfere with the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court.    Yesterday's bankruptcy court ruling affirmed Coastal'srights as a TransAmerican creditor to file a reorganizationplan for TransAmerican.    TransAmerican's suit alleges that Coastla attempted tounlawfully gain control of TransAmerican's Texas natural gasreserves and pipeline system.    TransAmerican's bankruptcy proceedings began in 1983. Reuter
U.S ENERGY SECRETARY PROPOSES OIL TAX INCENTIVES Energy Secretary John Herringtonsaid he will propose tax incentives to increase domestic oiland natural gas exploration and production to the ReaganAdministration for consideration.    "These options boost production, while avoiding the hugecosts associated with proposals like an oil import fee,"Herrington told a House Energy subcommittee hearing. "It is myintention to submit these proposals to the domestic policycouncil and the cabinet for consideration and review."    He said proposals, including an increase in the oildepletion allowance and repeal of the windfall profits tax,should be revenue neutral and promote domestic production atthe least cost to the economy and the taxpayers.    "The goal of the Administration policies is to increasedomestic production. I would like to shoot for one mln barrelsa year."    The proposals were based on a DOE study released yesterdaywarning the United States was threatened by a growingdependence on oil imports.    "We project free world dependence on Persian Gulf oil at 65pct by 1995," Herrington said.    He said it was too soon to say what the Administrationpolicy on oil tax incentives would be and indicated there wouldbe opposition to tax changes.    "Of course, to move forward with these kinds of optionswould require reopening tax issues settled last year (in thetax reform bill) -- an approach which has not, in general, beenfavored by the administration. I think what we need is todebate this within the Administration," he said.    He said the proposals might raise gasoline prices.    Herrington did not specifically confirm a report in today'sWashington Post that he had written to President Reagan urgingan increase in the oil depletion allowance.    Asked about the report by subcommittee members, Herringtonsaid various proposals were under consideration and would bedebated within the Administration to determine which would havethe most benefits at the least cost. Reuter
AMOCO SAID WELL OFF TRINIDAD FLOWS 53 MLN CUBIC FEET NATURAL G Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc said itfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission aregistration statement covering 500 mln dlrs of debt.    The company said it plans to sell 250 mln dlrs of notes due1997 and an equal amount of debentures due 2017.    Proceeds will be used to refinance outstandingindebtedness, Coca-Cola Enterprises said.    The company named Allen and Co Inc as lead manager andMerrill Lynch Capital Markets and Salomon Brothers Inc asco-managers of the offerings. Reuter
ENERGY/DRILLING INDUSTRY The drastic cutbacks in U.S. drillinglast year are rapidly deflating the United State's natural gasbubble, which could bring spot shortages in gas supplies nextwinter and a modest recovery in the oilpatch, industry analystssaid.    Faltering deliverability of natural gas, a commodity thatis difficult and costly to import in large quantities, couldmore than double the current U.S. rig count to near 2,000 by1990, some analysts said.    The need to lock in future supplies of gas for utilitiesand big industrial customers may also bring a resurgence ofactivity in the Gulf of Mexico's offshore waters where some ofthe nation's largest gas reserves are located.    "We think an upturn in U.S. drilling is imminent," saidJames Crandall, an analyst with Salomon Brothers Inc. "Manycompanies appear to be switching from oil to gas drillingbecause they're betting that the gas market will be back inbalance in a year or two."    The prospect of diminishing gas supplies is welcome newsfor drilling and oilfield service companies that barelysurvived last year's plunge in oil prices from about 30 dlrs abarrel to less than half that. Today's relatively stable oilprices of about 18 dlrs a barrel are not enough to spur areturn to the heady days of 1981 when the U.S. drilling rigcount soared to a record high of more than 4,500 and oilfieldroustabouts commanded premium wages.    The latest weekly Hughes Tool Co <HT> rig count, abarometer of the oil industry's health, showed 761 U.S. rigsactive in what is traditionally the slowest time of the year.    In 1986, the Hughes rig count began the year at 1,915 butdived to a post-World War II low of 663 in July as world oilprices experienced the sharpest decline in recent times.    Ike Kerridge, a Hughes economist, said "In 1986, the UnitedStates replaced only about 40 pct of the gas it used and thatreplacement rate won't be any better this year."    He added, "We don't have the options we do with oil.Imports of gas from Canada are limited by pipeline capacity andimporting liquefied natural gas on ships will not be feasiblein the next 10 years because of the cost."    Only about 6 trillion cubic feet of additional gas reserveswere discovered last year while U.S. consumption approached 16trillion cubic feet, according to industry estimates.    George Gaspar, an oil analyst with Robert W. Baird and Coagreed that the need for gas supplies would set the stage for anew cycle of gradual increases in U.S. drilling.    "We anticipate that natural gas pipelines will need todedicate to their systems new gas reserves for 1989 and 1990supplies. That means new drilling programs must begin no laterthan mid-1988," Gaspar said.    Gasper said he sees a new drilling cycle emerging thatcould last until 1992 and that he expects the average rig countto peak near 2,000 in December of 1989.    Much of the search for new gas reserves is likely to beconducted in the offshore waters of the Gulf of Mexico, wherefederal leases on unexplored areas will revert back to thegovernment unless drilling begins in the next two or threeyears. Some of the industry's biggest companies, such as ExxonCorp <XON>, Mobil Corp MOB, and Union Texas Petroleum havealready indicated plans to increase spending for drilling laterthis year in the Gulf of Mexico, Crandall said.    For example, Conoco Inc, a Dupont <DD> subsidiary, willspend 400 mln dlrs to build the Gulf of Mexico's deepestproduction platform, which will produce 50 mln cubic feet ofgas per day.    But T. Boone Pickens, who has acquired huge Texas andKansas gas reserves for his Mesa Limited Partnership <MLP> inrecent months, is not convinced that the drilling industry ison the verge of a recovery.    Pickens predicts the U.S. rig count will soon drop below600 and will not increase significantly until oil prices do.    "The rigs won't go back to work until the price of oil getsabove 30 dlrs a barrel," said Pickens, 58, adding he did notexpect to see the rig count top 2,000 again in his lifetime.    Tenneco Inc <TGT>, one of the largest U.S. gas producers,is skeptical that a need for additional gas drilling exists.    Tenneco vice president Joe Foster said he did not expectsignificant increases in drilling for gas until the early 1990swhen the U.S. gas reserves life will have declined to aboutseven years' supply. Current spot market prices of about 1.50dlrs per thousand cubic feet will need to rise to about threedlrs to spur reserve replacement, he said. Reuter
AMOCO <AN> IN NATURAL GAS FIND OFF TRINIDAD Amoco Corp said its WEQB-1 exploratorywell 39 miles east of Galeota Point on Trinidad's east coastflowed 24 mln cubic feet of natural gas and 500 barrels ofcondensate daily from one zone and 29 mln cubic feet of naturalgas and 600 barrels of condensate daily from a second.    The company said both flows were through 40/64 inch chokesand from zones between 10,000 and 13,000 feet in depth.  Thewell, in 260 feet of water, was drilled to a total depth of14,629 feet, it said.  It said the discovery was made in sandspreviously untested in the area. Reuter
CONSOLIDATED NATURAL <CNG> FORMS TRADING UNIT Consolidated Natural Gas Co said ithas received Securities and Exchange Commission approval toestablish a wholly-owned natural gas marketing subsidiarycalled CNG Trading Co.    It said the new unit will operate in New York,Pennsylvania, Ohio, West Virginia, Louisiana and Texas andcompete with other markets for delivery of low-cost natural gassupplies.    Consolidated said customers' needs will be met from a widerange of low cost sources, including the spot market,independent producers and brokers, and Consolidated's producingaffiliates - CNG Development Co of Pittsburgh, and CNGProducing Co based in New Orleans. Reuter
U.S. ENERGY INDUSTRY SAID IN BETTER HEALTH The U.S. oil and gas industry is inbetter health than it was a year ago, according to testimonygiven to the Texas Railroad Commission at its annual state ofthe industry hearing today.     The Commission, which regulates the state's oil and gasindustry, heard testimony from a number of high-level companyexecutives reflecting a belief that the recent industrydownturn had bottomed out.     "The attitude expressed here today so far is a great dealmore optimistic (than last year)," Commissioner James E. (Jim)Nugent told Reuters.     "It reflects their (the executives) belief that they areseeing the bottom of the economic cycle," he added, "and withjust a few reasonable breaks this industry can begin to moveagain."     The energy industry was hard hit by the sharp drop in oilprices, which fell from around 30 dlrs a barrel in late 1985 toas low as 10 dlrs in mid-1986. Prices have since steadied toaround 18 dlrs a barrel.     At the same time, a number of company executives testifiedthat the nation's domestic exploration and production segmentwas still hurting and in need of government help.     Production costs are considerably higher in the UnitedStates than in such areas as the Middle East and as prices fellmany domestic producers were forced to shut down theiroperations. Currently, there are only about 760 oil rigsoperating in the United States compared with an average ofnearly 2,000 in 1985.     Citing a study released yesterday by the Department ofEnergy, many said the falling production of domestic oilcoupled with increasing U.S. demand, was leading to a growingdependency on imports, particularly from the politicallyvolatile Middle East.     "In the U.S., 1986 petroleum production responded to lowerprices, increasing about 2.5 pct, or 400,000 barrels per day(bpd)," said J.S. Simon, General Manager of the SupplyDepartment at Exxon Corp <XON>, the nation's largest oilcompany.     At the same time, Simon said "U.S. oil production declinedby 300,000 bpd, the first decline in several years," and "netpetroleum imports were up 25 pct to 5.3 mln bpd."     Noting that while oil prices were expected to remainbetween 13 and 20 dlrs a barrel, depending on OPEC's ability tocontrol production, Simon said demand is expected to remain at1986 levels, leading to "a significant amount of spareworldwide production capacity, in excess of 10 mln bpd."     He said the surplus capacity would lead to continuedvolatility and called for "governmental and regulatory policiesin support of the domestic petroleum industry."     Citing the costs recently imposed by the federalgovernment through the 1986 tax code changes and "Superfund"legislation, Simon called for the repeal of the windfallprofits tax, total decontrol of natural gas and improved accessto federal lands for oil and gas exploration.     Simon did not mention an oil import fee, which many in theindustry have called for as a way of building up the nation'sdomestic operations before imports reach such a level thatnational security might be compromised.     In yesterday's report, the Energy Department said importscould make up 50 pct of U.S. demand by 1995, adding thatPersian Gulf producers will provide as much as 65 pct of thefree world's total oil consumption by that date.     Arguing that "oil is a political tool in every nation onearth," Frank Pitts, chairman of <Pitts Oil Co>, today calledfor a variable oil import fee, among other measures, "beforethe treacherous foothold of the Middle East is irreversible andour national security is compromised."     Royce Wisenbaker, Chairman of Wisenbaker Production Co,agreed, saying that like many federal government programs thatwere set up with good intentions, it would probably turn into a"shambles."     Wisenbaker added that he was optimistic for the future."For those of us who have managed to hold on, the worst isover," he said.     Roger Hemminghaus, President of Diamond Shamrock Refiningand Marketing Co, said he was "enthusiastic about the future,"adding that he expected "an increase in profitability bymidyear." Reuter
NE ELECTRIC SEES HIGHER CONSTRUCTION OUTLAYS New England Electric System <NES>expects its cash construction spending to reach 205 mln dlrsthis year, up from 188 mln dlrs in 1986, the utility said inmaterial distributed at an analysts meeting.    It said spending is expected to advance to 215 mln dlrs in1988 and 220 mln dlrs in 1989.    The utility said these totals exclude spending on NewEngland Hydro-Transmission being built to import electricityfrom Quebec Hydro. New England Electric is the operator of thisventure as well as owning 51 pct of the project.    The venture expects to spend 65 mln dlr this year, 105 mlndlrs next year and 125 mln dlrs in 1989 to build transmissionlines from northern Quebec into New England, the utility said.    New England Electric said internally generated funds willcover all of its power plant construction costs this year and65 pct of the 108 mln dlrs its retail distribution units planto spend in 1987.    The company said it also expects to spend 60 mln dlrs onits oil and gas activities this year, adding internallygenerated funds are expected to provide 85 pct of this total.    New England Electric said it plans to issue 30 mln dlrsworth of pollution control bonds in 1987 and retire additionalhigher cost preferred stock. Its Granite State Electric unitplans to issue five mln dlrs of long term notes early this yearas well.    The company said it does not plan to offer common sharesthis year or in the foreseeable future, but expects to raiseabout 40 mln dlrs in equity through the sale of stock under itsdividend reinvestment plan and employee share plans.    President Samuel Huntington told the analysts theconstruction spending projection is based on the expectationthat demand for electricity in the New England electric systemwill grow about two pct a year for the next 15 years.    However, the utility cannot ignore the potential forsharper growth, he said, pointing out that demand was up 5.2pct in 1986 and 4.7 pct per year in the past four years.    He attributed this growth to declining electricity pricesand a strong New England economy.    Huntington said New England Elecetric has "all but rejectednew coal fired plants" to supply additional power.    He said the most attractive new power supplies are thosewith short lead times which can be built in modules.    Later, vice president Glenn Schleede said the utility islooking at gas-fired, combined cycle generating units to supplymost of its new power needs, but has not rejected coal-firedfluidized bed units.    He explained that fluidized bed technology is available inmodular units, adding that Huntington was referring to thetraditional coal-fired plant which burns pulverized coal. Reuter
MEXICAN HYDROCARBON RESERVES FALL SLIGHTLY IN 1986 mexico's proven reserves of liquidhydrocarbons at end-1986 were 70 billion barrels, slightly downfrom 70.9 billion a year ago and 71.75 billion in 1984, thestate oil company petroleos mexicanos (pemex) announced.    Reserves were just 5.77 billion barrels in 1974, rosesharply to 40.19 billion in 1978 and flattened out at 72billion in both 1981 and 1982.    In its annual report, pemex said average crude output in1986 was 2.43 mln barrels per day, 202,000 bpd down on 1985.Average exports were 1.29 mln bpd, down from 1.44 mln bpd.    The company did not say what percentage of hydrocarbons wascrude oil, but has previouly said it was about 48 pct.    Natural gas output in 1986 was 3.43 billion cubic feet perday, down from 3.6 billion in 1985.    Due mainly to the fall in oil prices to around 12 dlrs from25 dlrs in the year, 58 wells, both exploratory and production,were suspended, 38 of them in less productive areas than theoffshore campeche fields which accounted for 64 pct ofproduction. Reuter
DIVISION SEEN ON HOW TO HELP U.S. OIL INDUSTRY The U.S. Congress and the oil industryare deeply divided on ways the government should assist theindustry, hurt by the sharp fall in oil prices, and thesubsequent growth in oil imports, industry analysts said.    "The industry is deeply divided between those who support anoil tariff and those who believe tax incentives are better,"said Daniel Yergin, director of Cambridge Energy ResearchAssociates, which recently completed a survey of the U.S.Congress on energy issues.    Yergin said he saw mounting support within Congress for taxincentives rather than an oil tariff or import fee.    Today U.S. Energy Secretary John Herington said he willpropose tax incentives to increase edomestic oil and naturalgas exploration and production to the Reagan Administration forconsideration. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said theproposal would be reviewed.    Herrington said, "I would like to shoot for one mln barrelsa day (addition) to U.S. production." U.S. oil output was off to8.4 mln bpd in the week of March 13, down six pct from lastyear, the American Petroleum Institute said.    Oil industry analysts have forecast oil prices to averageabout 18 dlrs a barrel for the year and many believe that amove above that level will be unlikey for the near term.    Paul Mlotok, oil analyst for Salomon Brothers Inc said that"even with the rise in prices for the last week or two we'veonly altered our average price scenerio to about 17.50 dlrs forthe year."    Analysts said that at that price renewed drilling andexploration to reverse the decline in U.S. crude oil outputwill not take place as the companies are waiting for stableprices over 20 dlrs to renew exploration.    John Lichtblau, president of the Petroleum IndustryResearch Foundation Inc in New york in recent testimony toCongress said "The continuing decline in U.S. oil production isvirtually inevitable under any realistic price scenario. Butthe future rate of decline is very much a function of world oilprices and U.S. government policy."    Lichtbalu said that tax breaks could be used to raise oilproduction but would only work over time.    "Lowering the producing industry's tax burden would probablybe a slower stimulant (to output) than a price increase butwould not raise energy costs." Lichtblau said.    But the small independent oil companies who do much of thedrilling in the U.S. are looking for the more immediate reliefwhich could be brought on by an oil import fee.    Ronald Tappmeyer, president of the InternationalAssociation of Drilling Contractors, said, "The members of ourtrade asssociation are convinced that only a variable oilimport fee that sets a minimum price trigger can protect ournation." The association represents some 1,300 drilling and oilservice companies.    The CERA survey of Congress shows that the oil import feewill face a stiff uphill battle.    Yergin said that the poll which was conducted in January bya former Congressman, Orval Hansen, showed support for the oilimport fee from 22 pct of the Congressmen surveyed largely as ameans of protecting the domestic petroleum industry.     At the same time 48 pct of the Congressmen surveyedopposed the fee with the respondents saying the tariff wouldhurt consumers and some regional interests.    But 80 pct of the sample said support for a fee could growif production continued to fall and imports to rise.    Yergin said that imports above 50 pct of U.S. requirements"is a critical, symbolic level. If they (imports) move abovethat level, a fee may not be legislated but there willcertainly be pressure for some form of action."     But Lichtblau, in a telephone interview, said, "a 50 pctrate of import dependency is not likely to happen before 1990.    In 1986 U.S. oil imports rose to 33 pct of u.s. energyrequirements and shopuld be about 34 pct in 1987, he added. Reuter
BRITOIL SEES LOWER U.K. EXPLORATION EXPENDITURE Britoil Plc's <BTOL.L> explorationexpenditure for the U.K. In 1987 was likely to be only about athird of the level in 1986, though overseas expenditure wouldremain approximately the same, Chief executive David Walkersaid.    He told reporters following the release of the company's1986 figures that project expenditure would also remain at 1986levels.    U.K. Project expenditure in 1986 rose to 208 mln stg from184 mln while exploration expenditure dropped to 87 mln from156 mln. Overseas exploration fell to 28 mln from 58 mln in1985.    Earlier, Britoil posted a drop in pretax profit for 1986 to134 mln stg from 759 mln in 1985, before an extraordinarycharge of 50 mln stg on the company's U.S. Assets. The resultswere slightly better than analysts forecast and the sharefirmed to 231p from 222p at last night's close. Chairman SirPhilip Shelbourne said the collapse in the oil price in 1986had made the period extremely difficult but the company hadcome through remarkably well.    Provided the recovery in oil prices was maintained, theconditions would be right for a substantially improvedperformance this year.    He added that the firmness of oil prices in March, whenthey were normally weaker, made him "a bit encouraged" about theprospects for future levels.    Walker added that Britoil would feel confident if the pricestayed within a band of 15 dlrs to 20 dlrs a barrel.    Britoil had received some 100 responses to its announcementof a desire to sell the assets and was asking for bids by thelatter part of April.    End-year reserves rose to 603 mln barrels of oil comparedwith 503 mln previously. However, Walker noted that thisincluded a revised definition of reserves.    If 1985 figures were restated along the same lines, thereserve figure would show a drop from 720 mln barrelspreviously.    Gas reserves also eased to 3,568 billion cubic feet from arestated 3,660 billion.
TRANSCO PARTNERSHIP <TXP> GAS RESERVES RISE Transco Exploration Partners Ltd saidparticipation in 14 new discoveries increased its proved gasreserves to 558.1 billion cubic feet in 1986, up from 541.5billion cubic feet in the previous year.    Proved reserves of liquids remained about the same at 25.1mln barrels, the company said in the 1986 annual just releasedby Transco Energy Co <E>, the majority owner of the TranscoExploration partnership.    Transco said that anticipated oil and gas prices during1987 would continue to exert pressure on the profitability ofmost energy companies.    The Transco pipeline system reached permanent take-or-paysettlements on about half its committed gas deliverability andinterim agreements for another 38 pct of its deliverability,the annual report said. The company said it paid a total ofabout 363 mln dlrs to producers through Februry one out of its550 mln dlr reserve to settle the take-or-pay disputes.    Transco said its gas pipeline delivered more than 1.2trillion cubic feet last year and its marketing affiliate soldan average of 1.6 billion cubic feet of gas per day.    The company's exploration partnership received an averageprice of 1.84 dlrs per mln cubic feet for gas sales during1986, down from 3.04 dlrs in 1985.    Sales of oil and condensate averaged 15.86 dlrs per barrellast year, down from 27.41 dlrs per barrel in 1985. Reuter
NATURAL GAS SEEN RECAPTURING SOME MARKET SHARE Higher crude oil prices will raisedemand for natural gas, helping it to reclaim market share lostto heavy oil when prices plunged in 1986, analysts said.    The analysts said that these efforts will be mostsuccessful in the industrial sectors of the economy with largeand growing energy requirements.    "Natural gas stands a good chance to recapture the share ofoil supplied to electric utilities that it lost to the residualfuel industry last year," Michael Smolinski, an energyeconomist with Data Resources Inc, told Reuters.    An estimated 200,000 barrels per day of residual fuel wentinto the utilities market at the expense of natural gas lastyear when world oil prices plunged, Smolinski said.     Assuming oil prices hold above 15 dlrs a barrel, nationalaverage gas prices delivered to the utilities at a projected2.10 to 2.25 dlrs per mln Btu would be very competitive,Michael German, vice president of economic analysis at AmericanGas Association said.    The average delivered prices at the end of January were2.10 dlrs per mln Btu, compared with 3.26 dlrs a year ago.    "We expect natural gas to regain 250 to 400 billion cubicfeet (of demand) in the overall energy market in the second andthird quarter (1987)," he said.    In addition to price competitiveness, availability will bean important factor persuading energy users to switch to gas,Frank Spadine, senior energy economist with Bankers Trust Corp.in New York noted.    Spadine said the mild winter in many parts of the NorthAmerican continent has led to a build up of gas inventories andless would be necessary to replenish underground storage thisspring freeing gas for spot sales.    These forecasts develop a strong counterpoint to the fearsthat natural gas suplies would be tight and pricessignificantly higher given a sharp decline in drilling lastyear.    AGA's German contended that despite the drilling decline,much of U.S. proved reserves could be brought to productionquickly through developments such as the infill drilling whichpermits more wells to be drilled in proved reserve basins.    Citing recent EIA statistics, German said, the gas surpluswas likely to contract from three trillion cubic feet in 1986to two trillion cubic feet in 1987, but the surplus would notgo away until 1990.    Smolinski of Data Resources agreed that the surplus wouldpersist until 1990. While gas supplies may tighten in certainconsuming areas, notably in California and in the NortheastU.S., an overall shortfall appeared remote. Reuter
SANTOS BIDS FOR OIL AND GAS COMPANY TMOC RESOURCES Cooper Basin oil producer Santos Ltd<STOS.S> said it will bid 4.00 dlrs a share for the 96.03 pctit does not already hold in diversified oil and gas company<TMOC Resources Ltd>.    Santos said the bid values TMOC at 248.5 mln dlrs. It saidit already holds 1.91 mln of TMOC's 25 cent par shares.    TMOC held interests outside the Cooper Basin region ofSouth Australia and Queensland and the acquisition wouldfurther the Santos objective of developing as a broadly basedoil and gas company with interests outside its existing base inthe Cooper Basin, the company said in a statement.    Santos said TMOC holds several important domestic oil andgas production, exploration and pipeline interests.    In the Northern Territory it has a 43.75 pct stake in andoperates the Mereenie oil and gas field in the Amadeus Basinand owns 32 pct of <N.T. Gas Pty Ltd>, owner and operator ofthe Alice Springs to Darwin gas pipeline.    In Queensland, TMOC has extensive interests in the SuratBasin, including the 100 pct owned and operated Moonie oilfield and 33 pct of the Boxleigh gas field.    TMOC owns 80 pct of the <Moonie Pipeline Co Pty Ltd> whichowns and operates the Moonie to Brisbane oil pipeline.    TMOC also holds 25 pct of the Jackson to Moonie oilpipeline, 20 pct owned by Santos. Output from the Naccowlahblock, 40 pct owned by Santos, provides the bulk of thethroughput of both pipelines.    TMOC has exploration interests in a number of areas in theAmadeus, Surat, Eromanga and Canning basins.    It also has oil and gas interests in Britain's North Sea,Ecuador, and the U.S., Along with gold and base metalproduction through its associate <Paringa Mining andExploration Co Plc>, Santos said. REUTER
NEW COOPER BASIN GAS POOL DISCOVERY REPORTED <Delhi Petroleum Pty Ltd> said asecond gas flow has been recorded in the Epsilon formation ofthe Toolachee Block on PEL five and six signifying a new pooldiscovery.    The Kerna Four appraisal well flowed gas at 235,038 cubicmeters a day with four kiloliters of condensate through a 13mmsurface choke over an interval of 2,374 to 2,399 meters.    DST 1, in the Epsilon formation, was earlier reported asflowing gas at 237,862 cm/day, Delhi said in a statement.    The well is two km south south east of Kerna 3, 15 km southeast of the Dullingari field and 75 km east of Moomba.    Delhi said the remaining objective of the well is thePatchawarra formation.    Other interest holders in the Kerna Four well are: SantosLtd <STOS.S> 50 pct, Delhi 30, <Vamgas Ltd> 10, <SouthAustralian Oil and Gas Corp Pty Ltd> 10 pct. REUTER
WORLD DEPENDENCY ON MIDEAST OIL SAID INEVITABLE The world's dependency on the Mideastas the source for its petroleum is growing and nothing is goingto stop it, Donald K. McIvor, an Exxon Corp <XON> Director andsenior vice president told Reuters in an interview.    "Non-OPEC production will begin to decline and the gapbetween demand and supply will widen so that the trend toincreasing dependence on OPEC and the Middle East isinevitable," McIvor said.    Decreased supplies will firm prices for crude oil but arenot likely to change a growing dependence, McIvor said.    McIvor, Exxon's senior vice president responsible for oiland gas exploration and production said that dependence wouldresult from the Mideast's large spare capacity at a time whenthe rest of the world consumes more oil than it was finding.    "Since 1970 we've been consuming oil at rates of 20-25billion barrels per year while making new discoveries of onlyabout 10-15 bilion barrels per year," McIvor said.    "The bulk of the inventory and more than half of theremaining proved reserves lies in the middle east which isproducing at much less than current capacity," he added.    McIvor said that of the some 30,000 oil fields discoveredso far only 37 "one-one thousandth of the total number containedabout 35 pct of all the oil ever discovered."    McIvor said, in response to a question, that he did notbelieve there were any more "super giants", or oil fields withreserves greater than five billion barrels, to be found whichwould change the conclusion of the world's growing dependency.    "Of those 37 super giants only 11 lie outside the MiddleEast. Only five of the 37 have been discovered in the past 20years and only two of these lie outside the middle east(Cantarell in Mexico and Alaska's North Slope)." McIvor said.    McIvor said that many of the large fields outside the U.S.like Alaska's Prudhoe Bay and the North Sea were reaching apeak and would soon begin to decline.    But the Exxon executive said that there were still plentyof opportunities to be explored and developed outside of theMiddle east, particulartly in Canada, the North Sea, andAustralia and Africa.    McIvor said that decisions to explore and drill in thoseareas would be depedent upon both the expectations of a higherprice of oil as well as the legal regime affecting thecompanies.    "The ideal regime is a stable one not one where there is aconstant change in policies," McIvor said.    McIvor said he opposed import subsidies or tariffs used toincrease exploration as these only benefit one part of theeconomy at the expense of other parts of the economy.    Asked about the options offered this week by U.S. EnergySecretary Herrington to increase U.S. production McIvor said hecould not comment on subjects like the oil depletion allowancenow but "the thrust of his (Herrington) report is valid. It hashighlighted the growing dependency on the Middle east and theneed to increase U.S. production."    McIvor also said that he expected natural gas to play agreater role in the future in meeting energy needs.    "Natural gas will have the opportunity to become anincreasingly important part of the worlkd's energy supply,"McIvor said.    "Crude oil will be used more and more as a transportationfuel and natural gas will be used more to generate heat, as anindustrial fuel," he added. Reuter
SANTOS SAYS PROFITS HIT BY OIL PRICE FALL Leading Australian onshore oil and gasproducer, Santos Ltd <STOS.S>, said its 1986 results were hitby sharp reductions in prices for crude oil, condensate andliquefied petroleum gas (LPG).    The Cooper Basin producer earlier reported a fall in netprofit to 88.67 mln dlrs from 144.04 mln in 1985.    Santos chairman Sir Brian Massy-Greene said in a statementthat increased production, particularly of oil and LPG, alongwith reduced operating costs and reduced or deferred oilexploration and development outlays, were helping Santos dealwith an adverse business climate.    Santos said it remained financially strong with aninjection of 84 mln dlrs from the second instalment of a 1985rights issue, and had cash reserves of 381.3 mln dlrs at theend of 1986 against 401.9 mln a year earlier.    It said it had also made significant progress in repayingdebts and at year end the ratio of debt to shareholders' fundshad fallen to 1.01 from 1.54.    Santos yesterday announced a 4.00 dlr a share takeover bidfor the 96.93 pct it did not already hold in oil and gascompany <TMOC Resources Ltd> -- valuing the target at 248.5 mlndlrs.    Santos said 75 pct of its loans were U.S. Dollardenominated and significant currency purchases were made duringthe year to maintain that natural hedge. At year end it held145 mln U.S. Dlrs, enough to meet all 1987 repayments.    Santos said it had a successful gas exploration program,finding 172 billion cubic feet in South Australia, but oilexploration was less successful with 1.62 mln barrels added toreserves -- less than depletion during the year.    Cooper Basin producers are committed to a two-year schemeto double gas exploration while Santos said its 1987 budget foroil exploration had been boosted 20 pct.    Santos said the outlook for 1987 depended on prices andproduction volumes but with extra oil exploration andencouraging gas finds there were grounds for optimism.    But it called on the goverment to continue fosteringdomestic producers through the Import Parity Price scheme.    "It makes no sense to abandon this policy now whenexploration is at its lowest level for many years and whenAustralia's oil self-sufficency is expected to decline rapidly,"Massy-Green said. REUTER
U.S. SUPREME COURT ALLOWS OFFSHORE ALASKAN OIL AND GAS EXP Great Lakes Chemical Corpsaid it agreed to make an ingredient to be used by McNeilSpecialty Products Co, a subsidiary of Johnson and Johnson, inthe manufacture of sucralose, a high intensity sweetener.    Sucralose is currently under review by the Food and DrugAdministration.    Great Lakes Chemical and McNeil Specialty will build thefacilities needed for production, it said. Reuter
U.S. COURT ALLOWS OFFSHORE ALASKAN EXPLORATION A unanimous Supreme Court ruled thatoil and gas exploration can proceed on two tracts off theAlaska coast which were leased by the federal government toeight major oil companies.    The ruling was an important victory for the oil companiesand the Reagan administration's controversial off-shore leasingprogram and a setback for two small Alaskan villages thatchallenged the leases by claiming damage to the environment.    The administration said that the court-ordered halt indrilling had created uncertainty over the 4.2 billion dlrs paidfor 621 leases off the shores of Alaska since December 1980.    A federal appeals court ordered the oil companies to haltall exploration and remove all drilling rigs from two tracts inthe Bering Sea off Alaska because of possible harm to thesubsistence needs and culture of native Eskimos.    But the Supreme Court said the appeals court was wrong inissuing an injunction halting exploration.    "Here, injury to subsistence resources from exploration wasnot at all probable," Justice Byron White wrote for the court."And on the other side of the balance of harms was the factthat the oil companies had committed approximately 70 mln dlrsto exploration to be conducted during the summer of 1985 whichthey would have lost without chance of recovery had explorationbeen enjoined," he said.    The oil companies, Amoco Corp <AN>, ARCO, Exxon Corp <XON>,Mobil Corp <MOB>, Sohio, Shell, Texaco Inc <TX> and Union Oil,had said that voiding previously granted leases would result instaggering financial losses.    The first lease sale in 1983 involved 2.4 mln acres andgenerated 318 mln dlrs while the second lease sale in 1984covered 37 mln acres and produced 516 mln dlrs.    Administration officials, saying the lease sales werepreceded by an intense environmental impact study, denied thatthe oil and gas exploration would hurt subsistence resources.    The Alaskan villages of Gambell and Stebbins, along with anorganization of Eskimo natives on the Yukon Delta, argued thatthe drilling would hurt native hunting and fishing. Reuter
LOWER TAX OFFSETS LOWER SHELL U.K. UPSTREAM PROFIT <Shell U.K. Ltd's> pre-tax profit onexploration and production operations fell to 869 mln stg in1986 from 2.12 billion in 1985 due to the fall in oil priceslast year, Shell U.K. Finance director Nigel Haslam said.    But he told a press conference that due to the highmarginal tax rate on North Sea operations, the main impact ofthe drop in profit was absorbed by a fall in taxation to 330mln stg from 1.45 billion in 1985.    The bulk of tax last year was Corporation Tax, withPetroleum Revenue Tax (PRT) representing only 16 mln stg, hesaid.    As a result, post-tax profit from the exploration andproduction sector fell by only 126 mln stg to 539 mln.    Earlier, Shell U.K., a subsidiary of Royal Dutch/ShellGroup <RD.AS>, reported an overall net profit of 757 mln stg,up from 667 mln in 1985, on sales of 6.57 billion stg against8.81 mln.    Shell U.K. Chairman Bob Reid said the company's crude oiloutput from the North Sea was at a record 373,000 bpd in 1986,which would almost certainly prove to be a peak for thecompany. Shell expects a fall in output of around 10 pct in thecurrent year to around 340,000 bpd, due mainly to the declinein output from the major Brent field, he said.    Gas output of 5.9 billion cubic metres and natural gasliquids output of around one mln tonnes in 1986 are expected tobe maintained in 1987, he said.    A final decision on development of the Kittiwake and OspreyNorth Sea oil fields will be made in the next 12 to 18 months,Reid said. The Kittiwake field, originally part of the 2.5billion stg Gannet project abandoned last year when the oilprice fell, is now estimated to cost around 350 mln stg.    Economies on development costs for the Tern and Eider NorthSea fields, which were approved last year, have brought thecost down to 30 to 35 pct below the original budget.    Day to day operating costs of the exploration andproduction sector had been cut 10 pct last year, and the targetis to keep costs per barrel constant.    The company drilled 17 wells offshore, with 10 leading tothe discovery of hydrocarbons, although it is too early togauge the commercial viability of these discoveries, Reid said.    Restructuring of the downstream oil sector contributed to aprofit rise to 187 mln stg in 1986 from 91 mln stg in 1985.    Jaap Klootwijk, managing director of downstream unit <ShellU.K. Oil>, said refining margins in the first quarter of 1987were a "bit better than the very bad fourth quarter 1986."    In November and December in particular, refining operationshad shown negative margins following the fall in crude and oilproduct prices, he said. He expected margins to continuegenerally positive over the summer, although they could dip tobecome negative from time to time, depending on pricemovements.    A new catalytic cracker at Shell's Stanlow refinery willnow come on stream by the end of first quarter 1988, about fivemonths behind schedule, following a crane accident whichseverely damaged the plant last year, he said.    Profits from the chemicals sector rose to 33 mln stg from11 mln after the rationalisation of the Carrington chemicalsite.    Haslam said the Budget announcement on PRT relief, by whichcompanies will be allowed to offset up to 10 pct of qualifyingdevelopment expenditure on certain future oil fields againstPRT, was "helpful," but rather less than had been hoped for.    Reid said his estimate of crude oil prices this year was inthe range of 15 to 18 dlrs. If prices went much above that, hewould expect some over-production above OPEC"s official 15.8 mlnbpd output ceiling which would tend to bring prices back down.    He said it looked as if the December OPEC pact to restrainoutput was holding, bringing supply and demand into balance,but the test will come in summer when demand for OPEC oil willfall. Reuter
TRINTOC, UNION CARBIDE TO BUILD METHANOL PLANT Trinidad and Tobago isfinalizing arrangements with Union Carbide <UK> of the UnitedStates and Snamprogetti of Italy for the construction of a1,500 tonnes per day methanol plant, Energy Minister KelvinRamnath said.    Ramnath said the ministry is now holding talks with UnionCarbide on the price of natural gas to be used in the plant,which will be constructed near the Trinidad and Tobago oilcompany (Trintoc) refinery at Point Fortin on the west coast.    Snamprogetti built the first methanol refinery on trinidadfive years ago.    Trintoc is likely to put up land, refinery plant andmachinery as equity. If negotiations go smoothly, ramnath said,construction could begin by next january.    The government of prime minister A.N.R. Robinson is hopingto lue new investors to the twin-island state's petrochemicalindustry, in order to make use of new findings of natural gas. Reuter
TRANSCONTINENTAL <TGP> FILES NEW OFFER Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corpsaid that it is not willing to accept the Federal EnergyRegulatory Commission's conditioned approval of its proposedoffer of settlement dated May 13.    Transco said it filed a revised settlement proposal whichwould permit it to become an open access transporter whilerestructuring gas sales services.    The new offer includes a gas supply inventory charge tocustomers who fail to buy 60 pct of their annual contractquantities and 35 pct of their summer contract quantities. Reuter
TEXACO <TX> RESERVES DOWN DESPITE LOWER OUTPUT Texaco Inc's oil and gas reservesdeclined in 1986 despite reduced production and upwardrevisions in the company's previous reserve estimates, itsannual report said.    The statement of the report's auditor was qualified -- aswas the previous one -- because of the unkonwn final impact ofthe judgement won by Pennzoil Co <PZL> against Texaco oncharges Texaco interfered with Pannzoil's contract to acquireGetty Oil Co.    The auditor's point out, as Texaco has in the past, thecompany's loss of any of several pending court decisions inthis case could cause it "to face prospects such as having toseek protection of its assets and business pursuant to thebankruptcy and reorganization provisions of Chapter 11" of thefederal bankruptcy code.    Commenting on a Texas Court of Appeals ruling which reducedPennzoil's judgement by two billion dlrs, to 9.1 billion dlrs,Texaco said it will file a motion for a rehearing by theappeals court no later than March 30.    Texaco said the proven crude oil reserves of the companyand its consolidated subsidiaries totaled 2.54 billion barrelsat the end of 1986, down from 2.69 billion a year earlier.    However, inclusion of Texaco's equity in the EasternHemisphere reserves of a nonsubsidiary company limited thedecline to 2.91 billion barrels from 3.00 billion at the end of1985.    Worldwide production by the consolidated subsidiariesdeclined to 341 mln barrels last year from 362 mln in 1985 andupward revisions in previous reserve estimates rose to 143 mlnbarrels from 117 mln, respectively.    Texaco said the largest drop in reserves came in the UnitedStates -- where the total dropped to 1.46 billion barrels from1.55 billion.    The company said U.S. liquids production averaged 660,000barrels per day last year, down from 714,000 in 1985, withabout 44 pct of the decline -- some 24,000 barrels per day --representing high-cost production shut-in or curtailed inresponse to the decline in crude oil prices during 1986.    Texaco said its natural gas reserves totaled 8.16 trillioncubic feet at year end, down from 8.87 trillion cubic feet atthe end of 1985. Reuter
UNOCAL <UCL> PLANS INCREASE IN CAPITAL SPENDING Unocal Corp said it intends toincrease its spending for capital projects to 929 mln dlrs in1987, eight pct more than the 862 mln spent in 1986.    The company said in its annual report that it wouldincrease spending for exploration and development of petroleumresources by about three pct to 614 mln dlrs from 1986's 595mln dlrs, assuming oil prices hold around current levels.    The planned spending for exploration and production in 1987remains well below the 1.1 billion dlrs spent in 1985, Unocalsaid.    The company's proved developed and undeveloped reserves ofcrude oil rose slightly in 1986, Unocal said. Net crude oil andcondensate reserves were 752 mln bbls as of Dec 31, 1986,compared to 751 mln bbls at the end of 1985, Unocal said.    The company said its net crude oil and condensateproduction averaged 248,200 barrels per day in 1986 compared to251,300 bpd in 1985.    Unocal said its worldwide natural gas reserves were 6.07billion cubic feet in 1986 compared to 1985's 6.19 billion. Netnatural gas output averaged 976 mln cubic feet per day in 1986,down 10 pct from 1985's 1,084 mln, the company said.    Unocal said its average sales prices for crude oil was12.67 dlrs a barrel worldwide in 1986 compared to 23.81 dlrs in1985, and its average sales price for natural gas was 2.03 dlrsper thousand cubic feet in 1986 against 2.24 dlrs in 1985.    Average production costs for crude oil and natural gasdeclined nearly 30 pct to 3.41 dlrs per bbl of oil equivalentin 1986 from 4.81 dlrs in 1985, Unocal said.    In the annual report, the company called for imposition ofan oil import fee by the U.S. government to set a floor priceof about 25 dlrs a barrel for crude oil.    "Simply stabilizing prices at about 18 dlrs per barrel    will not materialy slow the drop in U.S. production or the risein imports," Chairman Fred Hartley said in the annual report.    "Without decisive action in Washington, this nation willonce again become a hostage to OPEC's plans and policies,"Hartley said. Reuter
PENNZOIL (PZL) WILLING TO SETTLE TEXACO (TX) LAWSUIT Pennzoil Co said it had not yetreceived any "meaningful settlement offer" from Texaco Inc butadded that the company remained willing to consider proposalsto settle the 10.2 billion dlr jury judgment it won againstTexaco.    In its newly-released annual report to shareholders,Pennzoil said it expected the Texas state court judgment, whichwas upheld by a state appeals court on February 12, to beupheld if appealed again.    "To date, Pennzoil has yet to receive any meaningfulsettlement offer from Texaco, though it remains open to anyrealistic effort to settle the matter," Pennzoil chairman HughLiedtke said in the annual report.    Pennzoil also said it had budgeted 212 mln dlrs for capitalspending in 1987, a drop from the 233 mln dlrs spent last year.    Proved U.S. and foreign reserves of natural gas declined to964 billion cubic feet last year, from 1.01 trillion cubic feetin 1985, because of a virtual halt in its exploration program,Pennzoil said. Its crude oil reserves dropped to 140 mlnbarrels from 158 mln barrels in 1985.     The Houston-based company said it sold an average of 339mln cubic feet of domestic natural gas each day last year, a 17pct drop from 1985. The average sales price for gas dropped by60 cents per mcf to 2.16 dlrs per mcf, Pennzoil said.    U.S. crude oil and gas liquids production last year fell toan average of 33,290 barrels per day from 34,102 barrels perday in 1985.    The company's total revenues in 1986 declined to 482.3 mlndlrs, from 762.5 mln dlrs the previous year. Operating incomein 1986 fell more than 80 pct, to 38.0 mln dlrs.    Pennzoil said its goals for 1987 included development ofits Point Arguello oilfield off the California coast, tomaintain current production levels in its Bluebell-AltamontField in Utah and to drill for prospects in the Gulf ofMexico's Mobile Bay area.    "Production should begin late in the year from the HarvestPlatform in the Santa Maria Basin offshore California," thecompany said. "Pennzoil's share of this production initiallyshould be five thousand barrels a day, increasing to a peak of15 thousand barrels a day, net, by 1989."    In its sulphur business, Pennzoil said production totaled2.1 mln long tons last year, a decline of 18 pct from 1985. Theaverage sales price also declined, to 138.25 dlrs per long tonfrom 141.05 dlrs in 1985.    "The long term outlook for our sulphur operations remainsbright," the company said. "We expect sulphur's pricingstructure to strengthen during the current year, probably inthe third and fourth quarters."             Reuter
STANDARD OIL <SRD> SEES BOOST IN 1987 CASH FLOW Standard Oil Co expects the sale ofassets and federal tax refunds resulting from last year's lossto add about one billion dlrs to its normal cash flows fromoperations in 1987, its annual report said.    Last year, the report noted, the cash flow from operationsdropped to 1.8 billion dlrs from 3.5 billion dlrs in 1985 and3.2 billion dlrs in 1984 due principally to lower oil prices.    The report, prepared before British Petroleum Co Plc <BP>disclosed plans to seek the rest of Standard's stock, put 1987capital spending at 1.6 billion dlrs, down from the 1.7 billiondlrs projected in January.    Standard's capital spending totaled 1.77 billion dlrs in1986.    The report showed a decline in proven oil reserves to 2.41billion barrels at the end of 1986 from 2.65 billion barrels ayear earlier as discoveries and other additions dropped to 11.4mln barrels last year from 23.2 mln in 1985.    But it said gas reeserves rose to 7.31 trillion cubic feetfrom 7.22 trillion at the end of 1985 despite a 30.9 mln cubicfeet downward revision in previous reserve estimates during1986. Discoveries and other additions totaled 200.5 billioncubic feet last year, up from 175.9 billion in 1985, it added.    Standard said both oil and gas production increased lastyear -- to 726,600 barrels per day from 719,700 barrels theprevious day and to 154.4 mln cubic feet daily from 10.1 mln in1985.    But the average sales price of both dropped -- to 13.83dlrs per barrel from 26.43 dlrs for oil in 1985 and to 1.49dlrs per thousand cubic feet from 2.18 dlrs a year earlier.    Standard said its refined product sales also rose lastyear, to 644,500 barrels per day from 604,200 barrels daily in1985. Reuter
OIL EXECUTIVES SEE GRADUAL RISE IN PRICES Top executives with Tenneco Corp <TGT>and Sabine Corp <SAB> said they expected world oil prices togradually increase over the next two years as U.S. reliance onimports of oil from the Middle East grows.     "I believe we have bottomed out and can look forward to atrend of gradually increasing prices," C.W. Nance, president ofTenneco Oil Exploration and Production, told a meeting of thePetroleum Equipment Suppliers Association.     Nance predicted that by 1990, the Organization ofProducing and Exporting Countries would be producing at therate of 80 pct of capacity.    The gain will come largely through increased imports to theUnited States, he said.    "They will be able to raise the price again but I do notthink they will raise it as much as they did in 1979," Nancesaid. He did not say how much of a price hike he expected.     Andrew Shoup, chairman of Dallas-based Sabine, predictedthat world oil prices would increase from a range of 15 to 20dlrs a barrel in 1987 to a range of 17 to 22 dlrs a barrel in1988. Natural gas prices, Shoup said, should similarly climbfrom a range of 1.30 to 1.70 dlrs per mcf this year to between1.50 and 1.90 dlrs per mcf in 1988.     "Fuel switching could help us as much as five pct inincreased demand," Shoup said, referring to the gas industry'soutlook for 1987. Repeal of the Fuel Use Act, a federal lawprohibiting the use of natural gas in new manufacturing plantsand utilities, could increase demand for gas by as much as 15pct, he said.     Tenneco's Nance also said that some U.S. cities mayexperience peak day shortages in natural gas supplies nextwinter because of the industry's reduced deliverability.     Tenneco's gas deliverability, for example, dropped by 20pct during 1986, he said.     "This does not mean the gas bubble is gone," Nance said."We believe gas prices have bottomed out. The real question ishow broad the valley is -- is it one year, two years or threeyears before we start to climb out?"      J.C. Walter of <Walter Oil and Gas Corp>, said the recentimprovement in oil prices was not enough for independentproducers to begin new onshore drilling projects.     "If crude oil stays below 20 dlrs a barrel and 1.50 dlrper mcf for natural gas prevails, the prospects for onshoreexploration at deeper depths in the Texas Gulf Coast byindependents in the 1990s are pretty dismal," Walter said.     He suggested that some independents may instead turn toexploration in shallow federal offshore leases. Farm-outagreements, cheap rig rates and less competition have heldfinding costs in those areas to five or six dlrs a barrel,Walter said. Reuter
NOBLE AFFILIATES <NBL> FINDS NATURAL GAS Noble Affiliates Inc said itfound natural gas on Ship Shoal 80, located about 10 milesoffshore Louisiana in the Gulf of Mexico.    The discovery well, Samedan Oil Corp's OCS-G 5537 WellNumber One, was drilled in 25 feet of water to a total depth of7,500 feet and found 38 feet of net gas pay in a 48-foot grosssand interval, the company said.    The well tested gas at a rate of 6.2 mln cubic feet a daythrough a 26/64-inch choke with 1,548 pounds flowing tubingpressure. Gas sales should begin in the first quarter of 1988,it said.    Samedan, a Noble unit, is operator and owns a 60 pctworking interest in the well. Other owners are a New EnglandElectric System <NES> unit, with a 25 pct stake, andSouthwestern Energy Production Co, with 15 pct. Reuter
U.S. ENERGY COSTS ROSE IN FEBRUARY BY 1.9 PCT Consumer energy costs rose 1.9 pctin February following a sharp rise last month, the LaborDepartment said.    The February increase in the overall energy costs,including petroleum, coal and natural gas, followed a 0.2 pctdrop in December and a 3.0 pct rise in January, it said.    Energy prices were 12.2 pct below year-ago levels.    The department's Consumer Price Index showed that the costof gasoline rose in February by 4.2 pct, after a 6.6 pct risein January.    Gasoline prices were nonetheless 18.0 pct below theirlevels as of February 1986.    Also, the category including fuel oil, coal and bottled gasrose in February by 3.8 pct, putting it 14.9 pct under theyear-ago figure.    The index also showed that natural gas and electricity wereunchanged last month, but down 3.5 pct from the February 1986figure, the department said.    The index has been updated  o reflect 1982-84 consumptionpatterns; previously, the index was based on 1972-73 patterns. Reuter
ARKLA <ALG> PROPOSAL TO SETTLE DISPUTE Arkla Inc said it andInternational Paper Co <IP> filed a proposal with the ArkansasPublic Service Commission designed to resolve the disputebetween the two over IP's plan to build natural gas pipelinesfor its paper mill facilities at Pine Bluff and Camden.    Arkla's pipeline division, Arkla Energy Resources,currently delivers all of the natural gas consumed at the twomills.    Under the proposal, Arkla will support IP's plan to buildthe alternate pipelines, while IP will allow Arkla's pipelinedivision to deliver an equal quantity of competitively pricedsupplies to other IP facilities. Reuter
CSR SELLS OIL/GAS INTERESTS, BIDS TO EXTEND SUGAR CSR Ltd has made a bold move in sellingits oil and gas interests for almost a billion dlrs andploughing 150 mln into its traditional sugar business, shareanalysts said.    CSR said it had dropped plans to float its oil and gasinterests held in the Delhi Australia Fund and would insteadsell them to Exxon Corp unit Esso Exploration and ProductionAustralia Inc for 985 mln dlrs.    In a twin announcement CSR, already Australia's largestsugar refiner, made a 2.20 dlr a share bid for the 70 pct itdoes not already hold in Pioneer Sugar Mills Ltd.    A float of part of Delhi would have raised between 200 and300 mln dlrs, but in opting to sell outright CSR had givenitself the cash to all but eliminate its debt and embark on anambitious expansion programme in its best-performing divisionsof sugar and building products, analysts said.    The Pioneer Sugar investment would give CSR by far thelargest stake in Australia's 850 mln dlr a year sugar industryand access to some of the best sugar properties and mills inthe country, they said. Pioneer Sugar was expected to recommendacceptance of the bid, through which CSR would benefit from thebottoming out of a cyclical downturn in sugar prices. REUTER
EXXON <XON> OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION ROSE IN 1986 Exxon Corp said in its annual reportthat it raised production in 1986 although it did not replaceall oil and gas produced.    The company said that it added about four pct to productionbringing it to 1.8 mln bpd, the highest level since 1979, basedlargely on increased production of oil overseas but additionsto its reserves from new discoveries and reserve acquisitionsdid not replace all of the oil and gas produced.    The company said that the average price for oil and gasdeclined 41 pct in 1986 from the previous year sparking a 38pct decline in its earnings from exploration and production.    Exxon's earnings from exploration and production in 1986fell to 3.1 billion dlrs from 4.9 billion dlrs in 1985.    Exxon said that its principal gains in production came fromthe Gulf of Mexico, Alaska, the North Sea, Malaysia and fromoil sands in Canada.    Exxon also said that it acquired 11.2 mln acres forexpoloration spread over 10 countries including the U.S, Europeand the Far East.    But capital expenditures for exploration and productionwere cut to 4.6 billion dlrs from 7.6 billion the previous yearand further reductions were expected in 1987.    Exxon said that its net share of crude oil and natural gasliquids produced from offshore fields in the North Sea reacheda new high of 422,000 bpd.    The light, sweet crudes produced from these North Seafields also gave the company trading gains as Exxon was able tosell much of this crude and replace it with cheaper, lowerquality crude oil for its refineries which have been upgradedover the past several years.    The trading gains and lower acquisition costs gave Exxonmore of a spread in its refinery operations and added toearnings gains from refining and marketing.    Exxon said earnings from refining and marketing operationsrose to nearly two billion dlrs in 1986, up from 872 mln dlrsin 1985.    The company said petroleum sales slipped slightly to 4.043mln barrels per day from 4.082 mln bpd in 1985 while crude runsrose to 3.0 mln bpd from 2.9 mln bpd the previous year.    Exxon's refinery operations benefited from a three year 500mln dlr upgrading program to its Baytown, Texas refinerycompleted last October and an 850 mln dlr upgrading project inRotterdam both of which emphasize utilizing lower grade crudesto extract higher proportions of light products. Reuter
SOUTHWESTERN ENERGY <SWN>, ARKLA <ALG> SET PACT Southwestern Energy Co saidit reached an agreement with Arkla Energy Resources for Arklato carry gas owned by Southwestern subsidiaries.    Under the agreement, the interstate pipeline division ofArkla Inc will carry up to 25 mln cubic feet of gas a day untilDec 31, 1987, and, subject to capacity, up to 50 mln cubic feeta day in 1988 and 75 mln feet a day for the rest of the pact.    Payment terms vary depending on the type of serviceprovided, a Southwestern spokesman said.    The deal is effective March one, 1987, expires July one,1997, and is renewable yearly thereafter, he said.    The pact calls for transmission of gas owned by ArkansasWestern Gas Co, Seeco Inc, Arkansas Gas Gathering Co andSouthwestern Energy Production Co, Southwestern Energy said. Reuter
DEVON <DIN> REPORTS INCREASE IN RESERVES Devon Resource Investors said asof January one, its estimated proven reserves increasedby 443,000 net equivalent barrels to 32.4 billion cubic feet ofnatural gas and 660,000 barrels of oil, compared with 29.5 bcfof gas and 700,500 barrels of oil as of Jan one, 1986.    Devon said that its estimated future net revenuesattributable to reserves is about 58 mln dlrs with a presentvalue, discounted at 10 pct, of 38 mln dlrs.    It also said that it expects to have sufficient cash flowto cover its annual payout of 60 ct per unit and expand itsdrilling budget in 1987. Reuter
BRITISH PETROLEUM RAISES NORTH SEA BUTANE PRICES  British Petroleum Co plc said it raisedits posted butane prices by 15.50 dlrs per tonne to 123 dlrs,fob north sea, effective today.    Posted propane prices were unchanged at 110 dlrs per tonne,the company said.    Reuter
UTILICORP <UCU> DIVISION CUTS GAS RATES Utilicorp United said the IowaUtilities Board has ordered its Peoples Natural Gas division toreduce its rates to customers by 313,937 dlrs.    Utilicorp said it will request a reconsideration of theorder within 20 days and the Board will have 20 days to actupon the request.    The company said the reduction was the result of a raterequest filed by Peoples in May 1986 for an 8.6 mln dlrincrease. The Board granted Peoples an interim increase of 4.2mln dlrs in August 1986, Utilicorp said. Reuter
SUN <SUN> IN NORTH DAKOTA OIL FIND Sun Co Inc said the O.M. Steel FederalNumber One well in Williams County, N.D., flowed 660 barrels ofoil and 581,000 cubic feet of natural gas per day through a13/64 inch choke from depths of 13,188 to 13,204 feet.    Sun said it has a 50 pct interest and Comdisco ResourcesInc the remainder.  An offset well is under consideration, it said. Reuter
COOPER BASIN NATURAL GAS RESERVES UPGRADED Remaining recoverable gas reserves inthe areas held by the Santos Ltd <STOS.S>-led Cooper Basinjoint ventures have been upgraded to 2,721.7 billion cubic feet(bcf) from the 2,466 estimated last May, Santos said.    The upgrading followed a re-review by consultant <ColesNikiforuk Pennell Associates> in light of the large number ofgas finds since May 1986, Santos said in a statement.    This means that total contractual commitments of 2,455.5bcf to <The Australian Gas Light Co> of New South Wales and thePipeline Authority of South Australia can be met with spare gasavailable for sale in South Australia, it said. REUTER
NERCO <NER> TO ACQUIRE INTEREST IN GAS FILED Nerco Inc said it has agreed toacquire a 47 pct working interest in the Broussard Gas Field insouthern Louisiana from privately-owned <Davis Oil Co> forabout 22.5 mln dlrs in cash.    Nerco said the interest being purchased will give itestimated proven oil and gas reserves equal to six billioncubic feet of natural gas. The property includes six gas wells,one oil well two undeveloped drilling locations, a centralproduction facility and a gas gathering system.    Nerco is 90 pct owned by PacifiCorp <PPW>. Reuter
TEXAS PETROLEUM ACQUIRES OIL AND GAS PROPERTIES Texas Petroleum Corp said it issued 14.4mln shares of restricted common stock in exchange for oil andgas properties and joint ventures located in the U.S. andoverseas.    The properties were acquired from <North American Oil andGas Corp> and Texas Petroleum Corp in Canada, the company said.It added the acquisitions were the first step toward creatingan oil and gas exploration and development enterprise. Reuter
INTERNATIONAL LPG PRICES MIXED International LPG prices were mixed inthe past week, with North Sea prices easier while prices in theMediterranean and the Gulf were up in April, traders said.    In the North Sea market, small cargoes of propane were soldas high as 126 dlrs per tonne on the f.o.b. basis early in theweek, but prices eased after the majors posted their Aprilcontract prices, traders said.    British Petroleum plc <BP> left propane unchanged at 110dlrs and raised butane prices 5.50 dlrs to 123 dlrs, Shell, aunit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD> <ST> raised propane threedlrs to 113 and butane 5.50 dlrs to 123 dlrs, they said.    In the Mediterranean, prices firm in Lavera as Algeriansupplies were not always available. Spot propane was unchanged,while butane rose about 25 dlrs from last week, traders said.    They said, however, the Mediterranean butane market wasvery thin, making it subject to wide price swings.    In the Gulf, strong demand from the Far East pushed premiumon small cargoes five to 10 dlrs above government selling price(gsp) for propane and 10 dlrs for butane, traders said.     The rising premium over gsp, however, was partially offsetby about 10 pct decline in shipping, making prices for propaneabout unchanged and butane five dlrs higher, basis c. and f.Japan, the traders said.SPOT.(DLRS/TONNE)......PROPANE..............BUTANE...........NORTH SEA (FOB)........113/117..............125/130..........NORTH SEA (CIF)........120/125..............135/140..........MEDITERRANEAN.(CIF)....140/145..............175/180..........THE GULF (FOB).........130/135..............140/145..........JAPAN (C AND F)........155/160..............160/165..........OFFICIAL PRICES-FOB..........................................SAUDI ARABIA (3/1)........125.................125............ALGERIA......(3/1)........120.................130............BP/POSTED PRICE.(4/1).....110.................123.00.........SHELL/POSTED PRICE.(4/1)..113.................123.00......... Reuter
JAPAN TO REVISE LONG-TERM ENERGY DEMAND DOWNWARDS The Ministry of International Trade andIndustry (MITI) will revise its long-term energy supply/demandoutlook by August to meet a forecast downtrend in Japaneseenergy demand, ministry officials said.    MITI is expected to lower the projection for primary energysupplies in the year 2000 to 550 mln kilolitres (kl) from 600mln, they said.    The decision follows the emergence of structural changes inJapanese industry following the rise in the value of the yenand a decline in domestic electric power demand.    MITI is planning to work out a revised energy supply/demandoutlook through deliberations of committee meetings of theAgency of Natural Resources and Energy, the officials said.    They said MITI will also review the breakdown of energysupply sources, including oil, nuclear, coal and natural gas.    Nuclear energy provided the bulk of Japan's electric powerin the fiscal year ended March 31, supplying an estimated 27pct on a kilowatt/hour basis, followed by oil (23 pct) andliquefied natural gas (21 pct), they noted. REUTER
U.S.SENATE LIFTS SOME BANS ON NATURAL GAS The Senate unanimously approvedlegislation to lift a ban on new construction of naturalgas-fired power plants and other large industrial gas-burningplants.    The bill, sponsored by Senate Energy Committee chairmanBennett Johnston, also repeals mandatory incremental pricing ofnatural gas which was designed to protect residential consumersfrom major price increases by forcing some industrial users topay higher than market prices.    "This legislation will open up new natural gas markets," theLousiana Democrat said.    The gas restrictions were enacted in 1978 in response to ashortage of natural gas and predictions of higher prices.    "Now both oil and gas prices are severely depressed,"Johnston said.    In a compromise with coal producers, the bill requires newbaseload electric powerplants be designed to accomodatemodifications necessary to burning coal or another alternatefuel. Reuter
MALAYSIA SEEKS 42 BILLION YEN PIPELINE LOAN Malaysia has asked Japan for a 42billion yen 25-year loan to finance the construction of gaspipelines from eastern Trengganu to southern Johor, theOverseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) said.    OECF's chief representative, Takashi Matsuya, toldreporters the Japanese Government is appraising the loan.Another OECF official told Reuters Japan is likely to approvethe loan because "it is technically and economically viable."    If approved, the loan would carry a coupon rate of fourpct, a grace period of seven years, Matsuya said. It would bedisbursed over three years, he added.    The pipeline contruction is the second phase of thePeninsular Gas Utilisation Project by Petronas, Malaysia'snational oil company.    The first phase was the supply of gas to households in andaround the eastern oil town of Kertih. REUTER
NERCI <NER> UNIT CLOSES OIL/GAS ACQUISITION Nerco Inc said its oil and gasunit closed the acquisition of a 47 pct working interest in theBroussard oil and gas field from <Davis Oil Co> for about 22.5mln dlrs in cash.    Nerco said it estimates the field's total proved developedand undeveloped reserves at 24 billion cubic feet, orequivalent, of natural gas, which more than doubles thecompany's previous reserves.    The field is located in southern Louisiana. Reuter
STATOIL SEEKS SHARE IN THAI GAS FIELD Norway's state oil companyDen Norske Stats Oljeselskap A/S (Statoil) <STAT.OL>, has toldThai authorities it is interested in taking a 30 pct share in abig offshore Thailand gas field, Statoil said.    The field, in the southern sector of the Gulf of Thailand,is currently operated by U.S. Oil company Texas Pacific Oil CoInc, a unit of Canada's Seagram Co Ltd <VO.N>. Thailand's stateoil company <Petroleum Authority Thailand> (PTT) also holds amajor stake in the field.    PTT wants to develop the field and has asked Statoil toconsider co-development if the field's licence is renewed.    PTT, according to Statoil, is currently negotiating withTexas Pacific to buy back the Dallas-based oil company'sholdings in the field.    "PTT must first sort out its problems with Texas Pacific.When this is done, we have said we are interested in takingover a 30 pct share in the field," Statoil spokesman Willy Olsentold Reuters.    Statoil, hired by PTT to carry out an independent appraisalof the field's reserves and propose a development plan, hasestimated the field could be commercially developed at a costof some 700 mln crowns.    Industry sources said Texas Pacific has submitted lowerreserve estimates for the field than Statoil and shown littleinterest in its development. Statoil refused to disclose itsupgraded reserve estimate for the field.    The field's reserves could be sold domestically throughThailand's gas distribution network or by converting the gas toelectricity, the sources said.    Sources would not say which field Statoil is considering. REUTER
COLUMBIA GAS <CG> SEEKS CONTRACT COST RECOVERY Columbia Gas Transmissioncorp said it made an abbreviated, streamlined filing with theFederal Energy Regulatory Commission to recover a portion ifits costs of renegotiating high-cost gas purchase contracts.    Recently, the Columbia Gas System Inc pipeline subsidiarysaid, FERC denied on procedural grounds and without prejudice aproposal to include these costs in the company's most recentpurchased gas adjustment -- or PGA -- filing.    Noting it has has asked for a rehearing on the denialruling, Columbia Gas said it would withdraw its alternativefiling if the commission grantes its request for a rehearing toinclude the contract renegotiation costs in its PGA orconsolidates this issue in the pipeline's general rate filingand permit recovery, subject to refund, effective April one.    The company said the alternative filing seeks to recoverabout 79 mln dlrs a year through the pipeline's non-gas salescommodity rates. This annual amortization amount is based onrecovery of about 653 mln drls over an 8-1/4 year period,beginning April 1, 1987.    Columbia Gas said the filing would increase the pipelinecommodity rates by 15.74 cts per mln Btu to 2.95 dlrs per mln.    The company said it orginially sought to include thesecosts in its PGA since the payments to products resulted inalmost five billion dlrs in prospective price relief and werenot related to take-or-pay buyout costs.    It explained this interpretation was based on FERC's April10, 1985, Statement of Policy which said that only take-or-paybuyout costs must be recovered through a general rate filingunder the Natural Gas Act.    As a result of renegotiating contracts for high-cost gas,Columbia Gas said, it has been able to reduce the average pricepaid for gas purchased from Southwest producers to 1.96 dlrsper mln Btu in December 1986 from 3.64 dlrs per mln in April1985.    The pipeline said Southwestern producers account for 46 pctof its total available gas supply this year. Reuter
STANDARD <SRD>,MOBIL <MOB>PLAN OFFSHORE PLATFORM Standard Oil Co said a contract hasbeen awarded to <CBS Engineering Inc> for a drilling andproduction platform to be installed in Ewing Bank Block 826 inthe Gulf of Mexico where Standard and Mobil Corp each own a 40pct interest.    Standard said its Standard Oil Production Co subsidiarywill operate the platform which is being designed to produce15,000 barrels of oil and 50 mln cubic feet of gas daily. Theplatform is now expected to be installed in the summer of 1988.Other owners are Kerr-McGee Corp <KMG> with 16.66 pct and<Prudential Insurance Co of America> with  3.34 pct. Reuter
CANADA APPROVES U.S. GAS EXPORTS BY PROGAS ProGas Ltd was issued an export licenceto sell 10.3 billion cubic meters of natural gas to Ocean StatePower Co of Burrillville, Rhode Island, the federal energydepartment said.    The sale, covering a 20 year period beginning May 1, 1989,was previously recommended by the National Energy Board.    Contract terms were not released. Reuter
BROOKLYN UNION'S <BU> UNIT TO EXPAND DRILLING Brooklyn Union Gas Co's BrooklynUnion Exploration Co Inc unit said it entered a 200 mln dlrthree-year gas and oil exploration and development venture withSmith Offshore Exploration Co.    The agreement calls for drilling of 10 to 12 offshore wellsper year, primarily in the Gulf of Mexico area off the Texasand Louisiana coasts and 30 to 40 onshore Texas and LouisianaGulf Coast wells.    Reuter
CSR MAKES SIGNIFICANT QUEENSLAND NATURAL GAS FIND CSR Ltd <CSRA.S> and its partners havemade a significant natural gas discovery in the Roma region ofcentral western Queensland, CSR said in a statement.    The Wingnut Number One exploration well flowed up to 6.5mln cubic feet a day from three zones during drill stem testingover the intervals 1,180-1,207 meters and 1,112-1,159.    CSR said the well, 400 meters from an existing gasgathering system, is the second of a four well program in theRoma petroleum leases being funded by <Barcoo Petroleum NL>.    Interest holders on completion will be CSR 42.58 pct,Barcoo 49.9, and <IOL Petroleum Ltd> 7.51. REUTER
SHELL CANADA <SHC.TO> SEES BETTER YEAR Shell Canada Ltd saidperformance in all business segments in the first quartershowed improvement over last year and it expects "significantlyenhanced performance" in 1987.    Shell Canada reported first quarter earnings of 103 mlndlrs, or 90 cts per share, up from 40 mln dlrs, or 32 cts pershare.    Oil products earnings were 38 mln dlrs, up 19 mln dlrs fromlast year, when margins were impaired by lower oil prices.    Shell Canada said chemical earnings were 17 mln dlrs in thequarter, compared with a loss of five mln dlrs in 1986. Thestyrene business saw significant improvement, stemming from anincrease in international demand.    Resources earnings increased by six mln dlrs to 46 mlndlrs. Lower prices for all commodities were offset by theremoval of the Petroleum and Gas Revenue Tax, the impact oflower royalty rates and higher volumes.    Gross production of crude oil and natural gas liquidsincreased seven pct from the first quarter of last year to11,200 cubic meters a day, Shell said.    Shell Canada also said natural gas sales volumes of 19.6mln cubic meters a day was up five pct from last year.    Sulphur sales of 4,143 tonnes a day were up 70 pct.    The company also recorded benefits of 10 mln dlrs from theacquisition of Shell Explorer Ltd. Interest expense for thequarter was lower than in the previous year, due to the earlyretirement of a 200 mln U.S. dlr debenture and the impact of astronger Canadian dollar on U.S. dollar-denominated debt. Reuter
VALERO PARTNERS <VLP> WINS TAKE OR PAY CASE Valero Natural Gas PartnersLP, 49 pct owned by Valero Energy Corp <VLO>, said a jury inSutton County, Texas, district court has found that it had noliability for 21 mln dlrs in take-or-pay claims that had beenalleged by Lively Exploration Co.    Take-or-pay claims involve allegations that natural gassupply contracts require volume of natural gas to be paid foreven if not taken. As a result of declining markets, mostpipelines, like Valero, do not have customers for all the gasthat could be delivered by producers, such as Lively.    Valero said it used as its primary defense the TexasRailroad Commission's rules that require intrastate pipelinesto take ratably from their producers and in times of surplustake gas in accordance with priority categories set by thecommission. Reuter
CONSOLIDATED GAS <CNG>HIGH BIDDER ON GULF TRACTS Consolidated Natural Gas Co said itsCNG Producing Co subsidiary, bidding alone or with partners,was the apparent high bidder on six of seven tracts it south atWednesday's sale of federal oil and gas leases in the Gulf ofMexico.    The company said it share of the six bids totaled 6.2 mlndlrs. Its 100 pct interest bids were on three offshore tracts-- West Cameron 209, 302 and 303. Consolidated has a 50 pctinterest in the bid for Eugene Island 375 and Ship Shoal 128and 129.       The remaining interest in 139 is held by Sun EnergyPartners <SLP>, which is 96.3 pct owned by Sun Co Inc <SUN>.<Union Texas Petroleum Corp>, which is 49.7 pct owned byAllied-Signal Inc <ALD>, is Consolidated's partner on the othertwo tracts. Reuter
EXXON <XON> NET DROPS ON LOWER OIL, GAS PRICES Exxon Corp reported a 37 pct drop infirst quarter profits to 1.07 billion dlrs citing lower oil andgas prices.    The company said profits in the lastest quarter included a26 mln drl restructuring gain from divestment of certain goldoperations overseas, while last year's first quarter profit of1.71 billion dlrs included the initial charge of 235 mln dlrsfor its 1986 corporate reorganization.    First quarter revenues were down 13 pct to 19.44 billiondlrs.       One time items aside, Exxon said, its first quarter resultswere stronger than 1986's final quarter which included severallarge asset sales and positive inventory adjustments.    It said earnings per share declined 36 pct reflecting thecompany's continued purchases of its own common for thetreasury. During the first quarter, 5,085,000 shares wereacquired at a cost of 416 mln dlrs compared with 3,132,000 in1986's fourth quarter.    Commenting on the first quarter, Exxon said crude oilprices strengthened moderately within the quarter and werehigher than a year ago at the end of the quarter.       However, average crude prices for the quarter were belowthe year ago period, leading to lower earnings for explorationand production operations, Exxon said.    Also contributing to reduced earnings were lower naturalgas prices, primarily overseas, representing contractadjustments representing contract adjustments tied to fallingproduct prices in 1986, the company said.    During the first quarter, the company said, intensecompetition in both domestic and international markets servedto depress margins for refined products.       Exxon said the lower product margins resulted insignificantly reduced earnings for refining and marketingoperations, contrasting sharply with the unusually strongmargins prevailing in the first qtr of 1986.    It said savings from efforts to control costs and improveefficiency helped soften the negative impact of lower oil andnatural gas prices.    Exxon said earnings from chemicals and power generationactivities showed consideratble improvement, remaining strongthroughout the period. Reuter
PHILLIPS <P> CITES LOWER OIL PRICES IN DECLINE Phillips Petroleum Co citedlower oil and gas prices in its first quarter loss of 32 mlndlrs or 16 cts a shares compared with net income of 96 mln dlrsor 39 cts a share in the year-ago period.    It also said there was a decline in crude oil productiondue to its recently completed asset sales program.    Phillips also said it expects crude prices will continue tobe soft in the second and third quarters, but will improvetoward the end of the year.       Phillips also said that foreign currency transaction lossesin the first quarter were 10 mln dlrs compared with a gain of46 mln dlrs in the fourth quarter of 1986 and a loss of one mlndlrs in the first quarter of 1986. Reuter
VENEZUELA RE-ESTABLISHES POSTED PRODUCT PRICES Petroleos de Venezuela, PDVSA, thestate owned oil company, has re-established posted prices forsome light products and heavy fuel oil, industry sources in NewYork said.    The return to posted prices is a sign that the market isreturning to a more stable and orderly condition after a yearof volatile price movements in which Venezuela ceased postingprices and moved to negotiating prices with companies.    "We are in more stable market now and PDVSA has probablydecided to return to postings for some products," one industrytrade source said.       But there was no talk of Venezuela posting prices for crudeoil which were also dropped in 1986.    Posted prices were dropped in the first quarter of 1986  when prices for crude oil and products tumbled in response toOPEC's market share strategy and netback arrangements.    PDVSA has set out posted prices for several groups of lightproducts including gasoline, naphtha, jet kerosene anddistillates effective April 15 as follows.    Unleaded gasoline was posted at 19.74 dlrs a barrel (47 ctsa gallon) with leaded gasoline at 20.16 dlrs a barrel (48 cts agallon).       Light naphtha was posted at 17.85 dlrs a barrel (42.5 cts agallon), full range naphtha at 19.11 dlrs a barrel (45.50 cts agallon), and heavy naphtha at 19.53 cts a gallon (46.5 cts agallon).    Jet kerosene was posted at 18.90 dlrs a barrel, alsoeffective April 15, or (45 cts a gallon) with dual purposekerosene at 18.06 dlrs a barrel (43 cts a gallon).    Distillates of 0.2 pct sulphur and 0.3 pct sulphur gradeswere posted at 18.48 dlrs a barrel (44 cts a gallon), each with0.5 pct sulphur 18.08 dlrs a barrel (43.05 cts a gallon).    LPG postings, also effective from April 15, were made as follows, propane 175 dlrs a tonne (33.33 cts a gallon), butane210 dlrs a tonne (46.26 cts a gallon) and isobutane at 240 dlrsa tonne.    Heavy fuel products were given a posted price effectiveApril 10 and ranged from 0.3 pct sulphur at 19.35 dlrs a barrelto 17.21 dlrs a barrel for 2.8 pct sulphur.    Heavy fuel postings are also referred to as minimum exportprices. Reuter
NOBLE <NBL> SUBMITS HIGH BID FOR TRACT Noble Affiliates Inc said itsubmitted the high bid for six tracts at the Central Gulf ofMexico sale on April 22.    It said its exploration and production subsidiary, SamedanOil Corp, participated in the high bid for the followingtracts, West Cameron 296, East Cameron 296, Vermilion 266, ShipShoal 350, Main Pass 90 and Main Pass 100. Reuter
SHELL OIL FIRST QUARTER NET DROPS 61 PCT  Shell Oil Co said first quarter netincome dropped 61 pct over the prior-year quarter on revenuesthat slipped four pct.    "Lower prices for crude oil and natural gas and reducedmargins in our oil and chemical products businesses were themajor factor for the earings decline," John F. Bookout,president, said in a statement.    For the quarter, the company, a unit of Royal Dutch/ShellGroup <RD> <SC>, earned 108 mln dlrs on sales of 4.50 billiondlrs, compared with 276 mln dlrs on sales of 4.67 billion dlrsa year ago.    Bookout said the company is cautiously optimistic oilmarkets will be less volatile in coming months than they werein 1986.    "In coming months, oil products results should benefit fromseasonally higher gasoline volumes," he said.    "However, so long as U.S. product inventories remain high,it may be difficult to fully recover from the depressed marginsof recent periods," he added.    Bookout said the company's chemical products earningsshould benefit from strong performances in chemical salesvolumes and continued high industry operating rates.    Shell said its oil and gas exploration and product segmentearned 110 mln dlrs for the quarter vs 91 mln dlrs in 1986.    It said earnings were hurt by lower selling prices forcrude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. Domestic crudeoil prices averaged 14.24 dlrs a barrel, compared with 19.28dlrs last year, while natural gas prices dropped 24 pct, Shellsaid.    Shell said earnings at its oil products segment plunged by53 mln dlrs, to eight mln dlrs. It said lower refined productselling prices were only partially offset by reduced rawmaterial costs.    The company said earnings from chemical products also fellsharply, to 40 mln dlrs from 72 mln dlrs, due mainly to lowermargins, especially in commodity chemicals, coupled with itspullout from the agricultural chemicals business in October1986.    Shell said capital and exploratory outlays totaled 500 mlndlrs for the quarter, off from 645 mln dlrs. Reuter
U.S. ENERGY COSTS ROSE IN MARCH BY 1.0 PCT Consumer energy costs rose 1.0 pctin March following a moderate rise last month, the LaborDepartment said.    The March increase in the overall energy costs, includingpetroleum, coal and natural gas, followed a 3.0 pct rise inJanuary and a 1.9 pct rise in February, it said.    However, energy prices were 5.6 pct below year-ago levels.    The department's Consumer Price Index showed that the costof gasoline rose in March by 2.3 pct, after a 4.2 pct rise inFebruary.    Gasoline prices were nonetheless 5.9 pct below their levelsas of March 1986.    Also, the category including fuel oil, coal and bottled gasrose in March by 1.4 pct, putting it 9.0 pct under the year-agofigure.    The index also showed that natural gas and electricity wereunchanged last month, but down 3.1 pct from the March 1986figure, the department said.    The index has been updated to reflect 1982-84 consumptionpatterns. Previously, the index was based on 1972-73 patterns. Reuter
ALGERIA SIGNS MAJOR LNG DEAL WITH U.S. GROUP Algeria's national petroleum agencySonatrach and the U.S. Panhandle-Trunkline <PEL.N> group signeda 20-year accord for the delivery of liquefied natural gas(LNG), the official APS news agency said.    Deliveries will start next winter and rise over three yearsto reach 4.5 billion cubic metres annually, with 60 pct of thegas carried in Algerian ships to a terminal at Lake Charles,La., APS said.   APS said the pricing formula will "preserve the purchasingpower of LNG and the interests of Sonatrach, and take intoaccount ... The world (and) the American market."    The agreement follows months of negotiations betweenPanhandle Eastern Petroleum Corp and Sonatrach over the new LNGcontract.    The talks followed an accord in July 1986 which resolved along-standing dispute between Sonatrach and Panhandlesubsidiary <Trunkline Gas Co> after the U.S. Group unilaterallysuspended purchases of Algerian LNG. REUTER
UK NOT CONSIDERING RESTRICTING OIL OUTPUT Britain is not considering anyrestriction of its present oil production, UK Energy MinisterAlick Buchanan-Smith said.     Speaking to reporters at the Offshore TechnologyConference, Buchanan-Smith said, "No, we've made thatabsolutely clear, we see no reason for changing (the productionlevel)."     Earlier today, Buchanan-Smith gave the go-ahead to MobilCorp for two new North Sea developments -- the Ness oil fieldand Beryl B subsea water injection project -- totalling 96 mlndlrs (60 mln British pounds).     Unlike Norway, which has restricted its production ofNorth Sea oil by 80,000 barrels a day in an effort to stabilizeworld oil prices, Britain has consistently refused to intervenein the market place.     Buchanan-Smith also said there may be a demand-supply gapin the 1990s for natural gas in Britain, but added that itwould probably be less than had been previously estimated.     Norway is a major producer of natural gas and this morningNorway's Energy Minister Arne Oien said he was hoping Britainwill take more Norwegian gas in the 1990s.     Buchanan-Smith also said he expects to announce theresults of the 10th licensing round of North Sea tracts nextmonth.     He said there had been 75 applications for 127 tracts by84 companies, and added that he expects about 50 blocks will belicensed.     He said the results would be in line with rounds prior tobut not equal to the ninth two years ago, which was one of themost successful ever. Reuter
POGO <PPP> SEES INCREASING OIL PRODUCTION Pogo Producing Co said it should gainsome 700 to 800 barrels per day of additional oil productionwhen new onshore wells start production in June.    The company said work on offshore properties appears to beon schedule to complete the addition before year end of about10 mln cubic feet of gas and 400 barrels of liquids to Pogo'sdaily producing capabilities.    In the first quarter, liquids production averaged 8,525barrels daily, down from 11,233 barrels a day in the yearearlier quarter. Reuter
OCCIDENTAL <OXY> HAS STAKE IN NORWAY OIL FIND Occidental Petroleum Corp said agroup in which it is a participant discovered oil in theoffshore Norwegian North Sea Block 9/2-1 exploratory well.    The well tested at a maximum rate of 6,800 barrels of 39degree API gravity oil and 918 thousand cubic feet of gasthrough a 3/4 inch choke. The well, the first to be drilled onthe block, was drilled in about 320 feet of water to a totaldepth of 12,228 feet subsea.    Occidental has a 10-pct stake in the 136,067-acre blockoperated by Statoil, the Norwegian state oil company, whichholds a 50 pct interest. Reuter
NORTH AMERICAN GAS MARKET SOUGHT BY FERC Blocking Canadian gas importswould not serve the long-term interests of the United States,said Martha Hesse, chairman of the Federal Energy RegulatoryCommission, adding that the development of a freely open NorthAmerican energy market should be encouraged.    "I firmly believe that the long-term interest of U.S.consumers would not be served by any attempt to promote a 'Madein America' label for gas," she said at an oil and gasconference.    She said the commission recognizes the important roleCanadian gas plays in the American market, despite grumblingsamong U.S. domestic producers of the competition from north ofthe border.    Recent figures show Canada shipped 2.48 billion Canadiandlrs worth of gas to the U.S. in 1986, down sharply from the3.91 billion dlr total in 1985.    "But we do seriously recognize the importance in the yearsto come of the supplies of Canadian gas to U.S. markets," shesaid. "And even in the short term, competition is generally agood thing," she added.    She said the commission is concentrating on improving theaccess to U.S. pipelines, something that would be of greatbenefit to Canadian producers.    Hesse said transportation of Canadian gas is alreadyimproving, gas imports rising more than 21 pct in the first twomonths of the year. But Hesse declined to comment in detail onthe controversial December order, known as the "as billed issue",because it is the subject of a new hearing.    The order, which is being fought by Canada, involvesbarring U.S. pipeline companies and consumers from payingcertain Canadian shipping expenses.    Hesse said the order was never intended "as an attempt toextend the arm of U.S. regulations across the border."    However, a senior Canadian government energy officialwarned delegates the ruling could severely weaken Canadian gasproducers. "Besides the extra territorial effect, there is thepotential that Canadian consumers and producers may end upsubsidizing the cost of transportation services originallyincurred on behalf of U.S. customers," said Robert Skinner, anassistant deputy minister in Canada's energy department. Reuter
MORGAN STANLEY GROUP <MS> UNIT IN GAS DEAL Morgan Stanley Group Inc unit NaturalGas Clearinghouse Inc said it has reached agreement with(Pan-Alberta Gas Ltd) of Canada to import substantialquantities of natural gas for its U.S. customers.    The company said potentially 500 mln cubic feet a day ofCanadian natural gas could be imported under the agreement.    It said the natural gas would be competitively priced butdid not refer to specific prices.    Pan-Alberta is owned by Nova <NVA.A.T> and Alberta EnergyCo, the company added. Reuter
SOVIET SAYS DATA SHARING WILL HELP FIND OIL A Soviet geologist said scientists needto coordinate data about onshore and offshore oil deposits tohelp identify global formations that would indicate otherpotential discoveries of oil and gas reserves.    Vladmir Vladiminovich Semenovich, the head of petroleumgeology at Moscow State University, told delegates at the WorldPetroleum Congress that exploration efficiency could also beimproved through new and more sophisticated technology.    "We should emphasize that when having the data aboutpetroleum distribution onshore and offshore, it is possible toclarify the idea of global regularities in oil and gasprospects," Semenovich said. "However, much work should be doneto coordinate data concerning the structure and oil and gasprospects in adjoining onshore and offshore basins."    Sharing the information could help geologists betterpredict regional trends and underground formations thatindicate the presence of oil or gas, he said.    Semenovich also said that existing estimates of thepotential oil and natural gas resources of the world may needto be revised upward as oil companies continue to examineunexplored regions.    The world, which has already produced 476 billion barrelsof oil and gas, has a current total of about 733 billionbarrels in proved reserves. Undiscovered resources areestimated at about 1.4 trillion barrels, or about half of thetotal ultimate reserves, Semenovich said.    "There are a lot of unstudied regions all over the worldand, as far as the already known basins, one continues to findadditional reserves," he said, noting that Antarctica has beenvirtually ignored. "The existing estimate of potentialresources of the world may need to be enlarged."    To find deeper and more expensive reserves, scientists willneed to use 3-D mapping of underground formations and laserspectrometry to measure bitumen in soils and plants among othertechniques, he said.    He estimated that continental slopes contain about 10 to 13pct of all offshore reserves.    Semenovich also said that virtually all of the total oiland gas resources now estimated to exist in the world would bediscovered and placed in production during the next 50 years.    After his speech, Semenovich told Reuters that Soviet oilproduction was increasing. "The difficulties of 1985 have beenovercome and we're now back to normal production," he said.    The Soviet Union, the world's largest producer of oil, hadexperienced drilling and technical problems that cut totalliquids production from 12.45 mln barrels a day in 1984 to 12.1mln barrels a day in 1985. Last year, the Soviets produced anestimated 12.3 mln barrels.    When asked about the recent reopening and testing of a coalgasification project in Soviet Central Asia, Semenovich saidthe project was important because of the lack of oil reservesin the region.    Semenovich declined to identify at what level of world oilprices the coal gasification process would become economicagain. "It's too expensive for the time being," Semenovichsaid.    "Theoretical development is underway and tests are beingrun. For the moment, coal gasification is a very small part ofthe energy industry," he said. Reuter
NORTH AMERICAN GAS MARKET RECOVERY YEARS AWAY Better times for the hard hitnatural gas industry remains two to three years away as aseemingly intractable supply bubble continues to depress salesand prices, industry officials said.    An uncertain regulatory environment, disputes over Canadianpricing policies and unusually warm winters are working againsta quick recovery in the sector, a number of corporate andgovernment speakers told an energy conference here.    "We see a tough, tough short-term market, both as to priceand volume," said Michael Phelps, vice president of <WestcoastTransmission Co Ltd>, a major Canadian natural gas carrier.    But Phelps predicted a fall in U.S. supply -- caused by asharp drop in exploration -- and a slight demand increaseshould help to burn off the excess supply by 1990.    As a result, Canadian gas exports to the U.S. market shouldrise to up to 1.5 trillion cubic feet a year by the end of thedecade, nearly double 1986's total.    The health of the Canadian industry is heavily dependent onthe U.S. market where nearly one third of Canada's gasproduction is sent.    Cuba Wadlington, a vice president at Northwest PipelineCorp of Salt Lake City, shared the view that markets could bein balance by 1990.    He said while North American demand for natural gas hasflattened at about 18 trillion cubic feet a year, a return tomore colder winters in the next few years could quickly tightensupplies.    "Things are clearly working towards a shrinking of thebubble," Wadlington told Reuters in an interview.    However, recent decisions by the U.S. Federal EnergyRegulatory Commission (FERC) were sharply criticized byCanadian delegates who suggested the moves could prevent thecountry from participating in the market's recovery.    The key dispute, known as the as billed issue, involves aruling last December by FERC which effectively bars U.S.pipeline companies and consumers from paying certain Canadianshipping expenses.    The Canadian government believes the ruling could severelyweaken the country's gas producers. "Besides theextra-territorial effect, there is the potential that Conadianproducers and consumers may end up subsidizing the cost oftransportation services originally incurred on behalf of U.S.customers," said Robert Skinner, an assistant deputy minister inCanada's energy department.    But FERC Chairman Martha Hesse told the conference theruling was really intended "to assure equal, fair and opencompetition in the pricing of natural gas sold within ourcountry -- whatever the source of the gas."    Hesse maintained Canadian gas was crucial to the emergenceof a freely competitive, continent-wide, energy market.    Speaking to concerns in Canada that the U.S. is seeking tolimit Canadian gas shipments, Hesse said such a move would workagainst the long-term interest of American consumers. "We trulyconstitute a North American market," she said. "Natural gasmoving through pipelines recognizes no boundries." Reuter
OFFSHORE OIL DRILLING MOVING INTO DEEPER WATERS Offshore drilling for oil and gas willbe moving into deeper and deeper waters, according to Ronald L.Geer, a consultant with Shell Oil Co. and president of theMarine Technology Society.     Geer told a press conference at the Offshore TechnologyConference that the technology existed to drill exploratorywells in up to 10,000 feet of water.     But he added that as the industry moves more and more tofloating systems as opposed to fixed bottom supportedstructures, the financial risks involved were greater.     He said such projects involved six to nine year timeframes, and there was a "reluctance for people to stick theirnecks too far out."     Shell holds the world record for the deepest exploratorywell, at 6,900 feet, in the Wilmington Canyon in the Atlanticoffshore New Jersey in 1984.     The company is currently drilling a 6,700 foot well in theAtwater Valley in the Gulf of Mexico offshore Louisiana.     Meanwhile, Brazil's Petrobras set a world record forunderwater production when they brought a well in 1,350 feet ofwater offshore Rio de Janeiro state into production in January.     Geer said the industry was particularly interested in theGreen Canyon field offshore Louisiana where a number ofcompanies, including Shell, a unit of Royal Dutch/Shell <RD>,Dupont Co's <DD> Conoco Inc, USX Corp's <X> Marathon Oil Co,Standard Oil Co <SRD> and <Placid Oil Co>, are working, many ofthem testing new deep-water technologies.     Of particular interest is the controversial Penrod-72system being operated by the Dallas-based Hunt brothers wholast year placed Placid Oil under bankruptcy court protectionin order to avoid foreclosures on its valuable oil properties.     They have been seeking the right to use assets to drilloil wells in the Green Canyon through Penrod, arguing thatcontinued development of the project is essential to theirability to get out of their financial crisis.     Earlier this month, the Hunts were granted permission by abankruptcy court to pursue the Green Canyon project.     The Penrod system involves a controversial floatingproduction platform with well heads sitting 1,350 feet down onthe ocean floor. Some 24 wells will be attached to thewellhead, with one satellite well sitting in a record 1,700feet of water.     Geer said he could not comment on the Penrod project,other than to note that it involves so many new technologies,it might have a problem fitting all the pieces together withina specific time frame.     He also said he believed the potential production from theproject could be in line with what the Hunt Brothers haveprojected.     The Hunts' creditor banks have contended the Hunts haveexaggerated the potential of the project.     "They're in the ballpark," he said, of the numbers, addingthat he did not have enough information to comment further. Reuter
GAS GROWTH SEEN HURT BY REGULATORY UNCERTAINTY Demand for natural gas has failed togrow in proportion to the decline in oil deliveries because ofconcerns over unresolved regulatory issues in the UnitedStates, said industry analysts and gas utility company sources.    "Natural gas is not free to compete," said Larry Makovich,director of utilities service at Data Resources Inc, "problemson pipeline open access and take-or-pay liabilities still weighheavily on end-users' decision to switch to natural gas."    A manager with an East Coast gas distribution company,agreed that reluctance among end-users often stemmed from fearof unresolved regulatory issues.    "The fact that at the federal level open access is not yetfirmly in place threatens to impede free flow of natural gasfrom producers to consumers," he said.     Michael German, an economist with the American GasAssociation, said while a significant amount of gas was nowreplacing oil in dual-fuel boilers, the progress of expandingthe marketshare of gas was slow. First quarter natural gasconsumption data is not available until June.    In the first three months of 1987, residual fuel demandfell by an average of 55,000 barrels per day, according to theAmerican Petroleum Institute. Natural gas, however, was notable to take full advantage of the decline in oil consumption.    AGA's German said that while industrial consumers wereconcerned with regulatory issues in their long-range capitalinvestment decisions, in the dual-fuel boiler market relied onspot purchases.    "With all the capability of switching (from oil to naturalgas) already there, price of the fuel is the only concern," hesaid, adding that compared with the same period last year,January natural gas price at burner tip is 16 pct lower forindustrial users and 32 pct lower for utilities.    German attributed the sluggish performance of natural gasto lower demand in the utility sector as a whole.    "March was warmer than normal, which cut down gasconsumption not only in home heating but also in electricitygeneration," he said.     In March, according to API monthly statistics, residualfuel deliveries fell by 13.6 pct to 1.2 mln barrels per dayfrom the same period a year ago.    While API specifically mentioned lower natural gas priceshad put residual fuel at a price disadvantage among electricutilities and industrial users, industry analysts believed therole of natural gas was over-stated.    Makovich of DRI noted much of the decline in oil in thefuel mix was taken up by new nuclear capacity coming on streamin the last few years.    Nuclear capacity rose nine pct in 1986, and he projectedthe same rate of growth for 1987 and 11 pct growth in 1988.     In contrast, oil and gas together represented only 15 pctof the fuel mix in 1986 and should decline to 13 pct by 1989,he said. Within this sector, gas share fell to 66 pct in 1986from 76 pct a year ago due to competition from falling oilprices, he added. But this year, gas was expected to recaptureonly two pct of the share, Makovich said.    Michael German of AGA agreed and said, "Nevertheless,outlet for several hundred billion cubic feet of gas a year issignificant in a glutted market." Reuter
COASTAL <CGP>, TRANSAMERICAN SETTLE GAS DISPUTE Coastal Corp and TransAmerican NaturalGas Corp have proposed settling more than four billion dlrs inlawsuits with an agreement for natural gas sales andtransportation between the two Texas firms, a lawyer forCoastal said.    The proposed settlement also provided for Coastal towithdraw its reorganization plan in TransAmerican's bankruptcyproceedings.    Thomas McDade, a lawyer for Coastal, said the settlementincluded a five-year agreement for TransAmerican to transportup to 100 mln cubic feet of natural gas daily from south Texasfields to major pipeline interchanges. TransAmerican will alsosell Coastal up to 125 mln cubic feet of gas at spot marketprices during the next 10 years.    McDade said Coastal would agree to support TransAmerican'splan of reorganization pending in federal bankruptcy court.    TransAmerican, a Houston-based natural gas production andpipeline company, had sued Coastal for 4.1 billion dlrsalleging that Coastal chairman Oscar Wyatt wrongly interferedwith TransAmerican's reorganization efforts. Coastal is one ofTransAmerican's unsecured creditors. Reuter
U.S. INTERIOR SECRETARY OPPOSES OIL IMPORT FEE U.S. Interior Secretary DonaldHodel said he does not support an oil import fee as a means tostimulate domestic oil and gas production.    "I am an advocate for incentives for exploration," Hodelsaid, but added, "I do not favor an oil import fee."    "It would inject the federal government so deeply back into the process, we would never get the government out again,and I think that would be in the long term disinterest of thenation," Hodel said in an address to a group of local businessexecutives.    Earlier today, Congressmen from oil producing statesintroduced a bill that would impose a fee on oil imports.    Hodel said he supports drilling incentives, such as repealof the Windfall Profits Tax and Fuel Use Act and deregulationof natural gas.    The secretary also said oil and gas exploration offshoreCalifornia and in the Artic National Wildlife Refuge isnecessary to prevent the U.S. from becoming too dependent onforeign supplies of oil for its energy needs.    Failure to approve such exploration, Hodel said, would leadto greater U.S. dependence on foreign sources of oil.    "In the next two to five years, no matter what we do today,we are very likely to find the U.S becoming 50 pct or moredependent on imports for its oil requirements," Hodel said.    If OPEC were to raise oil prices sharply, Congress wouldlikely act to have the federal government fix gasoline pricesand allocate supplies, Hodel said.    "If they allocate supplies you and I, in the sametwo-to-five year time frame, could well find ourselves sittingback in gas lines," Hodel said.    Exploration for oil and gas in offshore areas and in theArctic National Wildlife Refuge would not jeopardizeenvironmentally sensitive areas, Hodel said.    "We are convinced we can meet and resolve everyenvironmental concern that is raised," Hodel said. Reuter
GAS CARRIER ESCAPED GULF ATTACK LAST WEEK - LLOYDS The Panamanian liquified gas carrierNyhammer, 48,772 dwt, was attacked by an Iranian gunboat on May24, Lloyds Shipping Intelligence said.    One rocket was fired but missed.    The vessel subsequently arrived at its destination of RasTanura on May 25 and left this morning. REUTER
INDIA PLANS MORE BOMBAY OFFSHORE OIL WELLS India's state-owned Oil and Natural GasCommission (ONGC) plans to drill more wells in the Bombayoffshore area, where a well spudded in February this year gaveboth oil and gas, an ONGC spokesman said.    The exploratory well, spudded at a depth of 2,140 metres,yielded 2,000 barrels of oil and 180,000 cubic metres of gasper day, he said.    "The well, one of the four structures drilled in the area 80km north-west of Bombay, indicates good prospects of both oiland gas. We've decided to drill at least three more wells inthere before starting production on a commercial scale."    Production of Bombay High, part of the Bombay offshorefield, has stabilised at around 500,000 barrels per day for thelast two years.    ONGC produced 27.85 mln tonnes of crude in 1986/87 endingMarch, up from 27.51 the previous year. Bombay High accountedfor 20.61 mln tonnes, marginally up from 20.10 the year before.India's total oil output is around 30 mln tonnes.    ONGC has been exploring the Bombay offshore area, developedsince the late 1970s, for more oil as production from BombayHigh has reached a plateau. REUTER
U.S. GULF OF MEXICO RIG COUNT CLIMBS TO 38.9 PCT Utilization of offshore mobile rigs inthe Gulf of Mexico climbed by 2.1 pct last week to 38.9 pct,reflecting a total of 91 working rigs, Offshore Data Servicessaid.    One year ago, the Gulf of Mexico utilization rate was 32.5pct. Offshore Data Services said some drilling contractors hadreported recent increases of about 1,000 dlrs a day on largejackup rigs, which now command rates of 11,000 to 12,000 dlrs aday.    In the European/Mediterranean area the rig utilization raterose 0.6 pct to 53.6 pct, against 67.3 pct one year ago.    Worldwide rig utilization rose by 1.2 pct to 57.7 pct,reflecting a net increase of eight working rigs. Offshore DataServices said a total of 419 rigs were in use worldwide and 307were idled last week. Reuter
BAKER HUGHES' <BHI> U.S. RIG COUNT FALLS TO 758 The U.S. drilling rig count fell by fourlast week to a total of 758, against 723 working rigs at thistime last year, Baker Hughes Inc said.    In Canada, the weekly rig count rose 19 to 100, compared to46 working rigs last year.    Among individual states, the steepest declines were inOklahoma and Louisiana which lost eight and seven,respectively. Drilling increases were reported by Michigan, upby five rigs, and Ohio and Pennsylvania which each rose bythree. Baker Hughes said the total of 758 working rigs in theUnited States included 84 rigs working in offshore waters. Reuter
SANTOS TO ACQUIRE TOTAL EXPLORATION AUSTRALIA Santos Ltd <STOS.S> said it would buy<Total Exploration Australia Pty Ltd> from <Total Holdings(Australia) Pty Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Total-CieFrancaise des Petroles <TPN.PA>.    Total Exploration had interests ranging from 18.75 to 25pct in four blocks in permit ATP259P in south-west Queensland,Santos said in a statement.    The Santos group stakes will rise to between 52.5 and 70pct of the four ATP259P blocks as a result of the purchase. Theprice was not disclosed.    Santos said a number of oil and gas fields have beendiscovered in the Total Exploration areas and that it regardsthem as having very good prospects for further discoveries.    Total's reserves amount to 75 billion cubic feet of gas and5.5 mln barrels of oil and condensate, it said.    It said it will promote a vigorous exploration program inthe areas for the rest of 1987 and in the future.    The acquisition is the latest in a series by Santos as partof a program to expand from its origins in the South AustralianCooper Basin. REUTER
TEXAS EASTERN <TEX> UNIT FILES FOR NEW RATES Algonquin Gas Transmission Co, a unit ofTexas Eastern Corp, said it has filed for Federal EnergyRegulatory Commission approval of new rate schedules.    It said it has also filed for proposed service agreementsfor interruptible and firm transportation service.    Algonquin said the filing would allow its customers to moveavailable spot gas supplies to price competitive markets. Reuter
AMOCO <AN> SAYS DOME <DMP> BUY GOOD FOR CANADA Amoco Corp's wholly owned AmocoCanada Petroleum Co Ltd said its proposed 5.22-billion-Canadian-dlr acquisition of Dome Petroleum Ltd will benefitCanada just like the foreign investment that made possiblecommercial development of Alberta's oilsands.    Amoco Canada president T. Don Stacy told an oilsandsconference that "Amoco Canada has presented the solution to theDome problem, and we're investing our confidence, dollars anddetermination to make that solution work."    The Amoco buyout of debt-burdened Dome has angered Canadiannationalists, who want a Canadian buyer for Dome.    Stacy described Amoco Canada's previously reported shareoffer proposal as a chance to increase Canadian ownership ofthe country's oil and gas industry, now at about 50 pct.    He reiterated that Amoco planned virtually no layoffs ofDome employees. He also reaffirmed that Amoco would reinvest inAmoco Canada-Dome properties all available cash flow for fiveyears after the acquisition. Reuter
PREMIERS, GOVERNORS PUSH EAST COAST DEVELOPMENT The premiers of Canada'seastern provinces and the governors of America's New Englandstates urged development of Canada's offshore oil and gasfields and construction of a pipeline from Nova Scotia to NewEngland.    Newfoundland premier Brian Peckford, speaking to the annualconference of New England and eastern Canadian leaders, saiddevelopment would prevent a repetition of the energy crisis ofthe early 1970s.    The group also agreed to discuss energy and security ofsupply next spring.    Drilling off Canada's Atlantic coast has stalled sinceworld oil prices began tumbling two years ago. The resolutionsupporting a natural gas pipeline from Nova Scotia to NewEngland has been on the agenda for six years, and this is thesixth year it has been approved.    The two-day conference ends tomorrow. Reuter
WESTCOAST <WTC> TO ACQUIRE AGIP PROPERTIES WestcoastTransmission Co Ltd said it agreed to acquire the WesternCanada oil and gas reserves and properties of AGIP Canada Ltd,a subsidiary of AGIP SpA, part of Italy's ENI group, for 54 mlnCanadian dlrs.    At the end of 1986, AGIP Canada reported proven andprobable reserves of 4.2 mln barrels of crude oil and naturalgas liquids and 22.7 billion cubic feet of natural gas. AGIPCanada also holds 176,000 net exploratory acres in WesternCanada. Its properties produce about 1,100 barrels of oil aday.    The deal is subject to approval by both companies'directors.    Westcoast said the acquisition would enable it to applymore than 150 mln dlrs of accumulated tax pools of AGIP CanadaLtd to enhance after-tax cash flow from the acquiredproperties.    AGIP Canada said it would retain offshore explorationblocks in Labrador, a gold mine in Yukon Territory and uraniuminterests in Saskatchewan. Reuter
MOBIL <MOB> HAS NORTH SEA NATURAL GAS FIND Mobil Corp said the 49/28-14 wildcatwell in Block 49/28 of the British North Sea flowed 50.6 mlncubic feet of natural gas per day from depths of 7,742 to 7,777feet.    The company said it has a 23.33 pct interest and otherinterest holders include Atlantic Richfield Co <ARC>, Sun Co<SUN> and Deminex AG 10 pct. Reuter
PAN-ALBERTA/UNITED GAS SETTLEMENT APPROVED Pan-Alberta Gas Ltd said its1986 proposed settlement with United Gas Pipe Line Co, ofHouston, received unconditional approval by the U.S. FederalEnergy Regulator Commission.    Pan-Alberta said the approved deal authorized terms of atwo-year interim contract amendment, cash payments andtransportation credits for Pan-Alberta's customers, minimumyearly natural gas takes by United and a two-year commodityprice. United will pay Pan-Alberta producers about 50 mln dlrsover the interim period and take at least an average 40 mlncubic feet a day of gas, Pan-Alberta said. Reuter
CHEYENNE <CHYN.O> BUYS INTERESTS IN PROPERTIES Cheyenne Resources Inc said itpurchased interests in four producing oil and gas propertiesfor 2,240,000 shares of the company's restricted stock.    The largest interest was 25 pct of an oil and gas well inWeld County, Colo, the company said. Cheyenne said it had fivepct or less interest in the three other properties.    Cheyenne said it should realized 10,000 dlrs net incomemonthly at the properties' current production levels. Reuter
BROOKLYN UNION<BU> SEEN HURT BY PIPELINE CLOSURE Brooklyn Union Gas Co, a New York gasutility, will see its gas costs up sharply as a result ofTransco Energy Co's <E> decision to close its pipelines totransport spot gas sales, energy industry analysts said.    Brooklyn Union, the fourth largest gas utility in theUnited States, purchased 36 pct of its supplies on the spot, ornon-contract, market in 1986, and the proportion of spotsupplies was estimated much higher in the five months of 1987,analysts said.    Texas Eastern pipelines <TET>, the other competingpipeline, to deliver spot gas from producing areas in the Southclosed its gate station for summer, and Brooklyn Union hasrelied entirely on Transco for spot supplies.     In the month of May, Brooklyn Union paid about two dlrsper mln British Thermal Unit for spot gas, while contract gascosts four to five dlrs per mln BTU, industry sources said.    Transco announced yesterday it would no longer provide openaccess to transport spot natural gas to its customers for fearof accumulating more take-or-pay liabilities.    Take-or-pay contracts oblige pipelines to pay producers forgas even if delivery is not taken by its customers.    Brooklyn Union will continue receiving a small amount ofsupplies from minor fields under a grandfather clause, aBrooklyn Union official said.    Foster Corwith, gas analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds, saidmost of the rising cost to Booklyn Union will be passed throughto rate payers.    While net effect on the company will not be known forseveral months because of the time lag in deferred earnings,end-users, especially residential and commercial customers,will end up paying more for gas, he said.    Because the closure takes place in summer months when gasdemand is at seasonal low, the impact on cash flow would besmall, Curt Launer, natural gas analyst with Donaldson LufkinJenrette, said.    If the situation persists into winter heating season, highcost gas could cut in the company's profits, he said.    Gas utilities along eastern seaboard relying on Transco forspot gas, such as North Carolina Natural Gas Co <NCNG>,Piedmont Natural Gas Co <PNY>, will face the same high costfactor as Brooklyn Union, Steve Richards, a supply manager withend users supply system, a Houston based natural gas brokeringfirm, said.    "But these companies are not unwitting victims of thetake-or-pay dispute between Transco and producers," he said.    Distributors have turned a deaf ear to Transco's requestfor an inventory charge, which reserves the pipeline facilityfor spot gas to be delivered to these companies, he said.    Without spot supplies, the high cost of system gas willthreaten to drive away large customers capable of shifting toalternative fuels, he said.    In absence of any guidelines on inventory charges from theFederal Energy Regulatory Commission, the matter is beingnegotiated between pipelines and customers, Richards said.    Now that Transco has refused to transport cheap spot gasfor them, these distributors are likely to be more conciliatoryon the inventory charge, he said.    "Cool heads will prevail," DLJ's Launer said, " but it maytake a while."        Reuter
ALLEGHENY <ALGH.O> FORMING SUBSIDIARY Allegheny and Western Energy Corp saidit was forming a subsidiary to market gas to smaller users inWest Virginia.    The company also said it completed negotiations to sellbetween 10 and 12 mln cubic feet of gas per day to a large,unspecified East Coast utility.    Interstate markets will become part of the subsidiary'soperations, the company said. Reuter
SAUDI OIL RESERVES RISE DESPITE HIGHER OUTPUT Proven oil and gas deposits in SaudiArabia increased in 1986 despite higher oil output, accordingto the kingdom's main producing company, Aramco.    Recoverable oil reserves in Aramco fields rose to 167billion barrels by the end the year from 166.5 billion in 1985,while gas reserves jumped by 7.7 pct to 135.8 trillion cu ftfrom 126.1 trillion, the company's annual report said.    Aramco, responsible for all Saudi production except about200,000 barrels per day (bpd) in the Neutral Zone between SaudiArabia and Kuwait, increased production to 4.69 mln barrels perday in 1986 from 3.04 mln barrels a year earlier.    Most of 1986 was a virtual free-for-all in production, asOPEC members abandoned restraint in an effort to recapturetheir share of the market. In the process, prices collapsedfrom about 28 dlrs a barrel to below nine dlrs, until theorganisation decided to cut production again from lastSeptember onwards.    Saudi output in 1985 had been the lowest since the 1960s.    Production of natural gas liquids in 1986 declined slightlyto 304,178 bpd from 316,310, said the report, carried on theofficial Saudi Press Agency.    The increase in reserves came despite a sharp cut in thenumber of wells Aramco drilled to 33 in 1986 from 103 in 1985.    Aramco's only refinery, at Ras Tannurah, processed 142.44mln barrels (390,246 bpd) of crude last year. The plant wasupgraded to a capacity of 530,000 bpd during the year, enablingit to supply 50 pct of local demand for oil products, thereport said.    The country's other five, smaller refineries -- owned byanother state-owned oil organisation, Petromin -- producedaround 750,000 bpd last year.    Sulphur production rose to 1.23 mln tonnes in 1986 from998,707 tonnes in 1985. During the year the company beganoperating a sulphur granule plant with capacity of 4,000 tonnesper day, the report said.    Aramco said it awarded 1,303 contracts last year worth 1.4billion riyals -- about 370 mln dlrs. REUTER
N-D RESOURCES <NUDY.O> AGREES TO ACQUIRE ATOKA N-D Resources Inc said itagreed in principle to issue an undetermined number of sharesto Recovery Resources Corp, Bahrain, in order to acquireRecovery's Atoka Gas Gathering Systems Inc.    Atoka currently operates a 20-mile natural gas pipeline of46 miles in length in southeastern Oklahoma. Reuter
TENNECO TO BECOME OPEN ACCESS TRANSPORTER OF NAT Dart Group Corp <DARTA.O> said it hasno comment on reports the company has been accumulating sharesof Dayton Hudson Corp.    Dayton Hudson said in a letter to shareholders it told an"aggressive buyer" of its stock that it does not want to beacquired.    Wall Street sources have identified the buyer as Dart,which earlier this year was thwarted in a takeover attempt forthe now privately held Supermarkets General Corp. Reuter
TENNECO <TGT> TO TRANSPORT GAS ON OPEN ACCESS Tenneco Inc said Tennessee Gas PipelineCo, its largest interstate natural gas pipeline, will transportnatural gas under the open access rules of the Federal EnergyRegulatory Commission, FERC.    In open access, gas pipelines serve purely as a transportcompany, moving gas from suppliers to customers. Pipelines alsotransport its own gas to customers.    Earlier this week, Transco Energy Co <T> rejected the FERCguidelines, saying it would not offer open access until theregulatory body offers a solution to the exposure it faces forgas it has bought but could not sell.    The exposure faced by the industry stems from take or paycontracts, under which pipelines bought gas on long-termcontracts they could not sell. The problem grew severe ascustomers won cheaper sources of gas because of open access.    Some industry analysts speculated earlier this week thatTenneco might follow Transco's lead and close its pipelines toopen-access because of the take-or-pay issue.    But Tenneco today said open access "is one of the stepsFERC is taking to restructure the gas industry in the U.S. FERCis moving the industry through this restructuring now, evenbefore all transitional problems are solved."    A spokesman said Tenneco faces 1.7 billion dlrs in exposureunder the take-or-pay contracts, but he had no specific figurefor Tennessee Gas, which runs 2,000 miles of pipelines fromLouisiana and Texas up to New England.    "We remain convinced that the most critical transitionalissue facing the industry--take-or-pay--must be resolved byFERC in the near future.    "A failure to do so could have grave consequences for theindustry's continued ability to provide its customers withreliable natural gas," said Tennessee Gas Transmission Copresident R.C. Thomas. Reuter
INDONESIA FINDS NEW OFFSHORE OIL AND GAS RESOURCES The Indonesian state-owned oil companyPertamina has found new offshore oil and gas resources in EastAceh, on the western tip of northern Sumatra, a companyspokesman said.    The spokesman said the discovery was made at the GOS IA-1offshore exploratory well about 38 kms east of Langsa in Aceh.    "Oil and gas are found in sand layers at the depth of 2,300metres within the Baong formation," he said.    He said preliminary tests showed that the well could flowoil at the rate of 1,320 barrels a day with 50 degrees API at20 degrees centigrade through a 5/8 inch choke.    "The well also flows natural gas at the rate of 12 mlnstandard cubic feet a day," he added.    GOS IA-1 well, located at a water depth of 41 metres, wasdrilled under a production sharing contract between Pertaminaand Japex North Sumatra Ltd, each having 50 pct shares.    "Petroleum operations are to be carried out by Pertamina asoperator through a joint operating body established by the twocompanies," the Pertamina spokesman stated.    The contract covers the Gebang block contract area. The twocompanies have previously completed the drilling of GOS IIA-1exploratory well, around 14 kms south of GOS IA-1. REUTER
BROOKLYN UNION <BU> TO BUY GAS FROM SHELL OIL Brooklyn Union Gas Co said it hascontracted to purchase up to 60 mln cubic feet of natural gasper day from Shell Oil Co, a Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD> <SC>subsidiary.    Brooklyn Union said the long-term contract will cover about15 pct of its total supplies.    A spokesman said Shell and the utility agreed to notdisclose the length of the contract or the price of the gas,which he described as competitive with a market sensitiveescalation formula.       Brooklyn Union said the gas from Shell Oil will replaceabout 25 pct of the gas previously supplied by Transco EnergyInc's <E> Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corp subsidiary.    The utility said Transcontinental will transport the gasbeing purchased from Shell Oil, possibly beginning as soon asNovember 1. Reuter
NUI <NUI> MAY SPIN OFF NONUTILITY OPERATIONS NUI Corp said it is studyingthe feasibility of spinning off nonutility subsidiaries toshareholders.    The company said its propane disution, natural gas spotmarketing, data processing, oil and natural gas exploration andproduction, natural gas gathering and underground pipereplacement businesses had sales for the year ended September30 of about 74 mln dlrs, or about 25 pct of total companysales.  NUI's major subsidiary is utility Elizabethtown Gas. Reuter
