OUTOKUMPU TO CLOSE NICKEL REFINERY DURING SUMMER The Finnish metal and mining groupOutokumpu Oy said it will close its nickel refinery atHarjavalta in central Finland for six weeks in July and Augustthis year due to current low prices on the nickel market.    "We consider nickel prices as bad at the moment, althoughthey have been rising slightly since January," refinery salesmanager Pekka Purra said.    He said the closure will mean a drop in production of 3,000tonnes in 1987 from last year's output of 17,800 tonnes. Theclosure was also a move to cut labour costs as no extra staffhave to be employed during holidays to keep the plant open. Reuter
SOVIET FIRM SAYS TALKS ON FOR PHILIPPINE MINE Preliminary talks are on between twostate-owned Philippine banks and Soviet metal trading andequipment sales company Tsvetmetpromexport on rescuing NonocMining and Industrial Corp (NMIC) which operates thePhilippines' only nickel refinery, a Soviet official said.    G.I. Valentchits, Deputy Trade Minister at the Sovietembassy, told Reuters a report earlier this week thatTsvetmetpromexport had asked the Philippine government whetherit could help rehabilitate or operate NMIC was incorrect.    "It is the other way round," Valentchits said.    He said the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) andthe Philippine National Bank (PNB), which own NMIC, hadapproached the Soviet state-owned firm in August last year.    "We studied the question and asked the banks in which fieldand what area they can help in the project," Valentchits said.    He said there had been no reply yet from NMIC and the talkswere "only just initial."    NMIC President Arthur Aguilar and other company officialswere not available for comment.    Manila banking sources said the situation was serious atNMIC, set up by DBP and PNB in August 1984 after the two banksforeclosed on the assets of Marinduque Mining and IndustrialCorp over a 17 billion peso obligation.    The bankers said NMIC itself has recently filed with theSecurities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for placing thecompany under receivership and the suspension of its debtpayments in order to protect it from threats of foreclosure.    Business Day newspaper said the latest credits extended toNMIC include a 127 mln dlr loan, with Chemical Bank as the leadagent.    The newspaper said another 33 mln dlr loan was lead managedby Citicorp.    It said the government's privatisation program has listedNMIC at a price of at least 700 mln dlrs, adding that foreigninvestors were wary of taking over the ailing nickel firm.    The bankers said NMIC was currently burdened with debts ofat least 15.8 billion pesos and is facing 10 civil lawsuits forforeclosures from major creditors.    The Business Bulletin newspaper said the firm had assetstotalling 12.2 billion pesos, while DBP and PNB exposures withthe firm were estimated at 14.9 billion pesos.    NMIC has not operated its plant in the southern Philippinessince March 1986 after workers struck demanding payment ofsalaries delayed because of the firm's financial difficulties.    The firm produced 1,863 tonnes of nickel in the first twomonths of 1986, compared with 2,364 tonnes in the same periodin 1985. The mine's capacity is 2,000 tonnes a month. Reuter
SUMITOMO MINING <SMIT.T> RAISES NICKEL OUTPUT Sumitomo Metal Mining Co said it willraise its monthly nickel output to around 1,750 tonnes fromApril 1 from 1,650 now because of increased domestic demand,mainly from stainless steel makers.    Sumitomo produced 1,800 tonnes of a nickel a month untilend-1986, but cut output in January because of stagnant demand,a company official said.    Calendar 1987 production is likely to fall to around 20,000tonnes from 22,000 in 1986 as a result of the first quarterreduction, he said.    Sumitomo is Japan's only nickel producer. REUTER
NICKEL PRICES UNLIKELY TO RISE MUCH - SHEARSON Nickel prices are unlikely to risesignificantly from current levels unless further steps aretaken to reduce production, Shearson Lehman Brothers said inits quarterly nickel market report.    The market had recovered slightly to around 1.72 dlrs a lbyesterday from its four year low of 1.55 dlrs in early January,due to the absence of Soviet nickel cathode deliveries, butShearson sees Soviet shipments soon returning to last year'sbuoyant levels, which should ease current tightness.    Output reductions by producers will take effect later thisyear but are likely to be offset by increases elsewhere.    Shearson said the nickel market will be virtually inbalance during 1987, with total non-Socialist world demand at556,000 tonnes, compared with an estimated 544,000 tonnes in1986, production at 505,000 tonnes (504,000) and imports fromSocialist countries at 47,000 tonnes (50,000).    It forecast prices will edge higher during the year from afirst quarter average of 1.67 dlrs a lb up to 1.77 dlrs in thelast quarter. The year's average will be around 1.72 dlrs a lbcompared with 1.76 dlrs in 1986, using London Metal Exchangecash metal prices in dollar terms and assuming an average 1987sterling exchange rate of 1.55 dlrs. REUTER
