FINLAND REVISES CURRENCY BASKET The Bank of Finland said it has revisedthe weightings in its currency basket with effect from today.Weightings  match the respective country's share in Finland'sforeign trade.    Weights in percentages compared with former weights.    Dollar  9.0 (8.8)    Sterling 14.3 (13.8)    Swedish crown 20.4 (20.6)    Norwegian crown 5.2 (5.2)    Danish crown 5.2 (5.3)    German mark 19.3 (19.6)REUTER^M
 NORWAY CENTRAL BANK SELLS CROWNS TO EASE UPWARD  The Bank of Japan has become increasinglyworried about a possible crash of high-flying financialmarkets, Bank of Japan sources said.    "We're afraid that someday the bubble will burst and thatthe deflationary impact on the economy will be very disastrous,"one source said.    They said the central bank has embarked on a delicatepolicy -- it wants to deflate the speculation that has pumpedup prices sharply in recent months without bursting the bubble.    Stock prices plunged 393.31 points today, extending thesharp declines of earlier this month, as the market speculatedthat interest rates would rise.    The Bank of Japan bought 100 billion yen in certificates ofdeposit (CDs) via repurchase agreements today to show itsdetermination to maintain an easy money policy, central bankofficials said.    Today's CD buying operation was designed to reassure themarket the Bank has not changed its policy, a senior centralBank official told Reuters.    "There is a possibility that a deflationary impact wouldpermeate the economy if the prices of existing assetscollapsed," the Bank of Japan said earlier this month in itsannual economic report.    Such a possibility has been heightened by what the Banksees as excessive speculation in stock, bond and land prices.    Over the last two years, the stock market average hasdoubled, driving price/earnings ratios to over 70, comparedwith about 15 on Wall Street. Bond yields have dropped sharply,while land prices in Tokyo have soared.    The excessive speculation means the markets areincreasingly out of touch with economic reality and thus morevulnerable, one central bank source said.    A collapse now could rob businessmen and consumers of whatlittle confidence they have in the economy after theyen-induced recession of the past year, private economistssaid.    Some hard-pressed exporters already make greater profitsthrough financial dealings than from their basic businesses,they said.    "There seems to be an accelerated demand for money tosupport transactions in shares, bonds, land and other existingassets which has little bearing on value added and therefore onGNP," the Bank of Japan said in its report.    The increased inclination of investors to seek capitalgains and the accompanying rise in prices of existing assetscould have dangerous implications for the economy, it added.    In the Bank's view, a major reason behind skyrocketingprices was its own easy monetary policy and the belief in themarket that interest rates were heading inexorably lower.    Mindful of the potential inflationary dangers posed byexcessive liquidity, the Central Bank's board recently decidedit had to spell out clearly to the markets that a furtherdiscount rate cut was not in the offing, one source said.    But the bank had to do that without tightening monetarypolicy and running the risk of a market collapse.    This was achieved partly by a rise in short-term interestrates, which Bank sources ascribed to seasonal pressures and toa change in market expectations.    While denying the bank was tightening monetary policy, asenior source welcomed the change in market expectations.    The source acknowledged the shift may have been causedpartly by the decision to press commercial banks to limitlending in the July/September period. Faster than expectedeconomic growth and a strong dollar also played a part.    In the longer run, the Central Bank is counting on agradual upturn in the economy to draw liquidity from thefinancial markets into productive areas like capital spending,one Bank of Japan economist said.    But while it waits for that to occur over the next sixmonths, it may have to avoid any overt tightening of monetarypolicy that could collapse the market and lead to recession. REUTER
NORWAY CENTRAL BANK SELLS CROWNS TO EASE PRESSURE Norway's central bank sold crowns in theopen market in a bid to ease strong upward pressure on thecurrency, which threatens to rise above set levels in a basketof currencies, dealers said.    The central bank declined comment, but dealers noted thebank had also intervened and sold small amounts of crowns onFriday. The bank is committed to defending the crown at certainlevels in a basket of 14 trade-weighted currencies.    "They've been in again this morning, selling piecemealwhenever they think necessary," a senior dealer at an Oslo bank,who declined to be identified, told Reuters.    The crown's index is currently around 109.60 in the basket-- close to its upper limit of 109.50 which the central bank iscommitted to defending.    A low index figure indicates a high value for the crown.The limit at the other end of the scale is set at 114.50.    The crown has been bolstered by high Norwegian interestrates, currently around 16 pct in the money market, and betterthan expected economic indicators which showed a sharplyreduced foreign trade deficit in May and inflation stabilisingaround the current annual rate of 10 pct. REUTER
