FORMER N.Z. PREMIER CALLS FOR CHEAPER CURRENCY Former Prime Minister RobertMuldoon, an outspoken advocate of a managed float for the N.Z.Dollar, said the currency is at least 10 pct overvalued.    Muldoon said in a speech last night the exchange rateshould be around 48 U.S. Cents instead of the current 57 cents.    "A reasonable value for the New Zealand dollar would bebetween 10 and 15 pct less and nearer 15 than 10. Perhapsaround about 48 cents," he said.    The Labour Party government removed exchange controls andfloated the dollar two years ago when it was worth 44 cents.    Muldoon has no rank in the opposition National Party, andparty leaders, with an eye to general elections to be held bySeptember, have rejected his calls for a managed float.    He said the dollar was high because of "grossly excessive"interest rates for government stock.    "I know of no other country which is implementing such afree floating policy," he added. "There is widespread agreementinternationally that we have no alternative to floatingcurrencies in the short to medium term. But we need moreeffective methods of managing them so as to limit thevolatility which has caused so much concern and damage." REUTER
U.S. CORPORATE FINANCE - NEW ZEALAND DLR FRNS Floating-rate notes denominated in aforeign currency, a relatively new wrinkle on Wall Street, willprobably be issued infrequently because the so-called "windowof opportunity" opens and closes quickly, traders say.    "In just two days we had as many issues. As a result, themarket became glutted," said one trader.    He said the window depends more on supply than on foreignexchange or interest rate risk, at least for the moment."Obviously, currency risk is important. But there is a limitednumber of investors right now for the paper," he said.    On Thursday, Bear, Stearns and Co sole-managed a 100 mlnNew Zealand dlr offering of three-year floating-rate notesissued by Ford Motor Credit Co, a unit of Ford Motor Co <F>.    The initial rate for the notes will be set on April 15, andquarterly after that, at 200 basis points below the 90-day NewZealand bank bill rate. They are non-callable for life.    This followed by a week another Bear Stearns-led offeringof the same amount of New Zealand dollar notes for Dow ChemicalCo <DOW>. The initial rate was also to be initially set onApril 15, and quarterly after that, at 340 basis points belowthe same 90-day New Zealand rate.    Because the Dow Chemical notes carried an interest ratefloor of 17 pct, the issue saw strong investor demand,underwriters said.    But the Ford Credit notes and Friday's offering of 130 mlnNew Zealand dlrs of floating-rate notes due 1990 issued byGeneral Electric Co's <GE> General Electric Credit Corp viaPrudential-Bache Securities Inc, did not have such a floor.    "Obviously, the two firms did not want to issue floatersand face the risk of New Zealand rates falling sharply," anunderwriter away from the syndicates said. He and others notedthat the New Zealand 90-day rate was 27 pct late last week.    An underwriter familiar with the Dow Chemical deal pointedout that because of the interest rate and currency swaps Dowdid, the issuer felt comfortable setting a rate floor.    Domestic offerings of foreign currency denominated datefirst surfaced in Fall 1985. By using currency and rate swaps,companies can sell debt that pays a high interest rate in aforeign currency like Australian or New Zealand dollars. Butthe issuers actually realize savings on borrowing costs.    "I would say that every company which issued foreigncurrency debt saved some basis points when compared tosame-maturity plain vanilla U.S. issues," an analyst said.    Investors, mainly institutions, were attracted to the earlyissues because of the high interest rates. They were willing toabsorb foreign currency risk until mid-1986, when sharp slidesposted by the Australian and New Zealand dollars brought suchissuance to a quick halt.    It was not until late last year, after the currenciesstabilized, that companies again started issuing debtdenominated in Australian and New Zealand dollars.    But many investors have still shied away from the debt,remembering the mid-1986 downturn of the Australian and NewZealand dollars, analysts noted.    To attract some of those investors back to the fold,underwriters like Bear Stearns decided to structure the foreigncurrency issues as floating rate debt, sources said.    This occurred against a backdrop of uncertainty over thecourse of U.S. interest rates for the intermediate term, andpredictions by a number of economists that Treasury yieldswould rise in the second half of the year, the sources noted.    A Bear Stearns officer said more than half of the FordCredit notes were sold by late Friday afternoon, the second dayof offering. "That is quicker than some recent fixed-rate NewZealand dollar note issues," he said.    However, underwriters away from the Bear Stearns syndicatesaid the issue may have sold even faster if Prudential-Bachedid not offer the General Electric Credit notes on Friday.    They pointed out that the Ford notes were rated A-1 byMoody's Investors and AA-minus by Standard and Poor's, whilethe General Electric notes, which had the same interest rateterms and were also non-callable to maturity, carriedtop-flight AAA ratings by both agencies.    "We have sold 20 to 25 pct of the GE notes. For first-daysales on a Friday afternoon, I'm happy with the results," anofficer on Prudential-Bache's syndicate desk said.    Investors pay the U.S. dollar equivalent of the foreigncurrency-denominated notes, underwriters said.    Investment bankers said the next floating-rate issue of NewZealand or Australian dollar-denominated debt is probably a fewweeks away.    "I would like to underwrite a deal a day. But with the Dow,Ford and GE offerings, the marketplace has had enough for thetime being," the Prudential-Bache officer admitted.    Meanwhile, IDD Information Services said the 30-daycorporate visible supply fell to 3.29 billion dlrs last weekfrom 3.98 billion dlrs in the previous week. Reuter
NEW ZEALAND BUDGET FORECAST SEEN AS POSITIVE Analysts said they were surprised atthe government's announcement of a forecast budget surplus forfiscal 1988 but said it was consistent with previous policystatements and positive for the economy.    Finance Minister Roger Douglas predicted a budget surplusfor the year ending March 1988 of 379 mln New Zealand dlrsagainst a 1.95 billion deficit last year.    Analysts polled by Reuters said the forecast budget surpluswas even more positive than the most bullish analysts'forecasts and that this was good news for financial markets.    Market expectations among analysts questioned by Reutersbefore the budget varied widely between a balanced budget and a2.3 billion dlr deficit. But none predicted a surplus.    The forecast initially looks positive for both the bond andthe foreign exchange markets, one analyst said. Paradoxically,the New Zealand dollar could rise in the medium term, despitelower interest rates, as overseas investors became moreconfident about investing in New Zealand, he said.    However, some foreign exchange dealers disagreed, sayingthe local dollar is primarily interest rate driven and willmove lower.    The local dollar dropped to 0.5940/50 U.S. Dlrs in afterhours trading, against 0.5970/77 just before the budgetrelease.    Analysts said the budget was also positive for the sharemarket, despite an increase in the contribution of companytaxation to revenue figures.    One equities analyst predicted that the budget surplusannouncement could push the share market up by 50 pointstomorrow.    The Budget statement was broadly as expected, with acontinuation of existing policies, and the absence oftraditional pre-election incentives would be viewed positivelyby overseas investors, another said.    But one merchant bank economist said that certain anti-taxavoidance measures could damage some sectors of the sharemarket, particularly multi-national companies.    The government is also lowering its borrowing requirements,through bond tenders, as a result of the surplus. Therequirement for the rest of the year is now down to 950 mlnN.Z. Dlrs from a predicted 1.75 billion.    Predicted revenue in the Budget looked sustainable andthere appeared to be no holding back on expenditure, anothereconomist said. He added that the document seemed entirelycredible.    "Altogether it looks good for Labour's election prospects,"he said.    An election is due before the end of September. REUTER
ECONOMIST URGES MORE TAXES TO LOWER N.Z. DOLLAR An income tax surcharge and capitalgains tax could bring about an urgently needed depreciation ofthe N.Z. Dollar, independent economist Len Bayliss said.    Bayliss, a former economist with the Reserve Bank and theBank of New Zealand, said a major depreciation is needed torestore export competitiveness even if inflation is cut bycurrent government policies.    The taxes would help cut the budget deficit, which in turnwould lower the value of the N.Z. Dollar, he said in a speech.He added that the deficit for the year ending March 1988 couldbe much higher than the government's 1.3 billion dlr forecast.    Since the government was unlikely to cut expenditure as apercentage of gross domestic product, a major tax increase wasprobably unavoidable, Bayliss said.    He would have preferred an increase in the 10 pctvalue-added goods and services tax, introduced in October 1986,but that would have had a short-term inflationary impact.Import tariffs should be lowered to minimise the inflationaryimpact of a currency depreciation.    The government had failed to bring inflation down despitelower oil prices and an appreciation in the currency, he added.    New Zealand's inflation rate was 16.9 pct in the year toend-September against 18.9 pct in the year to end June.    The major deficiency in the government's anti-inflationpolicies was reliance on high interest and exchange rates andinsufficient emphasis on reducing the budget deficit, Baylisssaid. The government had also failed to reduce overseas debtand debt ratios and cut the balance of payments deficit.    "The widespread belief that (New Zealand's) problems aregoing to take much longer to solve than was originally thoughtis soundly based -- primarily because the government'smacro-economic policies have been unsuccessful," Bayliss said. REUTER
