CARGILL U.K. STRIKE TALKS POSTPONED Talks due today between management andunions to try to end the strike at Cargill U.K. Ltd's Seaforthoilseed crushing plant have been rescheduled for Thursday, acompany spokesman said.    Oilseed processing at the plant has been halted sinceDecember 19 when mill workers walked out in protest at newcontract manning levels. Reuter
CARGILL U.K. STRIKE TALKS POSTPONED TILL MONDAY Talks set for today between managementand unions to try to solve the labour dispute at Cargill U.K.Ltd's Seaforth oilseed crushing plant have been rescheduled forMonday, a company spokesman said.    Oilseed processing at the mill has been at a standstillsince December 19. REUTER
AIDE SAYS FRANCE SUPPORTS OIL AND FATS TAX France supports the European Commission'splans for a European Community (EC) fats and oils tax butobjects to some of its oilseeds proposals, Yves Van Haecke, anaide to French agriculture minister Francois Guillaume said.    He told a general assembly of France's Oilseeds Federation(FFCOP) that a suppression of monthly increases of oilseedsupport prices, for example, was unacceptable.    French oilseeds experts added the principle of a single taxregardless of varying quality was clumsy and capable ofunneccessarily alienating exporters such as the U.S. Reuter
CARGILL STRIKE TALKS CONTINUING TODAY Further talks will be held this morningat Cargill U.K. Ltd's oilseed processing plant at Seaforth,after yesterday's meeting between management and unions failedto produce a solution to end the three month old strike, acompany spokesman said.    Talks will be extended to tomorrow if there is nobreakthrough in today's session, he said. REUTER
CARGILL U.K. STRIKE TALKS TO RESUME THIS AFTERNOON Talks between Cargill U.K. Ltd'smanagement and unions, aimed at ending the prolonged strike atits Seaforth oilseed processing plant, will resume thisafternoon, a company spokesman said.    Yesterday's session failed to reach a compromise but someprogress was made, he said. REUTER
CARGILL U.K. STRIKE TALKS ADJOURN TO TUESDAY Talks between management and unions atCargill U.K. Ltd's oilseed processing plant at Seaforthadjourned today without a solution to the three month oldstrike, a company spokesman said.    Negotiations will resume next Tuesday, he said. Reuter
CHINA BUYS MALAYSIAN RBD PALM STEARINE China bought 6,000 tonnes of Malaysianrefined bleached deodorised palm stearine today for Mayshipment at prices equivalent to around 270 to 275 dlrs pertonne fob, traders said. REUTER
EC MINISTER SEES OILS TAX STILL IN NEGOTIATION The outcome of negotiations onproposals by the European Commission for a 330 Ecus a tonne taxon EC-produced and imported oilseeds and marine oils remainsdifficult to predict, Belgian agriculture minister Paul deKeersmaeker told a news conference.    De Keersmaeker, who chaired a meeting of EC farm ministerswhich ended today, was asked about reports enough countrieswere against the tax to ensure that it would be defeated innegotiations on the EC farm price package for 1987/88.    He said it was true some countries were strongly opposed,but others were less so and others basically in favour.    "I think there is room for negotiations, and I would notwant to make any predictions at this stage," de Keersmaekersaid.    Yesterday, British minister Michael Jopling said Britain,West Germany, Portugal, the Netherlands and Denmark wereopposed to the measure. Between them these countries have morethan enough voting power to block it.    Diplomatic sources said at today's meeting the Spanishdelegation also expressed strong reservations about the idea. Reuter
CCC SEED CREDIT GURANTEES FOR ALGERIA - USDA The Commodity Credit Corporation(CCC) has authorized 2.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees to coversales of seeds for planting to Algeria, the U.S. AgricultureDepartment said.    The department said the additional guarantees increase thecumulative fiscal year 1987 program for sales of U.S.agricultural products to Algeria to 466.0 mln dlrs.    To be eligible under the new seed credit guarantees, allsales must be registered by September 30, 1987, and shipped byDecember 31, 1987, USDA said. Reuter
