USDA TO REDUCE CITRUS ESTIMATING PROGRAM the U.S. Agriculture Department'sNational Agricultural Statistics Services (NASS) said it willchange its citrus estimate program for California and Arizona,starting in 1988.    NASS said it will discontinue California forecasts forlemons during December, February, March, May and June and forgrapefruit and tangerines for those months plus November.    Forecasts for lemons will be issued in October, November,January, April and July and for grapefruit in October, January,April, and July and for tangerines in October,  January andApril. There will be no change in the estimating program forCalifornia oranges.    Arizona forecasts will be dropped for lemons, oranges,grapefruit and tangerines in November, December February,March, May and June, with forecasts retained in October,January, April and July, it said.    There will be no changes in the estimating program forcitrus in Texas or Florida. Reuter
FCOJ SUPPLIES SIGNIFICANTLY ABOVE YEAR AGO-USDA Total supply of frozen concentratedorange juice (FCOJ) in 1986/87 is expected to be significantlyabove year-earlier levels, even with carry-in stocks well belowthe previous season, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.    In a summary of its Fruit Situation Report, the Departmentsaid Florida's imports of FCOJ, mostly from Brazil, have shownsharp gains to date.    The Department noted the price of FCOJ will probably beaffected by the final decision, scheduled for April 22, onwhether the U.S. considers Brazilian FCOJ exports to the U.S.have caused injury.    Continuing strong demand for fresh and processing fruitcoupled with seasonal declines in supplies mean that growerprices will remain higher this spring than a year earlier.    The department said stocks of fresh apples in cold storageat the beginning of February were moderately larger than a yearearlier, but strong demand has kept apple prices firm.    In view of the strong demand and seasonally reducedsupplies, apple prices are projected to stay firm.    During the remainder of 1986/87, supplies of most processednoncitrus fruit will be smaller than a year ago, it said.    Movement of canned fruit has improved, and remainingsuppies for some canned fruit items are tight and as aconsequence prices have strengthened, the department said. Reuter
CACEX DENIES BRAZIL FCOJ PRICE RISE RUMOURS There has been no rise in theprice of Frozen Concentrated Orange Juice, FCOJ, a spokesmanfor the Banco do Brasil's Foreign Trade Department, Cacex,said.    He was responding to rumours in the international marketthat Brazil had raised its FCOJ prices in range of 1,075 to1,150 dlrs per tonne. Reuter
U.S. TO SET ORANGE JUICE DUTIES MONDAY The Commerce Department on Mondaywill set final dumping duties on frozen orange juice fromBrazil, department officials said.    A preliminary duty of 8.54 pct was set last Oct 17 on theimports, which run at about 700 mln dlrs a year. Commerce'sruling on Monday will reset the duties on the basis of moredetailed cost information, industry officials said.    The duties now are being assessed on a temporary basis,pending a final ruling by the U.S. International TradeCommission (ITC) on whether the imports are injuring thedomestic orange industry.    The ITC ruled provisionally last June 18 that the domesticindustry was being injured by Brazilian orange juice imports.    A complaint that the Brazilian imports were being dumped atbelow costs on the U.S. market was filed on behalf of U.S.growers by the Florida Citrus Mutual, a Lakeland, Fla., group,Alcoma Packing Co, Inc, and Barry Citrus Products.    U.S. officials say about half of the orange juice consumedin the United States comes from Brazil. reuter
U.S. RULING ON BRAZIL FCOJ MAY COME TOMORROW A decision on final dumping duties onfrozen orange juice from Brazil may not be issued untiltomorrow, Commerce Department officials said.    They said the department has until midnight tonight to setthe duty but may not make the finding public until tomorrow.    A preliminary duty of 8.54 pct was set October 17, 1986.    The final ruling will be based on more detailedinformation, the officials said. Reuter
U.S. HAS TO MIDNIGHT TO SET ORANGE JUICE DUTIES A decision on final dumping duties onfrozen orange juice from Brazil may not be issued untiltomorrow, Commerce Department officials said.    They said the department has until midnight tonight to setthe duty, but may not make the finding public until tomorrow.    A preliminary duty of 8.54 pct was set last Oct. 17.    The final duty will be based on more detailed information,the officials said. reuter
TRADERS SAY USDA MAY LOWER ORANGE CROP ESTIMATE The U.S. Department of Agriculture willprobably decrease its estimate of the 1986/87 Florida orangecrop today to as low as 123 mln boxes from 129 mln boxes,analysts and industry sources said.    The Department is scheduled to release the new estimate at1500 hrs EST (2100 gmt) today.    Analysts said the market is anticipating a downwardrevision and much of the bullish impact has been discounted.    The estimate, which the USDA has left unchanged sinceOctober, should be affected this time by recent evidence of ashortfall in the early and midseason crop now that thoseharvests are complete. Analysts said based on earlier USDAprojections, the harvests should have been five to seven mlnboxes larger than they were.    "They are going to cut their estimate," said Bob Tate, anFCOJ broker with Dean Witter Reynolds in Miami. "The onlyquestion is whether they will admit the whole thing in thisestimate."    Tate said it is possible the USDA will lower its estimateby a lesser amount, perhaps three mln boxes, and continue todrop the estimate in subsequent reports as the crop pictureclarifies. The late season harvest, consisting mostly ofValencia oranges, has not yet started, he noted.    "They'll temper it," said Judy Weissman, FCOJ analyst withShearson Lehman Bros. "The main drop will probably come inJuly."    She expects today's estimate will be 126 mln boxes. Reuter
USDA ORANGE JUICE YIELD ESTIMATE The U.S. Agriculture Departmentprojected an average yield of 1.47 gallons of frozenconcentrated orange juice per box (42.0 degree brix equivalent)from Florida's 1986/87 crop.    That compares with 1.46 gallons per box previously and 1.38gallons per box from the 1985/86 crop.    The crop reporting board said the estimates for the 1986/87season are based on maturity and yields tests as of March 1. Reuter
BRAZILIAN FCOJ OFFICIAL WELCOMES U.S. DUTY CUT Mario Branco Peres, president ofthe Brazilian Association of Citrus Juice Industries(Abrassuco), welcomed a decision by the U.S. CommerceDepartment sharply cutting its duties on imported frozenconcentrated orange juice (FCOJ) from Brazil.    Speaking by telephone from Sao Paulo, Peres said, "With itsdecision, the U.S. government recognised the honesty ofBrazilian exporters, who never have the intention of practisingdumping."    In a final ruling yesterday, the U.S. government eliminatedthe duties shipped by Sucocitrico Cutrale and cut to 1.96 pctthe duty on Citrosuco. Duties of 8.54 pct had been set lastOctober.    Peres said Brazil had enough orange juice to meet the needsof its major clients.    "We do not have in stock what we would like to have, but wecertainly have enough orange juice available to supply ourbuyers," Peres said, declining to estimate the amount of thecurrent stock. "To keep it a secret is part of our strategy," headded.    Peres said the price policy of the orange juice was basedon market conditions.    "There is nothing better than a free trade policy," he said.    Cutrale and Citrosuco officials were not immediatelyavailable for comment. Reuter
JAPAN FIRM PLANS TO SELL U.S. FARMLAND TO JAPANESE A Japanese real estate companysaid it will launch a campaign to sell land in U.S. Farmingareas to rich Japanese.    Higashi Nippon House said it would offer around 2,200 acresof land in Illinois, California, Florida and Indiana from earlyApril to gauge response. It set up International Farm Corp ofAmerica in Chicago last September to oversee the operation.    American farmers would continue as working tenants and partof the profits from harvests of rice, corn, soybean and orangeswould go to the Japanese investors as rental.    Japanese Agriculture Ministry officials told Reuters saleswere limited to farmers to keep land in agricultural use.    "Two years ago, I began to seek my own farmland in Japan,"said Isao Nakamura, president of Higashi Nippon. "However, saleof Japanese farmland is strictly controlled by the government,so I began to look for the land in the U.S to make my dream toown farm land come true."    Nakamura said hundreds of companies exist in the U.S. Tosell farmland to investors as more and more farmers facedifficulties due to the recession in U.S. Agriculture. REUTER
FCOJ MOVEMENT 3,915,370 GALLONS LAST WEEK Florida Citrus ProcessorsAssociation said frozen concentrate orange juice movement intotrade channels in the week ended March 7 totalled 3,915,370gallons versus 3,956,126 gallons in the week ended February 28and 4,284,693 gallons in the corresponding year-ago period.    There were 3,814,891 gallons of foreign imports last weekversus 133,505 gallons the week before. Domestic imports lastweek were 306,031. Retail movement was 1,652,916 versus2,015,953 a year ago. Bulk movement was 1,934,494 against1,954,103 a year earlier.    Current season cumulative movement was 60,480,375 gallonsversus 59,654,702 last year. Cumulative net pack for the seasonwas 80,359,978 versus 74,071,755 a year ago. Inventory was83,422,435 versus 81,963,040 a year ago. Reuter
RAISE IN BRAZIL FCOJ EXPORT PRICES NOT CONFIRMED There is no confirmationthat Brazil's major processors of Frozen Concentrated OrangeJuice, FCOJ, will raise export prices of the product to 1,375dlrs per tonne from April 1, a spokesman for the BrazilianAssociation of Citrus Juice Industries (Abrassuco) said.    Asked to comment on a report from New York that Cutrale andCitrosuco had sent telexes to customers informing of the priceraise, Jose Carlos Goncalves said Abrassuco was not aware ofit.    "All we know is that Cacex has increased the dollar amountto translate FOB price to ex-dock New York price to 1,050 dlrsfrom 770 dlrs," Goncalves said.    Citrosuco and Cutrale officials were not available forcomment. Reuter
SOVIET PAPER DETAILS GEORGIAN FLOOD DAMAGE Floods and avalanches killed 110 peopleand caused around 350 mln roubles worth of damage in thesouthern Soviet republic of Georgia earlier this year, thegovernment daily Izvestia said.    Some 80,000 hectares of agricultural land and gardens hadbeen inundated, damaging tea plantations and orange groves, thenewspaper said. It added that spring sowing in southern partsof the country was some two weeks behind schedule because ofthe late thaw but gave no precise crop estimates.    In the most detailed report to date on the heavy snows inJanuary and floods in February, Izvestia said 8,200 people hadbeen evacuated from mountain areas, 4,500 houses had beendamaged and hundreds of kilometres of roads and power lines hadbeen destroyed.    A separate article in the daily warned that a sudden thawwas expected shortly in the Ukraine and southern parts ofRussia, which experienced record snows this winter.    Preventive measures have already been taken in some areasincluding the evacuation of cattle. Reuter
FLORIDA WEEKLY CROP REPORT Florida's citrus groves continuein very good condition, acccording to the latest report by theU.S. Department of Agriculture's Florida AgriculturalStatistics Service. Late-week rains and thunderstorms came atan opportune time. Warm daytime temperatures and good soilmoisture have produced an abundance of new growth and bloom.    Most trees are in some stage of bloom development withpetal drop already taking place in many south Florida groves.    Harvest of late-type valencia oranges is increasing rapidlywith the near completion of the early and midseason varieties.Rain during the week caused some delay in picking.    For the week ended March 29, there were an estimated 77,000boxes of early and midseason and 945,000 boxes of late seasonoranges harvested, the USDA said. Reuter
JAPAN/U.S. AGRICULTURE TALKS SET FOR APRIL 17, 20 Agriculture Minister Mutsuki Kato said hewill meet U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng here on April17 and 20 to discuss bilateral farm trade issues. Lyng willvisit Tokyo from April 16 to 27.    Kato told reporters after a cabinet meeting all topics ofconcern to the U.S. Will be discussed, such as trade in beefand oranges and import controls on farm products. He saidShintaro Abe, the ruling Liberal Democratic Party's executivecouncil chairman, would propose some unspecified measures inresponse to demands to ease import controls on U.S. Farmproducts. Kato declined to give any details. REUTER
WEATHER HURTS ITALIAN ORANGES - USDA REPORT Unfavorable weather conditions duringthe second week of March caused damage to oranges in theCalabria region in southern Italy, the U.S. AgricultureDepartment's officer in Rome said in a field report.    The report, dated April 3, said the region accounts forabout 22,000 hectares of the Italian orange crop or about 26pct of total production.    However, orange production in the region for marketing year1986/87 is forecast at 565,000 tonnes or 25 pct of the totalItalian orange crop, it said.    The report said trade contacts agree that about 15 pct ofthe orange output in Calabria was damaged by frost. Reuter
U.S. CITRUS CROP ESTIMATE -- USDA The U.S. Agriculture Departmentestimated 1986/87 citrus production, as follows (in boxes) --    Total U.S. orange crop (excluding Florida Temples) --190,050,000 boxes, vs 190,850,000 boxes last month and176,410,000 boxes in the 1985/86 crop.    Florida oranges (excluding Temples) -- 122,900,000 boxes,vs 124,000,000 last month and 119,000,000 boxes in 1985/86.    Florida Temples -- 3,400,000 boxes, vs 3,400,000 last monthand 2,950,000 boxes in 1985/86.    The department's estimates are based on April 1 cropconditions. Reuter
USDA ORANGE JUICE YIELD ESTIMATE The U.S. Agriculture Departmentprojected an average yield of 1.50 gallons of frozenconcentrated orange juice per box (42.0 degree brix equivalent)from Florida's 1986/87 crop.    That compares with 1.47 gallons per box previously and 1.38gallons per box from the 1985/86 crop.    The crop reporting board said the estimates for the 1986/87season are based on maturity and yields tests as of April 1. Reuter
USDA FLORIDA ORANGE REPORT CONSIDERED BEARISH The U.S. Agriculture Department'slatest estimates on 1986/87 Florida orange production andorange juice yield are bearish for the frozen concentratedorange juice futures market because the yield increase wasgreater than expected, FCOJ traders and analysts said.    The USDA projected an average yield of 1.50 gallons of FCOJper box versus last month's estimate of 1.47 gallons.    The government estimated Florida orange production(excluding Temples) at 122.9 mln boxes versus 124 mln lastmonth. Temples were unchanged at 3.4 mln boxes.    Traders and analysts said the unexpectedly large yieldincrease outweighed the anticipated drop in box count. reuter
FCOJ MOVEMENT 4,496,533 GALLONS LAST WEEK Florida Citrus ProcessorsAssociation said frozen concentrated orange juice movement intotrade channels in the week ended April 4 totalled 4,496,533gallons versus 5,058,976 gallons in the week ended March 28 and4,141,578 gallons in the corresponding year-ago period.    There were 499,967 gallons of foreign imports last weekversus 341,280 gallons the week before. Domestic imports lastweek were 24,774. Retail movement was 1,741,139 versus1,464,490 a year ago. Bulk movement was 2,328,368 against2,139,383 a year earlier.    Current season cumulative movement was 79,516,753 gallonsversus 76,919,119 last year. Cumulative net pack for the seasonwas 86,254,846 versus 82,355,864 a year ago. Inventory was75,212,711 versus 75,985,696 a year ago. Reuter
U.S. AGENCY RULES AGAINST BRAZIL ORANGE JUICE The U.S. International TradeCommission, ITC, voted to authorize the Commerce Department toimpose anti-dumping duties on imports of Brazilian frozenconcentrated orange juice.    The ITC voted 3-2 in favor of the anti-dumping petition inits final ruling on the matter.    Today's ITC ruling was consistent with the CommerceDepartment's final ruling of March 9, and activates ananti-dumping duty of 1.96 pct on imports of Brazilian frozenconcentrated orange juice, Stephen Vastagh, ITC investigatorsaid.    The ITC found that Brazilian orange juice imports haveinjured U.S. producers. The Commerce Department had alreadyruled that the imports were unfairly priced, and lowered to1.96 pct the anti-dumping margin that in a preliminary decisionlast fall had been set at 8.5 pct, Vastagh said.    The U.S. government has been requiring bond to be posted onimports of Brazilian frozen concentrated orange juice sinceCommerce's preliminary ruling of last October 23, he said.    Commerce had ruled that one major Brazilian producer --Cutrale -- would be excluded from the anti-dumping duty.    Brazilian imports account for about 40 pct of total U.S.supply, Vastagh said. Between December 1985 and November 1986,the United States imported the equivalent of 546 mln gallons ofBrazilian orange juice worth 622 mln dlrs, he said.    Currently, the United States requires a 35-cent per gallontariff on orange juice imports, Vastagh said.    An ITC spokesman said the agency would forward its finalreport on the anti-dumping case to Commerce by April 22.    Commerce then will process the anti-dumping order andtransmit it to U.S Customs, which will liquidate bond entriesdating from Commerce's preliminary ruling and begin assessingduties, Vastagh said.    He said about 12 Brazilian orange juice exporters,including three major shippers, would be affected by thedecision. Reuter
LYNG OPENS JAPAN TALKS ON FARM TRADE BARRIERS U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyngopens talks with Japanese government officials today well awarehis demand for the opening of Japanese rice, beef and citrusmarkets is likely to be rejected.     But in an interview with Reuters during the flight toTokyo yesterday, Lyng said the goal of his trip was to throw aninternational spotlight on Japan's agricultural importprotection in the hope pressure would build on Tokyo to openits markets.    "(The Japanese) have said they are happy we are coming, butthey are not going to give us anything," Lyng said.    U.S. Officials do not expect any Japanese concessionsduring Lyng's two-week visit here. Any farm trade concessionswould be unveiled later this month, they said.    "If there is anything of consequence to offer (PrimeMinister Yasuhiro) Nakasone would take it with him," when hevisits Washington later in the month, one U.S. Official said.    Lyng plans to ask Japan to open the door to rice imports bypartially lifting the longstanding ban on foreign purchases.    A private U.S. Rice trader visited Tokyo last weekrequesting Japan buy 200,000 tonnes of rice for industrial usessuch as making sake. Japan has rejected the overture, sayingTokyo maintains a policy of self-sufficiency in rice.    Lyng will also press Japan to eliminate an import quota forbeef by April 1988 because he believes Japanese consumers wouldlike to buy much more beef than currently allowed.    He cited the example of a California company whichtransports live U.S. Cattle to Japan by air for slaughter tocircumvent the beef quota. The cost of transport is higher thanthe value of the animal, he said.    U.S. Officials said the Japan Livestock Industry PromotionCorporation which regulates beef imports, was forced to borrowfrom the fiscal 1987 quota earlier this year because the 1986quota was exhausted and Japanese beef prices were rising. Japanhas said it cannot open its markets to beef imports.    Along with beef, the U.S. Will also press Japan toeliminate import quotas on fresh oranges and orange juice byApril, 1988. Some U.S. Officials believe Japan may eventuallybe willing to scrap the quota on fresh oranges becauseliberalized trade would not necessarily damage the Japanesemandarin orange industry.    The quota on juice may be harder to eliminate becauseimports might replace domestic produced juice, U.S. AndJapanese officials have said.   Lyng has resurrected a past U.S. Proposal that Japan buysurplus U.S. Foodgrains for donation to developing countries,but some U.S. Officials are skeptical action will be taken.   Lyng will also urge Japan to put its domestic farm policies,including rice, on the negotiating table during GATT talks inGeneva. He said Japan must eliminate import quotas on certainminor food products or face possible U.S. Reprisals. REUTER
LYNG WARNS U.S. TRADE SITUATION IS EXPLOSIVE (RPT) U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyngsaid Japanese government officials do not seem to understandthat protectionist sentiment in the U.S. Could lead to anexplosive situation and protectionist legislation.    Speaking to the National Press Club of Japan, Lyng saidprotectionist sentiment in the U.S. Has increased alarminglyduring the last six months.    "It is a radically changed situation and is very explosive.We are on the verge of some very harsh mandatory retaliatorylaws which would have very serious consequences for othercountries, especially Japan," Lyng told reporters.    Lyng's comments about protectionist trade legislationappeared to be a reference to the so-called Gephardt provision,requiring retaliation against countries which have tradesurpluses with the U.S., Trade analysts said.    U.S. House majority leader Thomas Foley, a WashingtonDemocrat, yesterday predicted during a visit here that theGephardt provision will be approved by the House when tradelegislation is taken up later this month.    Senior Japanese officials do not seem to perceive thevolatility of the situation in the U.S., Where Congress isincreasingly unpredictable, he said.    "The purpose of this trip is to emphasise the fact thatpatience is beginning to be very much frayed in Washington. Icannot emphasise that enough," Lyng said.    In talks with Japanese Agriculture Minister Mutsuki Katoyesterday, Lyng and Trade representative Clayton Yeutter askedJapan to begin negotiations on its rice policy and end importquotas on beef and citrus.    Lyng said he was disappointed Kato rejected the U.S.Request but hoped it would not lead to a protectionist responsein Congress, where legislation on rice retaliation has beenintroduced in both the House and Senate.    Lyng said the U.S. Is dependent on Japan as a market forexports because Japan has been the largest buyer of U.S. Farmproducts since 1964, especially grains.    He said the U.S. Understands Japan, with a limited landarea, is concerned about maintaining some level ofself-sufficiency in food for national security reasons.    But he argued the freeing of farm product imports would notnecessarily weaken Japanese agriculture.    Lyng pledged the U.S. Will never again embargo shipments offarm products as it did in 1973. REUTER
U.S. BEEF, CITRUS TALKS WITH JAPAN SEEN TOUGH The Reagan administration is expected toface tough resistance from Japan and from some entrenched U.S.interests, if it hopes to succeed in forcing Japan to end beefand citrus import controls by April, 1988, U.S. and Japaneseofficials said.    Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng and Trade RepresentativeClayton Yeutter took a hardline stance on beef and citrus intalks here last week, insisting that the quotas be abandoned byApril, 1988.    But that stance will be difficult to maintain because Japanwill resist the pressure fiercely and because some U.S.suppliers of those commodities have an interest in maintainingthe quotas, U.S. and Japanese officials told Reuters.    Twice in the past, the United States has negotiated withJapan on beef and citrus import quotas -- during the Tokyoround of multilateral trade negotiations in 1978, and inbilateral talks in 1984.    Each time the U.S. demanded an end to the quotas at theoutset but ultimately accepted substantial increases instead.The current agreement calls for an increase in high qualitybeef imports to 58,400 tonnes in fiscal 1987, oranges to126,000 tonnes and orange juice to 8,500 tonnes.    Lyng has said repeatedly that this time the United Stateswill not settle for simple increases in the quotas. Japan hasbeen given plenty of time to reform its agricultural supportsystem and the quotas must be scrapped, Lyng said.    Japanese officials want to begin informal talks on beef andcitrus in August or September in Hawaii, sources said.    If the U.S. intends to press its tough stance, and Japan,as expected rejects the demands, the issue may then be put tothe General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade for settlement,which would mean prolonging the friction beyond the April, 1988deadline set by the U.S., officials said.    In interviews here, Japanese officials insist that on beefthey will not liberalize imports, regardless of the U.S.pressure, because the Japanese beef industry is not competitiveand would be damaged by freer trade.    Most Japanese beef production still tends to be on smallfarms which Japanese officials said must be protected fromcheap imports by use of the quota system.    Furthermore, while the U.S. National Cattlemen'sAssociation is strongly supporting the tough administrationposition, some U.S. meat exporters and packers are ambivalent.    This is because to some U.S. exporters and packers beefexports to Japan under the quota system are a steady, reliablebusiness managed by a quasi-government Japan Livestock IndustryPromotion Corporation. Under quotas the U.S. share of Japan'sbeef market has expanded at the expense of Australia.    In the absence of quotas, some U.S. suppliers are concernedthe U.S. share might decline and exporting to Japan wouldbecome a riskier business, meat industry sources said.    Major U.S meat industry leaders will meet in Washingtonnext week, including cattlemen, processors and exporters, in aneffort to reach an industry-wide consensus toward Japan.    The citrus industry also appears split on the quota issue.California's Sunkist, the largest U.S. supplier of oranges toJapan, has expressed reservations about eliminating quotas.    A representative of Sunkist said the cooperative isconcerned that in the absence of quotas, lower quality orangesfrom Israel and South Africa might be competitive in Japan.    Ironically, some Japanese officials hinted that freshoranges may be a product on which imports could be freed with aminimum of impact on Japanese mandarin orange production.    This is because U.S. oranges do not directly compete withsmaller Japanese mandarins, officials said. But Japan wants tomaintain quotas on orange juice because it fears imported juicetastes better and would displace Japanese mandarin orangejuice, they said.    One scenario mentioned by both U.S. and Japanese officialsis that Tokyo may try to blunt the tough administration stanceby offering to scrap the quota on fresh oranges in return forU.S. acceptance of increases in beef and juice quotas.    Lyng has acknowledged that liberalization of beef andcitrus imports is a difficult objective, but he insisted duringthe week-long tour here that it is a high priority on theU.S./Japan agriculture agenda-- more important than the riceissue which received most of the attention.    Asked about the ambivalence of some in U.S. agribusiness,Lyng noted some interests on both the U.S. and Japanese sidehave benefited from quotas but this will not stop theadministration from pressing for liberalization.    And Lyng said the administration believes it can marshallmore support for eliminating the quotas now than ever before,because of concern about Japan's rising trade surplus.    "We're coming at this one (beef and citrus negotiation)with a much stronger view coming out of Washington. The timeshave changed. The trade balance is much worse," Lyng said. Reuter
CHINA PROVINCE BECOMES GRAIN IMPORTER The south China province of Guangdong isimporting millions of tonnes of grain a year from overseas andother parts of China because farmers have switched from grainto more profitable crops, the Peking Review magazine said.    The official magazine said the province's grain area fellto 4.33 mln hectares in 1985 from 5.7 mln in 1978 out of atotal farmland area of 7.4 mln hectares.    Farmers have switched to cash crops such as sugarcane,bananas, oranges, papaya and freshwater fish-farming, in partto supply major consumer markets in Hong Kong and Macao, themagazine said. It gave no 1986 area figures.    The magazine said China aims to keep 80 pct of nationalfarmland under grain, 10 pct under cash crops and 10 pct underother crops, although the ratio will vary from place to place.    It said primitive cultivation methods, labour-intensity andlow productivity make grain the least profitable farmcommodity. Farmers in one central region of China can from 0.1hectare earn 2,250 yuan a year from vegetables, 375-450 yuanfrom cotton or 225 yuan from grain, it added.    It said consumer prices for foodgrain can be adjusted onlygradually as part of a reform of the entire pricing system. REUTER
