SPAIN TO RELAX EXCHANGE CONTROLS The Bank of Spain is relaxing exchangecontrols to help put Spanish banks on an equal footing withEuropean Community competitors by the 1993 deadline for theending of restrictions, a central bank spokesman said.    "The measures to take effect by June were designed to liftrestrictions on foreign currency operations, in line withderegulation in the banking industry," he said in a telephoneinterview.    The spokesman said the relaxation of exchange controlshighlighted a broader package of reforms announced last Friday.    The central bank said in a statement the measures includedincreased provisions for high-risk borrowers and a provisionfor future pension fund obligations.    It said the measures were the latest steps to deregulateSpain's financial sector, a move triggered by entry into theCommunity last year.    Spain has five years to complete bank deregulation, aprocess that began in 1978 when the government allowed foreignbanks to open branches.    Since then 39 foreign banks have come into the market andthey now control about 15 pct of the system's lending assets.    Residents in Spain can now borrow freely in foreigncurrency up to the equivalent of 1.5 billion pesetas against aprevious ceiling of 750 mln pesetas.    The 750 mln peseta limit was set last March. Between thatdate and the end of last year some 430 mln dlrs flowed into thecountry on new foreign currency loans.    The central bank spokesman said operations over 1.5 billionpesetas were technically subject to authorisation, but would begiven clearance if the government failed to act in 15 days.    Spanish banks will also be allowed to expand their foreigncurrency funding, formerly obtainable through deposits, byissuing certificates of deposit, bonds and commercial paper.    They can also employ these funds to invest in foreignissues, while before they had to be converted into deposits.    Foreign exchange operations can be in mixed currencies,instead of having to borrow and lend in the same currency.    The central bank has also lifted the restriction on theamount of foreign exchange loans, which previously were limitedto three times a bank's capital equity.    The latest deregulation measures were welcomed by mostbankers, in contrast to rulings issued earlier this month whichimposed a 19 pct reserve requirement on new convertible pesetafunds held by banks and freed short term deposit rates.    The reserve requirement, which was already in place onnormal peseta deposits, was intended to curb short-term foreignspeculative capital which is entering the country andthreatening the government's money supply growth target.    A foreign banker said high reserve requirements, which nowaccount for about 30 pct of deposits, placed Spanish banks at adisadvantage with European competitors.    The government reduced fixed asset investment requirementsto 11 pct from 23 pct to help offset the negative impact ofinterest rate deregulation. "The real problem is the freeing ofinterest rates," the banker said. "This is going to take a bigbite out of profits."    The ruling lifted a six pct ceiling on interest rates paidon deposits of up to 180 days.    The chairman of one of Spain's leading banks said themeasure was expected to bring a 20 pct drop in profits thisyear. REUTER
