DOW CHEMICAL CO <DOW> UNIT INCREASES PRICES The Dow Chemical Co said itsEngineering Thermoplastics Department will increase the sellingprices of standard grades of MAGNUM ABS resins by three cts perpound.    It also announced an increase of five cts per pound forperformance grades of the resins.    Both increases are effective April 1, 1987. Reuter
NOVA SUBSIDIARY RAISES U.S. POLYETHYLENE PRICES Novacor Inc, a unit of <Nova,an Alberta Corp>, said it would raise prices for U.S. customersby five cts a pound on linear low-density and low-densitypolyethylene, effective April 1.    The company did not immediately disclose the actual newprices.    A Novacor official later said in reply to an inquiry thatthe new prices, effective April 1, would range from 31 U.S. ctsa pound to about 38 cts.    The official said the increase reflected improved marketconditions, although he noted the new prices would still belower than those of three years ago. Reuter
PPG INDUSTRIES <PPG> SELLS ETHYLENE INTERESTS PPG Industries Inc said a group ofinvestors led by <Sterling Group> of Houston said it has agreedto acquire PPG's ethylene products business, including itsinteest in an ethylene glycols joint venture with du Pont Co<DD> in Beaumont, Texas, for undisclosed terms.    The company said completion is expected in the secondquarter.    It said the business had sales of over 50 mln dlrs in 1986. Reuter
YUGOSLAVIAN OIL FIRM STARTS WORKING WITH FRENCH Yugoslavia's top oil and natural gasproducer <Ina-Naftaplin> has started to implement a cooperationcontract signed last year with the French petrochemical concern<Petro Chemie>, the official Tanjug news agency said.    Under the deal Petro Chemie supplies oil to Ina refineriesin Sisak and Rijeka and ships parts to 12 Yugoslav firms in thepetrochemical, chemical, textile and plastics industries. TheYugoslav firms, in turn, will export oil products to France.    Tanjug said this year's exchange will value 530 mln dlrs.    Ina signed a similar deal with West Germany's Hoechst AG<HFAG.F> two years ago.    Ina also has joint ventures and co-production projects,involving Yugoslavia's other main producer <Naftagas> of NoviSad, with partners in Angola, Algeria and Tunisia, exploringfor and exploiting oil and natural gas.    An estimated 300,000 tonnes of oil will thus be obtainedfrom fields in Angola over the next 15 years, Tanjug said.    Ina accounts for some 75 pct of Yugoslavia's total oilproduction, which amounts to 4.2 mln tonnes a year.    Ina earned more than 154 mln dlrs from exports of goods andservices to 39 countries last year and ranks among Yugoslavia'sleading export enterprises.    In a separate statement issued through Tanjug, Ina said ithas successfully completed the first drill at the depth of over3,000 meters in the Bay of Baes, in Tunisia. Ina is jointlyprospecting with the U.S. Firm Conoco for oil and gas there.    Work on a second drill, below 4,000 meters, would startsoon in the Bay of Gabes, the statement said. Ina would investabout 8.5 mln dlrs in prospecting in the Gabes area.    Conoco, which has completed geological prospecting for theTunisian government, has transferred one third of its optionrights in the region to Ina, it said. REUTER
ARISTECH <ARS> TO INCREASE PRODUCTION CAPACITY Aristech Chemical Corp said it plansto increase production capacity for three of its key productlines: polypropylene, bisphenol-A and phenol.    Aristech said the polypropylene expansion involves a majormodernization of its Neal, W. Va., polypropylene plant.    When completed, Aristech said, the project would increasethe plant's annual production to 264 mln pounds from 165 mlnpounds now.    Aristech said the expansion will increase the company'stotal polypropylene, a thermoplastic resin, capacity to 600 mlnpounds annually from 515 mln pounds now.    Aristech also said it will expand bisphenol-A and phenolproduction at its Haverhill, Ohio plant.    It said the project will raise its bisphenol-A, which isused to make polycarbonate and epoxy reins, capacity to 192 mlnpounds per year from 165 mln pounds now.    Aristech added that phenol production will increase to 610mln pounds per year from 585 mln pounds a year now.    Phenol is used to make phenolic resins and adhesives forengineering plastics, the company said. Reuter
REICHHOLD <RCI> RAISES SOME MATERIALS PRICES Reichhold Chemicals Inc said itsemulsion polymers division increased by nine cts per dry poundthe prices of all styrene-butadiene and polystyrene latexes,effective May 1.    It said the increase is in addition to recently announcedincreases and applies to carpet, paper, nonwovens, textiles,adhesives and other specialty end uses. Reuter
RAIMOND EXPECTS EC-GULF PROBLEMS WILL BE SOLVED French Foreign Minister Jean-BernardRaimond predicted in a published interview a successful end tonegotiations to admit Gulf petrochemical exports into theEuropean Community (EC).    Negotiations have been under way between the Community andthe six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) for three years.    Raimond, due here tomorrow from Oman for his first officialvisit to the United Arab Emirates (UAE), told the semi-officialdaily Al-Ittihad he was confident a solution would soon bereached.    "I am confident that problems between the two big partners,the GCC and the EC, will find a solution. I will work to reachthat solution," he said in the interview conducted in Paris.    An EC decision to impose tariffs on Gulf petrochemicalexports over a set quota has strained trade relations betweenthe two sides.    GCC members Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, the UAEand Oman are threatening to impose heavy customs duties onEuropean exports to the Gulf if no solution is reached.    Raimond said negotiations between the two groups took along time because there were 20 countries involved. But added:"Time is now ripe and all circumstances are appropriate formaking crucial progress."    Referring to the Iran-Iraq war, he said efforts shouldcontinue to find a solution despite prevailing difficulties.    He said France was continuing negotiations with Iran. Someproblems were solved as a result of the contacts while othersremained unresolved. He gave no details but said: "France wishesto have normal relations with Iran." REUTER
IMPERIAL OIL <IMO.A> TO FOCUS ON HIGHER PROFIT Imperial Oil Ltd, 70 pct owned by ExxonCorp <XON>, will focus on maintaining its financial strengthand improving near-term earnings performance through operatingexpense reductions and selective capital spending, the companysaid in the annual report.    Imperial Oil said it expects to spend about 750 mln dlrs oncapital and exploration expenditures in 1987, compared to 648mln dlrs in 1986 and 1.16 billion dlrs in 1985.    Imperial previously reported 1986 operating net profit fellto 440 mln dlrs or 2.69 dlrs share from 694 mln dlrs or 4.27dlrs share in the prior year.    Imperial Oil said the attention to earnings results fromthe desire to pursue longer term growth opportunities shouldthe investment climate improve and the belief that low orvolatile crude oil prices could continue during the nextseveral years.    The company also said actions initiated during 1986 torestructure and improve efficiency should continue to showbenefits in 1987.    During 1986, the company cut operating, administrative andmarketing expenses by 91 mln dlrs and reduced the number ofworkers by 16 pct to 12,500.    Imperial chairman Arden Haynes said in the annual reportthat it is too early to determine whether the recent upwardmovement in international oil prices will be sustained.    "It is still a time for prudence and caution, and thecompany's actions will continue to be based on the fundamentalsof market supply and demand," he said.    Haynes said prospects for the company's petroleum productsdivision are more promising than before, but are stilluncertain. Imperial's 1986 petroleum earnings rose to 174 mlndlrs from 102 mln dlrs in 1985.    Haynes said more satisfactory product margins on itspetroleum products could result if demand recovers as it has inthe United States.    The company's chemicals business outlook is mixed, Haynessaid. Prospects for growth in petrochemical sales is good aslong as economic growth continues, but future large grainsurpluses could dampen fertilizer demand and maintain pressureon prices.    Imperial's chemical business earned 17 mln dlrs in 1986,compared to three mln dlrs in 1985. Reuter
CHARTER CO <QCHR> TO COMPLETE REORGANIZATION Charter Co, the hugepetrochemical concern in bankruptcy proceedings stemming fromhundreds of dioxin-related claims, said it and all of itssubsidiaries, except the Independent Petrochemical Corp, willcomplete their reorganization on March 31.    It said that on that date, it will deposit with an escrowagent 288.8 mln dlrs in cash, 66.7 mln dlrs in notes and 31 mlnshares of its common for distribution.    Company officials were not immediately available forcomment.    As previously reported, Charter settled dioxin-relatedclaims for about 1,200 individuals and the state of Missouri,resolving claims against it and all subsidiaries exceptIndependent Petrochemical.    Charter said some of the settlements remain subject toappeals and final court approvals and resolve claims againstcharter and its subsidiaries except Independent Petrochemical.    It said about 500 individual claims against it and certainof its units remain pending as disputed claims in bankruptcycourt. It said about 300 of these claims have been filed sinceconfirmation of the joint plan of reorganization.    Charter said its two creditors, an equity committee in itsbankruptcy proceedings and <American Financial Corp>, whichwill own 50.5 pct of its common after the reorganization, havewaived the requirement that Charter resolve all dioxin-relatedclaims against it prior to completing its reorganization.    That requirement excludes claims against IndependentPetrochemical. Charter also said a plan for liquidation ofIndependent has been approved by the bankruptcy court and willbe completed after March 31.    Earlier, Charter reported net income for the year of 153.2mln dlrs, which included a gain of 28.5 mln dlrs fordiscontinued operations and 114.8 mln dlrs for the settlementof claims in its reorganization proceedings.    In 1985, it reported earnings of 1,274,000 dlrs, whichincluded a loss of 36.3 mln dlrs for discontinued operationsand 29.4 mln dlrs for extraordinary items.    For the fourth quarter, it reported earnings of 118.8 mlndlrs, including a gain of 28.6 mln dlrs for discontinuedoperations and 90.5 mln dlrs mainly for claims settlements. Inthe year-ago period, Charter reported a loss of 13 mln dlrs. Reuter
TRINTOC, UNION CARBIDE TO BUILD METHANOL PLANT Trinidad and Tobago isfinalizing arrangements with Union Carbide <UK> of the UnitedStates and Snamprogetti of Italy for the construction of a1,500 tonnes per day methanol plant, Energy Minister KelvinRamnath said.    Ramnath said the ministry is now holding talks with UnionCarbide on the price of natural gas to be used in the plant,which will be constructed near the Trinidad and Tobago oilcompany (Trintoc) refinery at Point Fortin on the west coast.    Snamprogetti built the first methanol refinery on trinidadfive years ago.    Trintoc is likely to put up land, refinery plant andmachinery as equity. If negotiations go smoothly, ramnath said,construction could begin by next january.    The government of prime minister A.N.R. Robinson is hopingto lue new investors to the twin-island state's petrochemicalindustry, in order to make use of new findings of natural gas. Reuter
CIBA-GEIGY, PHILLIPS PETROLEUM IN JOINT VENTURE Ciba-Geigy AG <CIGZ.Z> said it wouldestablish a joint venture with Phillips Petroleum Co. In Europeto manufacture a high performance engineering thermoplastic.    Initially, the Swiss chemicals firm will manufacturepolyphenylene sulfide compounds using resins from Phillips.    The two firms will later set up a joint venture to producethe polyphenylene resins and compounds, which will be marketedindependently under their respective trademarks. A Ciba-Geigyspokesman declined to say how much the venture would cost.    Polyphenylene sulfide is widely used in the electronic,automotive, and petroleum fields. REUTER
HENLEY GROUP <HENG> UNIT WINS TAIWAN CONTRACT Henley Group Inc's M.W. Kellogg Co unitsaid it was selected by <Chinese Petroleum Corp> to design,engineer and build a ethylene plant at ChinesePetroleum's Kaohsiung refinery in Taiwan.    Terms of the contract were not disclosed, but Kellogg saidthe total cost of the plant will be 300 mln dlrs.    Kellogg said engineering of the plant, which will have acapacity of 400,000 tonnes a year, is already underway andconstruction will begin in 1988.    The plant will go into operation in 1990, Kellogg said. Reuter
DOW<DOW> RAISES STYRENE-BUTADIENE LATEX PRICES Dow Chemical Co said itincreased prices by nine cts a pound (solids) forstyrene-butadiene latex and plastic pigments, effective MayOne. Dow did not release the percentage increase.    It said the increase will affect the floor coveringmarkets, paper, paperboard and specialty markets.    It said the increase is in addition to a previouslyannounced seven cts a pound (solids) increase, effective MarchOne. Reuter
DOW <DOW> AMENDS RESINS PRICE INCREASE Dow Chemical Co's ThermoplasticResin Department said it is amending a recent price increasefor Magnum ABS (A) resins announced March 3 for an effectivedate of April 1.    Dow said that effective April 15 the selling prices formost grades of Magnum ABS resins for the injection molding,custom sheet and automotive markets will rise six cts a pound,instead of the three cts a pound announced previously.    Dow also said that the selling prices for performancegrades of the resins to the same markets will increase eightcts a pound, rather than five cts as announced before.    The company said that Magnum ABS resins for pipe extensionwill increase three cts a pound, effective April 9, aspreviously reported.    Dow said it altered the increase to reflect changes in theindustry over the past month. Reuter
ZIMBABWE BANS POLYPROPYLENE BAGS FOR OILSEEDS Zimbabwe's Grain Marketing Board hasbanned the packing of oilseeds in locally-made polypropylenebags and will supply jute bags instead, board officials said.    It said the quality of oilseeds such as soybeans,groundnuts and sunflower seed packed in polypropylene bagsdeteriorated after two weeks.    Zimbabwe began producing 10 mln polypropylene grain bagsthis year to replace jute bags imported mainly from Bangladesh. REUTER
MORTON THIOKOL <TKI> UNIT TO MARKET RESINS Morton Thiokol Inc said its MortonChemical Division entered into an agreement with <MitsubishiChemical Industries Ltd>, Japan, to market extrudable adhesiveresins based on Mitsubishi's Novatec AP product linetechnology.    It said the resins are used in a broad range ofapplications, including barrier co-extrusion with nylon andEthylene-Vinylalcohol Copolymer for film, sheet and bottles. Reuter
SOUTH KOREA TO PAY MORE FOR JAPANESE ETHYLENE South Korea will pay about 20 pct more forethylene imported from Japan in the second quarter of the yearbecause increased plastic production in both countries hasboosted demand and tightened supplies, chemical industrysources said.    South Korea has agreed to pay Japanese trading houses justover 400 dlrs C and F per tonne, up from an average of 350 dlrsin the first quarter and throughout 1986, they said.    South Korean demand for imported ethylene this month hasrisen to 17,000 tonnes from 10,000 last month, and the countrymay face difficulties covering the extra volume, they said.    <Korea Petrochemical Industries Corp>, a producer of highdensity polyethylene (HDPE) and polypropylene, will more thandouble its ethylene requirements to 9,000 tonnes a month from4,000 when it completes a plant expansion at the end of thismonth, the sources said.    <Honan Ethylene Corp's> import requirements have risen to8,000 tonnes a month from 6,000 tonnes last year to meet strongdemand from <Honan Petrochemical Co>, which makes HDPE andethylene glycol, and <Hangyang Chemical>, which produceslow-density polyethylene and vinyl chloride monomer, they said.    But Japan's ethylene plants are already operating at almostfull capacity of 4.5 mln tonnes a year just to fulfill domesticdemand, the sources said.    "And even if Japan had the additional ethylene, there is alogistical problem of finding extra appropriate-sized vesselsto ship it to Korea," said one trading house source.    Japanese trading companies are looking to alternativesources to supply South Korea's needs, including Saudi Arabia,Qatar and Mexico, they said.    But long-haul voyages are expensive as the product has tobe shipped at a temperature of minus 103 degrees centigrade tokeep it in a liquid form, they said.    Japan has no plans to invest further in the ethyleneindustry in order to cope with the additional demand, despiterising prices, trading house sources said.    South Korea has two projects in hand which will increaseits ethylene production capacity by 500,000 tonnes a year bythe end of 1989, so the strong demand surge for imports is onlya medium-term trend, they said. REUTER
ITALY'S ENI TO INVEST IN VENEZUELAN PROJECTS Italy's state-owned Ente NazionaleIdrocarburi (ENI) will invest 197 mln dlrs in two jointventures in coal and petrochemicals with Petroleos deVenezuela, S.A, ENI president Franco Reviglio said.    Speaking at a news conference, Reviglio said the twoprojects will eventually bring in some 300 mln dlrs annually inforeign exchange to Venezuela and help diversify the country'sexport base. "Joint ventures are the principal instrument forallowing the resources of the industrialized countries to bechanneled to the developing world so as to lead future growthfor both," Reviglio said.    ENI's subsidiary Ecofuel will join Pequiven, thepetrochemical subsidiary of PDVSA in building a 160 mln dlrplant to produce mtbe, a gasoline additive used to increaseoctane levels.    The 500,000 mt per year plant will be constructed at Josein eastern Venezuela, and fed by butane produced at PDVSA'seastern cryogenic complex. ENI owns 48 pct of the joint venturecompany, Super Octanos, C.A., while Pequiven has 49 pct, withthe remaining three pct to be sold to private investors.    Production is set to begin in third quarter 1989. Ecofuelofficials said the plant is modeled after one in Saudi Arabia.    Another ENI subsidiary, Agip Carbone, will sign a letter ofintent in Caracas tomorrow to enter a partnership with PDVSA tomine the coal deposits at guasare in western zulia state, hesaid.    Feasibility studies are still being done on the carbozuliaproject, with a definitive accord slated for august, he added.    Agip carbone and atlantic richfield coal, an arcosubsidiary have formed a consortium which will own 48 pct ofthe carbozulia project, whose total cost is estimated at 500mln dlrs, the company said. Agip carbone will invest 24 pct, or120 mln dlrs, in the project, it said. Reuter
ENERGY/U.S. PETROCHEMICAL INDUSTRY Cheap oil feedstocks, the weakened U.S.dollar and a plant utilization rate approaching 90 pct willpropel the streamlined U.S. petrochemical industry to recordprofits this year, with growth expected through at least 1990,major company executives predicted.    This bullish outlook for chemical manufacturing and anindustrywide move to shed unrelated businesses has prompted GAFCorp <GAF>, privately-held Cain Chemical Inc, and other firmsto aggressively seek acquisitions of petrochemical plants.    Oil companies such as Ashland Oil Inc <ASH>, theKentucky-based oil refiner and marketer, are also shopping formoney-making petrochemical businesses to buy.    "I see us poised at the threshold of a golden period," saidPaul Oreffice, chairman of giant Dow Chemical Co <DOW>, adding,"There's no major plant capacity being added around the worldnow. The whole game is bringing out new products and improvingthe old ones."    Analysts say the chemical industry's biggest customers,automobile manufacturers and home builders that use a lot ofpaints and plastics, are expected to buy quantities this year.    U.S. petrochemical plants are currently operating at about90 pct capacity, reflecting tighter supply that could hikeproduct prices by 30 to 40 pct this year, said John Dosher,managing director of Pace Consultants Inc of Houston. Demandfor some products such as styrene could push profit margins upby as much as 300 pct, he said.    Oreffice, speaking at a meeting of chemical engineers inHouston, said Dow would easily top the 741 mln dlrs it earnedlast year and predicted it would have the best year in itshistory.    In 1985, when oil prices were still above 25 dlrs a barreland chemical exports were adversely affected by the strong U.S.dollar, Dow had profits of 58 mln dlrs. "I believe the entirechemical industry is headed for a record year or close to it,"Oreffice said.    GAF chairman Samuel Heyman estimated that the U.S. chemicalindustry would report a 20 pct gain in profits during 1987.Last year, the domestic industry earned a total of 13 billiondlrs, a 54 pct leap from 1985.    The turn in the fortunes of the once-sickly chemicalindustry has been brought about by a combination of luck andplanning, said Pace's John Dosher.    Dosher said last year's fall in oil prices made feedstocksdramatically cheaper and at the same time the American dollarwas weakening against foreign currencies. That helped boostU.S. chemical exports.    Also helping to bring supply and demand into balance hasbeen the gradual market absorption of the extra chemicalmanufacturing capacity created by Middle Eastern oil producersin the early 1980s.    Finally, virtually all major U.S. chemical manufacturershave embarked on an extensive corporate restructuring programto mothball inefficient plants, trim the payroll and eliminateunrelated businesses. The restructuring touched off a flurry offriendly and hostile takeover attempts.    GAF, which made an unsuccessful attempt in 1985 to acquireUnion Carbide Corp <UK>, recently offered three billion dlrsfor Borg Warner Corp <BOR>, a Chicago manufacturer of plasticsand chemicals. Another industry powerhouse, W.R. Grace <GRA> has divested its retailing, restaurant and fertilizerbusinesses to raise cash for chemical acquisitions.    But some experts worry that the chemical industry may beheaded for trouble if companies continue turning their back onthe manufacturing of staple petrochemical commodities, such asethylene, in favor of more profitable specialty chemicals thatare custom-designed for a small group of buyers.    "Companies like DuPont <DD> and Monsanto Co <MTC> spent thepast two or three years trying to get out of the commoditychemical business in reaction to how badly the market haddeteriorated," Dosher said. "But I think they will eventuallykill the margins on the profitable chemicals in the nichemarket." Some top chemical executives share the concern.    "The challenge for our industry is to keep from gettingcarried away and repeating past mistakes," GAF's Heymancautioned. "The shift from commodity chemicals may beill-advised. Specialty businesses do not stay special long."    Houston-based Cain Chemical, created this month by theSterling investment banking group, believes it can generate 700mln dlrs in annual sales by bucking the industry trend.    Chairman Gordon Cain, who previously led a leveraged buyoutof Dupont's Conoco Inc's chemical business, has spent 1.1billion dlrs since January to buy seven petrochemical plantsalong the Texas Gulf Coast.    The plants produce only basic commodity petrochemicals thatare the building blocks of specialty products.    "This kind of commodity chemical business will never be aglamorous, high-margin business," Cain said, adding that demandis expected to grow by about three pct annually.    Garo Armen, an analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds, saidchemical makers have also benefitted by increasing demand forplastics as prices become more competitive with aluminum, woodand steel products. Armen estimated the upturn in the chemicalbusiness could last as long as four or five years, provided theU.S. economy continues its modest rate of growth. Reuter
SHELL CANADA <SHC.TO> SEES BETTER YEAR Shell Canada Ltd saidperformance in all business segments in the first quartershowed improvement over last year and it expects "significantlyenhanced performance" in 1987.    Shell Canada reported first quarter earnings of 103 mlndlrs, or 90 cts per share, up from 40 mln dlrs, or 32 cts pershare.    Oil products earnings were 38 mln dlrs, up 19 mln dlrs fromlast year, when margins were impaired by lower oil prices.    Shell Canada said chemical earnings were 17 mln dlrs in thequarter, compared with a loss of five mln dlrs in 1986. Thestyrene business saw significant improvement, stemming from anincrease in international demand.    Resources earnings increased by six mln dlrs to 46 mlndlrs. Lower prices for all commodities were offset by theremoval of the Petroleum and Gas Revenue Tax, the impact oflower royalty rates and higher volumes.    Gross production of crude oil and natural gas liquidsincreased seven pct from the first quarter of last year to11,200 cubic meters a day, Shell said.    Shell Canada also said natural gas sales volumes of 19.6mln cubic meters a day was up five pct from last year.    Sulphur sales of 4,143 tonnes a day were up 70 pct.    The company also recorded benefits of 10 mln dlrs from theacquisition of Shell Explorer Ltd. Interest expense for thequarter was lower than in the previous year, due to the earlyretirement of a 200 mln U.S. dlr debenture and the impact of astronger Canadian dollar on U.S. dollar-denominated debt. Reuter
SHELL OIL FIRST QUARTER NET DROPS 61 PCT  Shell Oil Co said first quarter netincome dropped 61 pct over the prior-year quarter on revenuesthat slipped four pct.    "Lower prices for crude oil and natural gas and reducedmargins in our oil and chemical products businesses were themajor factor for the earings decline," John F. Bookout,president, said in a statement.    For the quarter, the company, a unit of Royal Dutch/ShellGroup <RD> <SC>, earned 108 mln dlrs on sales of 4.50 billiondlrs, compared with 276 mln dlrs on sales of 4.67 billion dlrsa year ago.    Bookout said the company is cautiously optimistic oilmarkets will be less volatile in coming months than they werein 1986.    "In coming months, oil products results should benefit fromseasonally higher gasoline volumes," he said.    "However, so long as U.S. product inventories remain high,it may be difficult to fully recover from the depressed marginsof recent periods," he added.    Bookout said the company's chemical products earningsshould benefit from strong performances in chemical salesvolumes and continued high industry operating rates.    Shell said its oil and gas exploration and product segmentearned 110 mln dlrs for the quarter vs 91 mln dlrs in 1986.    It said earnings were hurt by lower selling prices forcrude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. Domestic crudeoil prices averaged 14.24 dlrs a barrel, compared with 19.28dlrs last year, while natural gas prices dropped 24 pct, Shellsaid.    Shell said earnings at its oil products segment plunged by53 mln dlrs, to eight mln dlrs. It said lower refined productselling prices were only partially offset by reduced rawmaterial costs.    The company said earnings from chemical products also fellsharply, to 40 mln dlrs from 72 mln dlrs, due mainly to lowermargins, especially in commodity chemicals, coupled with itspullout from the agricultural chemicals business in October1986.    Shell said capital and exploratory outlays totaled 500 mlndlrs for the quarter, off from 645 mln dlrs. Reuter
VENEZUELA FINANCE MINISTER TO SEEK JAPANESE CREDIT Finance minister Manuel Azpurua said hewill visit Japan in mid-May to seek new credits for plannedexpansion in Venezuela's state-owned aluminum, steel andpetrochemical industries.    Azpurua told reporters he will be accompanied by centralbank president Hernan Anzola and director of public financeJorge Marcano.    "The idea is to hold meetings with Japanese economic andfinancial authorities, with the banks which have business andcredits in Venezuela and with some of the Japanese companiesalready active here," Azpurua said.    Azpurua said he was optimistic about the trip, in light ofJapan's recent announcement it will disburse 30 billion dlrs innew credit to Latin American countries.    "I think this trip is being taken at an opportune time andwill allow us to reveal the potencial which this country holdsfor the Japanese economic community," Azpurua said.    He would not say how much Venezuela will seek in creditsfrom Japan. REUTER
VENEZUELA FINANCE MINISTER TO JAPAN IN MID-MAY Finance Minister Manuel Azpurua saidtoday he will travel to Japan in mid-May to seek new creditsfor planned expansions in Venezuela's state aluminum, steel andpetrochemical industries.    Azpurua told reporters he will be accompanied by CentralBank President Hernan Anzola and Director of Public FinanceJorge Marcano.    'The idea is to hold meetings with Japanese economic andfinancial authorities, with the banks which have business andcredits in Venezuela and with some of the Japanese companiesalready active here,' Azpurua said. Reuter
SEOUL UNVEILS SHOPPING LIST OF U.S. GOODS South Korea unveiled a shopping list of2.6 billion dlrs of U.S. Goods in line with its new policy ofseeking to limiting its trade surplus to ease trade frictionwith Washington.    The government said this would help freeze this year'strade surplus with the United States at the 1986 level.    "The surplus, which rose to 7.4 billion dollars last yearfrom 4.3 billion in 1985, was projected to top 10 billion thisyear but the government has taken steps to constrain it to theseven billion dollar level," one Trade Ministry official toldReuters.    A government statement said the 2.6 billion dlrs was inaddition to about two billion dlrs of purchases made last monthby a South Korean trade mission to the United States.    The announcement follows a visit here this week by U.S.Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige, who said that if SouthKorea wanted to avoid protectionist retaliation it should notfalter in its policies to open its market and cut its surplus.    The statement said the government, state agencies and otherpublic institutions would buy 480 mln dlrs worth of U.S. Cars,computers, helicopters, ambulances, motorcycles, medical andlaboratory equipment and other products. "This amounts includes89 mln dlrs worth of purchases which were not originallyreflected in their budgets," it added.    The list includes 1.13 billion dlrs of capital goods, 700mln of farm products, 50 mln of aluminium, zinc, polyethyleneand other raw materials, and 250 mln of steel, electronics andshipbuilding parts which would be shifted from other nations.    Agriculture Ministry officials said South Korea had alreadybought 310 mln dlrs worth of U.S. Wheat, raw cotton, corn andsoybeans.    This meant the country would buy from the United Statesnearly all of the 1.27 billion dlrs of its planned imports ofsuch commodities this year, they said.    The government will also take steps to reduce tariffs,accelerate the opening of its markets, voluntarily restrainexports and cut export financing, the statement said.    South Korea will also reorganise the country's 3,600 tradeagents to deliver better after-sales services for importedproducts and hold a trade show in November for U.S. Products. Reuter
DOW CHEMICAL <DOW> TO INCREASE PRICES Dow Chemical U.S.A. Midland Cosaid it will increase prices of its high performance thermalfluids, in bulk and drums, effective July One, for contract andspot customers.    The bulk list prices for diphenyl oxide, in both technicaland refined grades, will be raised five pct to 1.26 dlrs perpound for technical and 1.36 dlrs per for refined, Dow said.    Other increases include Dowtherm G to 21.92 dlrs pergallon; Dowtherm HT to 20.94 dlrs per gallon; Dowtherm J to14.96 dlrs per gallon, and Dowtherm LF to 18.68 dlrs pergallon. Reuter
MONSANTO TO BUY RHONE-POULENC POLYPHENYL BUSINESS Monsanto Chemical Company, a unit ofMonsanto Co <MTC.N>, is to acquire the polyphenyls business ofRhone-Poulenc Chimie, a unit of Rhone-Poulenc <RHON.PA>,Monsanto said in a statement issued from its Europeanheadquarters.    The statement did not disclose financial details.    Gustaaf Francx, general manager of Monsanto Chemical CoEurope-Africa, said the acquisition would help Monsanto toexpand its customer base for polyphenyls, which are used ascomponents for high temperature heat transfer fluids. Reuter
B.F. GOODRICH <GR>  CANADA STUDIES PLANT The Quebec government said it joinedwith B.F. Goodrich Canada Inc to study the feasability ofbuilding a vinyl chloride monomer plant in Montreal. The plantwould supply manufacturers of PVC construction and othermaterials in Eastern Canada and the Northeastern U.S.,government officials said.    Theys said the  plant would cost about 125 mln Canadiandlrs, with production beginning in 1991 if economic conditionsare right. more    The Quebec government has said it wants the project toproceed because it would provide future demand for PetromontInc petrochemical products. Petromont is jointly owned by UnionCarbide Canada Ltd <UCC.TO> and the Quebec government's SGFindustrial development group. Its Montreal plant would provideethylene as a raw material for the project.     Quebec said it also wants Interprovincial Pipe Line Ltd<IPIPF.O> to adapt its pipeline from Sarnia, Ont., to Montrealto carry natural gas liquids, a decision that will be made bythe federal National Energy Board. It said the pipeline couldprovide Petromont with feedstock at one-third the cost ofmoving it by rail. Reuter
OCCIDENTAL <OXY> BUYS SHELL VINYL CHLORIDE UNIT Occidental Petroleum Corp said ithas completed the acquisition of Shell Oil Co's vinyl chloridemonomer business for undisclosed terms.    Shell is a subsidiary of Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD> <SC>.    The company said the transaction will allow it to sourceover half its vinyl chloride monomer requirements internally,making it fully integrated in polyvinyl chloride production. Ithas been buying all of its requirements. Reuter
REICHHOLD <RCI> UNIT HIKES PRICES ON PRODUCTS Reichhold Chemicals Inc <RCI.N> saidits emulsion polymers division increased its selling prices ofits polyvinyl acetate and vinyl acetate-acrylate latexes forpaper coating application by between two and four cts per drypound.    The company attributed the price increases to thecontinuing escalation of raw materials costs. Reuter
AMOCO <AN> TO BUILD TAIWAN CHEMICAL PLANT Amoco Corp said a Taiwan petrochemicalventure in which it is part owner plans to build a chemicalplant in Taiwan.    The company said the plant, to be built by China AmericanPetrochemical Co Ltd which is 50 pct owned by Amoco ChemicalCo, will make purified terephthalic acid (PTA), a raw materialused to make polyester fibers.    It said the facility, China American's third PTA plant,will have a capacity of 550 mln pounds of PTA annually.    China American's other two owners are Chinese PetroleumCorp, 25 pct, and Central Investment Holding Co, 25 pct. Reuter
FLUOR <FLR> WINS GENERAL ELECTRIC <GE> CONTRACT Fluor Corp said it won a contractwith General Electric to design, construct and deliver modulesfor a methyl chloride process addition.    The value of the contract was not disclosed.    Fluor said its Applied Engineering Co unit will construct28 modular sections and deliver them to GE's Waterford, N.Y.Silicone Products division plant.    Methyl chloride is an integral part of silicone production. Reuter
INTERNATIONAL LPG PRICES STEADY IN QUIET MARKET International LPG prices were littlechanged in the past week, barely affected by the excitement onthe advent of OPEC's mid-year meeting, traders and industrysources said.    "If the OPEC decides to increase crude oil production," atraders said, "LPG supplies will be up without correspondingrise in demand."    Petrochemical buyers were sidelined, after their foray inthe market early in june, they said.    An industry meeting in Dublin this week also drew manymarket participants away from the trading desk, they added.    Algeria has moved at least two cargoes of propane to theU.S. Gulf, keeping Mediterranean prices steady, traders said.    In the Mideast Gulf, propane appeared easing slightly,after a major U.S. oil company bought propane on formula whichnetted back about 123 dlrs, cif Mideast Gulf, which was twodlrs below Saudi Arabia's government selling price (gsp),industry sources said.    Delivered propane to Japan was quoted at gsp plus 19 dlrsand butane at gsp plus 25 dlrs, the traders said. Reuter
HENLEY <HENG.O> HAS VENEZUELAN REFINERY PROJECT Henley Group Inc's M.W. Kellogg Cosubsidiary said it in consortium with <Inelectra> received acontract from Corpoven S.A., a Venezuelan-owned domestic oilcompany, to revamp and expand its El Palito Refinery.    Kellogg said the installed cost of the work to be performedis estimated to be 130 mln dlrs. Inelectra, Kellogg said, is amajor Venezuelan engineering firm.   Kellog said the project will enable the refinery to produceBTX products -- benzene, toluene, and orthoxylene -- byprocessing naphtha feed from an expanded reformer-hydrotreater.    Kellogg said the refinery's reformer-hydrotreater will beupgraded to 9,500 barrels a day capacity from 7,500.    It said the new BTX process units include aromaticextraction, xylene fractionation, xylene isomerization andthermal hydrodealkylation.    Kellogg pointed out that Venezuela now imports all of itsBTX aromatics. Reuter
OLIN <OLN>, DU PONT <DD> COMPLETE PLANT Olin Corp said construction wascompleted on a 150 mln dlrs chlor/alkali plant it owns jointlywith EI du Pont de Nemours Co.    The company said the plant, which is located in NiagaraFalls, New York, will begin operations in December.    The plant, which has a 660-ton per day capacity, will beoperated by du Pont, the company said. Reuter
