BLACK MINERS SUPPORT S. AFRICAN MINES TAKEOVER Thousands of blackmineworkers roared support for a union proposal to seizecontrol of South Africa's gold, uranium, platinum and coalmines if the owners refuse to improve conditions for migrantblack workers.    About 15,000 miners attended a rally here to endorse movesproposed by last week's annual meeting of the 200,000 strongNational Union of Mineworkers (NUM).    They also supported a proposal for a national strike at theend of this month if the owners refused to begin negotiations.    Migrant workers from surrounding countries make up morethan half of the labour force in the mines.    It was not stated how the union would "seize control."    The miners' leaders also demanded an end to the system ofsingle sex hostels for migrant workers, to be replaced byhousing schemes so that workers could live with their families.    The crowd, one of the largest to attend a meeting sinceSouth Africa declared a state of emergency last June, alsoshouted approval of a proposal to work closely withanti-apartheid movements such as the United Democratic Front(UDF) which claims two mln members. They also shouted theirsupport for a demand that jailed black nationalist leaderNelson Mandela be released. REUTER
CONSOLIDATED TVX TO BUY BRAZIL GOLD MINE STAKES <Consolidated TVX Mining Corp> said itagreed to issue 7.8 mln treasury shares to acquire interests inthree gold mining companies in Brazil and an option to increasethe company's interest in a platinum property.    The company said the transactions will bring immediateproduction and earnings to Consolidated TVX, enhance itsprecious metal potential and is expected to improve cash flowand earnings on a per share basis. The company did not givespecific figures.    Consolidated TVX said it will acquire 29 pct of CMP, apublic gold mining company in which TVX already holds a 15 pctinterest, making TVX the largest single shareholder.    The company also agreed to acquire a 19 pct stake in NovoAstro, a private company, and a 16 pct interest in Teles PiresMining, increasing the TVX's ownership to 51 pct.    In addition, Consolidated TVX said it will acquire theright to add a 10 pct interest to a platinum property in whichit already owns a 29.4 pct stake.    CMP earned 11 mln Canadian dlrs in 1986 and expects toproduce 42,000 ounces of gold in 1987 at a cost of 160 U.S.dlrs an ounce, Consolidated TVX said.    Novo Astro operates Brazil's richest gold mine located inAmapa State, with an average grade of 0.8 ounces of gold a tonin a hardrock quartz vein, Consolidated TVX said. Mining ofeluvial surface material produced 25,000 ounces in 1986 and isexpected to produce 60,000 ounces in 1987.    It also said Teles Pires Mining controls rights to a 350kilometer section of the Teles Pires River, where one dredge isexpected to produce 10,000 ounces of gold in 1987. Reuter
<TECHNIGEN PLATINUM CORP> IN METALS FIND Technigen Platinum corp said itinitial results of a 13-hole drilling program on its R.M. Nicelplatinum property in Rouyn-Noranda, Quebec, indicate"extensive" near-surface zones "highly" enriched in gold,platinum and palladium were found in rocks on the periphery ofa sulphide deposit.    It said values of up to 0.073 ounce of platinum, 0.206ounce palladium, three pct copper and 4.5 pct nickel were foundover a drill section of 13 feet.                   More
TECHNIGEN PLATINUM CORP IN METALS FIND Technigen Platinum corp said initialresults of a 13-hole drilling program on its R.M. Nicelplatinum property in Rouyn-Noranda, Quebec, indicate extensivenear-surface zones highly enriched in gold, platinum andpalladium.    The metals were found in rocks on the periphery of asulphide deposit.    It said values of up to 0.073 ounce of platinum, 0.206ounce palladium, three pct copper and 4.5 pct nickel were foundover a drill section of 13 feet. Reuter
INTN'L PLATINUM, DEGUSSA IN JOINT VENTURE TALKS International Platinum Corp said itsigned a letter of intent to enter into further negotiations ona joint venture exploration agreement with Degussa A.G., ofWest Germany, regarding several North American platinumproperties.    Conclusion of the agreement is subject to completion offurther detailed examination by Degussa, as well as board andregulatory approvals.    Under terms of the letter of intent, Degussa wouldcontribute substantially to a three year exploration budget of4.5 mln dlrs in return for a 50 pct interest in the venture.    Degussa's contribution to the exploration budget will bebased on it matching International Platinum's past explorationand acquisition costs, estimated at about two mln dlrs, andthen contributing on a pro rata basis, International Platinumsaid.    Degussa's contribution would provide a major portion ofInternational Platinum's exploration budget, especially duringthe first and second year of the proposed joint venture, thecompany said. Reuter
JOHNSON MATTHEY'S PLATINUM GROUP PRICES Johnson Matthey today issued thefollowing Platinum group base prices (unfabricated), all U.S.Dlrs per troy ounce. Previous prices in parentheses. PLATINUM  -   562   (567) PALLADIUM -   130   (130) IRIDIUM   -   400   (400) RHODIUM     1,230 (1,230) RUTHENIUM -    80    (80)
LONDON GOLD MORNING FIX HIGHEST SINCE OCTOBER Gold bullion continued to move highersupported by good general buying and was fixed this morning at436.50 dlrs, 268.368 stg, an ounce, up from Friday's close of432.00/50, dealers said.    The setting was the highest since October 8 as gold builton Friday's gains, which had been based on the weakness of thedollar and fears of a trade war between the United States andJapan.    It opened slightly firmer at 433.50/434.00 and moved upsteadily during the morning supported by commission house andtrade buying, dealers said.    Dealers said there was resistance around 440.00 but withsentiment still firm some traders believe the rally may eventake gold as high as 500 dlrs.    Platinum was fixed this morning at 583.50 dlrs an ounce, upfrom Friday's close of 578.50/580.50, and also the highestsetting since October. REUTER
MORE BRITISH GOLD ARTICLES HALLMARKED The number of British gold articleshallmarked during the first quarter of this year rose by morethan 11 pct on the corresponding period last year, figuresreleased by the Assay Offices of Great Britain show.    More than 2.5 mln British items were hallmarked during thequarter, up 11.1 pct on the same year ago period. The fourAssay Offices also marked 832,222 foreign gold articles, up 2.5pct on last year.    In weight terms the 7.19 mln grams of British gold assayedwas a 15.3 pct increase, while the 2.95 mln grams of foreigngold represented a rise of 3.1 pct.    British silver goods assayed totalled 698,132, an increaseof 6.2 pct but only 78,457 foreign items were marked, a fall of11.1 pct.    A total of 10,968 kilos of silver were assayed, an 11.1 pctrise.    The number of platinum items marked fell 12.5 pct to 1,785,while in weight terms the total slipped 8.1 pct to 9,849 grams.    A spokesman for the Assay Offices of Great Britain said hewas particularly encouraged to see the percentage increase forBritish manufactured goods. Reuter
U.S. GOLD, SILVER, PLATINUM SOAR ON VOLCKER REJECTION OF  The International Cocoa Organization(ICCO) buffer stock manager bought 5,000 tonnes of cocoa todayfor the buffer stock, traders said.    The cocoa is believed to have been entirely made up ofsecond hand material, they added.    Such a purchase would bring cumulative buffer stockpurchases to 26,000 tonnes. Reuter
AUSTRALIA TO PRODUCE SILVER AND PLATINUM COINS The Australian government has givensupport in principle to the production of platinum and silverbullion coins at the Perth Mint, Treasurer Paul Keating said.    This followed the success of the Australian Nugget goldbullion coins launched this year, he said in a statement.    He said that, as with the Australian nuggets, the coinswould be legal tender. The platinum coins would be made in fourweights but the silver coin would be of one ounce weight.    He said detailed arrangements for their issue would befinalised after talks between the Federal authorities and theWestern Australian government, owner of the Perth Mint. REUTER
S. AFRICAN UNION OBJECTS TO PLANNED MATTHEY MOVE A South African trade union is indispute with a subsidiary of Britain's Johnson Matthey Plc overthe company's proposal to move a platinum refinery nearJohannesburg to a black tribal homeland.    The 30,000-member mainly black Chemical Workers IndustrialUnion said it fears the planned move to the Bophuthatswanahomeland, where South African unions are not recognised, couldlead to job losses and affect wages.    A mass dismissal last year at the Impala Platinum HoldingsLtd <IPLA.J> mines in the tribal homeland sent world platinumprices rocketing.    The union said talks with management over the proposed movehad broken down. It said an earlier ballot of refinery workersshowed that most favoured striking over the move but added thatno final decision had been taken on strike action.    The refinery processes all platinum metals of RustenburgPlatinum Holdings Ltd, the world's largest platinum producer.    It is owned by Matthey Rustenburg Ltd, a joint-subsidiaryof Johnson Matthey and Rustenburg which, in turn, is owned bymining group Johannesburg Consolidated Investment Co Ltd. Reuter
PLATINUM DEMAND ESTIMATED 17 PCT HIGHER BY 1991 Demand for platinum could reach 3.4 mlnounces by 1991, compared with an estimated offtake of 2.88 mlnin 1986, Chris Clark, platinum marketing director for JohnsonMatthey Plc said.    Clark told a meeting of the Minerals Research Organisationin Milton Keynes he foresaw a 250,000 ounce increase inconsumption for use in autocatalysts, currently the largestsingle application for platinum.    Jewellery consumption is set to rise by 70,000 ounces,Clark predicted in his speech, the text of which was releasedin London today.    Clark said his forecast allowed for only a modest furtherincrease in investment buying and may well be cautious.    He said South Africa was the most likely source ofadditional supplies and will need to increase output by about500,000 ounces to meet increased demand.    The capital investment required to produce the additionaloutput would be around one billion U.S. Dlrs and the politicalclimate may make it difficult to raise the money, he said.    The Soviet Union, whose exports have declined since the1970s, might increase sales to the West by about 50,000 ounces,Clark said.    "The very probability of a growth in demand set against themassive investment required for expansion - and that expansiononly being viable in South Africa or Russia - leads me toconclude that the price of platinum will be substantiallyunderpinned in the medium to long-term," Clark said. REUTER
