INDONESIAN AGRICULTURE GROWTH EXPECTED TO SLOW Indonesia"s agriculture sector will growby just 1.0 pct in calendar 1987, against an estimated 2.4 pctin 1986 as the production of some commodities stagnates ordeclines, the U.S. Embassy said in a report.    Production of Indonesia"s staple food, rice, is forecast tofall to around 26.3 mln tonnes from an embassy estimate of26.58 mln tonnes in 1986, according to the annual report onIndonesia"s agricultural performance.    The government officially estimates 1986 rice production at26.7 mln tonnes, with a forecast 27.3 mln tonnes output in1987.    The report says wheat imports are likely to fall to 1.5 mlntonnes in calendar 1987 from 1.69 mln tonnes in 1986 because ofa drawdown on stocks.    "Growth prospects for agriculture in 1987 do not lookpromising as rice production is forecast to decline and theproduction of sugarcane, rubber and copra show little or nogain," the report says.    "The modest overall increase which is expected will be dueto significant gains in production of corn soybeans, palm oiland palm kernels."    Constraints to significant overall increases inagricultural output include a shortage of disease resistantseeds, limited fertile land, insect pests and a reluctance byfarmers to shift from rice production to other crops, thereport underlines.    The fall in rice production is caused by an outbreak ofpests known as "wereng" or brown plant hoppers in 1986 whichlargely offset gains in yields.    The outbreak has forced the government to ban the use of 57insecticides on rice because it was believed the wereng are nowresistant to these varieties, and to use lower-yielding, moreresistant rice types.    The government is depending on increased production ofexport commodities such as coffee, tea, rubber, plywood andpalm oil to offset revenue losses brought on by falling crudeoil prices.    Palm oil production is expected to increase by over 7.0 pctin 1987 to 1.45 mln tonnes from 1.35 mln, with exports risingto an estimated 720,000 tonnes from 695,000 tonnes in 1986, thereport says.    But while production of soybeans in 1987/88 (Oct-Sept) willrise to 1.075 mln tonnes from 980,000 in 1986/87, imports willalso rise to supply a new soybean crushing plant.    The report says that imports of wheat, soybeans, soybeanmeal and cotton are not likely to decline as a result of lastSeptember"s 31 pct devaluation of the rupiah because of a risein domestic demand.    The report said that Indonesia"s overall economicperformance in calendar 1986 was about zero or even a slightnegative growth rate, the lowest rate of growth since themid-1960s. It compares with 1.9 pct growth in 1985 and 6.7 pctin 1984.    The dramatic fall in oil prices last year was responsiblefor the slump. REUTER
OREGON LUMBER COMPANY TO SELL WOOD TO IRAQ A Portland-based woodproducts company has signed a 13 mln dlr contract with theIraqi government to supply finished softwood lumber to Iraq,Edward Niedermeyer, president of Niedermeyer-Martin Co saidyesterday.    Niedermeyer told the House Foreign Affairs sub-committee onInternational Economic Policy and Trade in Washington that thesales agreement contains an option that could make lumberexported worth more than 20 mln dlrs.    The delivery of about 8.0 mln dlrs worth of plywood, inaddition to lumber, hinges on whether the U.S. Department ofAgriculture will interpret plywood as an agricultural commodityunder the credit guarantee program, he said.    Niedermeyer said the government export credit guaranteeprogram (GSM-102) administered by the USDA was the key toopening the Iraqi market which up to now had been captured byScandinavian lumber producers.    "This is the first time we have been able to sell woodproducts in Iraq, he said. Without the USDA program it wouldnot have been possible. We hope this will lead to a long termexport market for U.S. lumber products."    He said the contract calls for supplying 21 mln board feetto 30 mln board feet of softwood lumber for housing,construction and furniture manufacturing. He estimated theprofit potential for his company on the sale at five to sixpct.    Niedermeyer spent two weeks in Baghdad negotiating the salelate last month and early March. He is a member of the UnitedStates-Iraq Business Forum, a non-profit group designed topromote commerce with Iraq.    The forum members include Westinghouse and GeneralElectric, but Niedermeyer's company is the only wood productsfirm on the membership roster. Reuter
USDA CORRECTS TURKEY CREDIT ANNOUNCEMENT The U.S. Agriculture Department saidan announcement by the department yesterday concerning 15.0 mlndlrs in additional credit guarantees for exports of U.S.commodities to Turkey contained two inaccuracies.    First, the USDA said its announcement should not have saidthat plywood was excluded from the additional three mln dlrs inGSM-102 credit guarantees for lumber.    The original announcement said the guarantees includedthree mln dlrs for lumber, except plywood.    Melvin Sims, USDA general sales manager, told Reuters hedid not anticipate any plywood would be included in the sales,but that "it's possible it would be."    Plywood in the past has not been eligible for GSM-102credit guarantees because it is considered by some to be amanufactured product. Members states of the Organization forEconomic Cooperation and Development have pledged not to offerconcessional credits on manufactured products, Sims said.    However, the Reagan administration is considering whetherto allow plywood sales to be covered by the credit guaranteeprogram, Sims said.    Second, the USDA announcement said 6.0 mln dlrs of apreviously announced 6.0-mln dlr line for tallow under GSM-102was available for both public and private sector importers.    In fact, the line of credit guarantees for tallow isavailable only for public sector importers, Walter Stern,Foreign Agricultural Service Turkey analyst, said. Reuter
PLYWOOD CREDITS EYED BY REAGAN ADMINISTRATION The Reagan administration is debatingwhether to provide government credit guarantees for the exportof plywood, a U.S. Agriculture Department official said.    As a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperationand Development, OECD, the United States has agreed not toprovide any concessional credits on the export of manufacturedproducts.    However, USDA General Sales Manager Melvin Sims toldReuters the administration is considering allowing USDA toprovide its first export credit guarantees for plywood on thegrounds it is not a manufactured product.    Sims said it was clear that wood products such asfurniture, tables and window frames would be consideredmanufactured goods and therefore ineligible for export creditguarantees. However, the case of plywood was less clear.    "As long as it's a basic material, we consider it still justa processed version of the basic agricultural commodity," Simssaid in a telephone interview.    Earlier today, USDA said that plywood was eligible under anexport credit guarantee offer for Turkey announced yesterday.In its original announcement yesterday, USDA had said the offerincluded three mln dlrs for the export of lumber, excludingplywood. However, Sims said he did not expect any plywoodexports to be including under the lumber guarantee offer. Reuter
