COLD STORAGE REPORT FOR BELLIES NEUTRAL/NEGATIVE Chicago Mercantile Exchange floortraders' immediate reaction to the cold storage report for porkbellies was neutral to slightly negative.    Frozen pork belly stocks at 34.5 mln lbs on March 1compared with a revised 34.9 mln lbs on February 1 for a netout movement of 0.5 mln lbs.    The number on hand compared with trade guesses of 33.5 to36 mln lbs and the year ago figure of 51.2 mln lbs.    Traders said the figure was toward the upper end ofexpectations and may provide slight downward pressure becauseof recent sharp gains in futures. Reuter
LITTLE EFFECT SEEN FROM COLD STORAGE REPORT The USDA monthly cold storage reportfor meats is expected to have little, if any, effect onlivestock and meat futures at the Chicago Mercantile ExchangeMonday and daily fundamentals will likely provide the bulk ofdirection, livestock analysts said.    The increase of 66.4 mln lbs in total poultry offsets the22.6 mln lbs decline in total red meats. Fundamentals mayprovide most of the direction in futures on Monday, they said.    "I think the market is going to be looking at some otherthings and accentuate whatever the action of cash markets mightbe early next week," Jerry Gidel, livestock analyst for GHMiller, said.    Shearson Lehman livestock analyst Chuck Levitt said futureswill be in the shadow of a little larger seasonal hogmarketings pace next week. Also, Easter ham business wascompleted this week and there may be less aggressive interestfor pork in general next week.    "We needed some help from the cold storage report to averta possible setback next week in the pork complex," Levitt said.    Analysts agreed with CME floor traders and called the bellyfigure neutral to slightly negative. Although belly stocks weredown 33 pct from last year, they exceeded the averageexpectation and actually showed a lighter than expected declinefrom last month due to an adjustment to last month's holdings,they said.    However, analysts noted that the amount of bellies put instorage has been light since the beginning of March and this isa potentially bullish situation.    Glenn Grimes, agronomist at the University of Missouri,said, "I would not look for (belly) storage during the nextmonth or two to be heavier than a year ago - I think it will beless." Reuter
USDA REPORTS SEEN NEGATIVE TO LIVESTOCK FUTURES Commission house livestock analystsagreed with Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders incalling today's USDA 13-state quarterly cattle on feed reportand cold storage report for pork bellies negative.    June live cattle futures are called 0.20 to 0.50 cent loweron Monday and back months of cattle are expected 0.50 to 1.00cent lower. Pork bellies are expected 0.50 to 1.00 cent or morelower, the analysts said.    Disappointment was voiced over the placement and total onfeed figures in the cattle report. Both the quarterly sectionand monthly 7-state part showed the amount placed on feed andon feed numbers at the high end of expectations.    The other disappearance figure of only three pct above ayear ago in the 7-state section was also vieved as negative.Most of the early guesses predicted a much larger number fordeath loss following the two winter snow storms that struck thewest in late March, they said.    However, weight groupings were friendly to the nearbyfutures and should prompt some bull spreading on the decline,they said.    William Arndt from Dean Witter noted that the 900 to 1,100lb steers and 700 to 900 lb heifers were at 94 pct of a yearago and should lend some support to June futures. However, 700to 900 lb steers at 119 pct will weigh on August, he said.    "The big reduction in cattle weighing over 900 lbs shouldbe friendly to the market for at least the next 30 to 60 days,"AGE Clearing analyst Jerry Abbenhaus said.    Movement of bellies into frozen storage was at the high endof expectations and should weigh on futures tomorrow,especially as futures prices ended weak today, they said.    Other parts of the cold storage report were also viewed asnegative to livestock and meat futures.    "We have a lot of poultry in storage. Even though we havesmaller pork supplies, the decline is not enough to offset theincreases in poultry," Shearson Lehman analyst Chuck Levittsaid. Also, there is more beef in storage than last year andthis was achieved on smaller production. Reuter
