S.AFRICA'S FINANCIAL RAND SEEN HEADED HIGHER The financial rand, widely viewedas a direct reflection of foreign investor confidence in SouthAfrica, appears headed above 30 U.S. Cents, dealers and bankeconomists said.    The currency has risen about 25 pct in the past threemonths to its current rate of 29.50 cents, due partly to signsof a possible power shift with the appearance of a number ofindependent candidates in the whites-only election on May 6,they added.    It has risen about two cents this week alone.    "Another factor is that banks in London, where the mainmarket is based, are going long in the currency because of ageneral feeling that it will rise in the future," one economistsaid.    Dealers described 30 cents as a psychological barrier thatwas expected to be broken soon after a brief consolidationphase from recent gains.    After reaching 30 cents, "There is a chance of appreciationto 32 cents in the next several weeks," one dealer said.    There was a widespread feeling that both the commercialrand, holding stable at 48 cents, and the financial rand werestaying firm, banking sources said.    A Barclays National Bank executive who asked not to beidentified said: "The rise of the independents appears to beindicative of a potential shift of power in the National Partyand has created a favourable sentiment overseas."    One dealer said growing business and investor interest fromWest Germany and Switzerland were behind the financial rand'srise.    Economists said foreigners also were being attracted bySouth Africa's long-term government bonds and "semi-gilts" orsecurities in partly government-owned firms, many with yieldsas high as 30 pct. They could be purchased with financial randswith interest paid in commercial rands.    "This has had a definite influence on the financial form ofthe rand," a dealer said, adding that at present demand isslightly in excess of supply.    The financial rand was reintroduced in September 1985 tohelp end capital flight from South Africa during a period ofsevere political unrest in the country. REUTER
SOUTH AFRICA PROBLEMS REMAIN DESPITE DEBT PACT South Africa's new foreign debtagreement sparked a rally in local financial markets, butbankers and economists said the pact removes only one source ofanxiety from a still depressed economy.    "We have not gone from 'no confidence' to 'full confidence'yet," commented one banker, who saw the agreement as havingmarginal influence on fundamental economic problems.    Money market analysts cited the debt renegotiation as themain impetus behind increases today in both the commercial andfinancial rand.    The commercial rand, used for current account transactions,rose 0.5 cts to 49 U.S. Cts while the financial rand jumpednearly two cts to 33 U.S. Cts.    All equity and fixed investment flows of foreigners takeplace through the financial rand, which is considered the mainbarometer of South Africa's attractiveness to overseasinvestors.    Analysts predicted the debt arrangement plus further gainsin the gold price could push the commercial rand over 50 U.S.Cts and the financial rand to 35 cents in the next few weeks.    They said the financial rand in particular was being drivenby a tentative provision in the new debt agreement that couldfavorably affect the currency.    Foreign creditors may get permission to convert loanbalances and short-term claims into equity investments in SouthAfrica.    Finance Minister Barend du Plessis said the Reserve Bankwas "investigating the implications of such conversions in lightof terms and restrictions of the financial rand system."    Du Plessis in disclosing the new agreement last night saidthe recent sharp rise in the financial rand was an example that"some foreign investors are again taking a more realistic viewof South Africa."    Terms of the debt agreement call for South Africa to repay1.42 billion dlrs of 13 billion dlrs of frozen debt over thenext three years. The agreement extends a standstillarrangement, expiring June 30, that has been in place sinceAugust, 1985.    Bankers said the repayment amounts essentially confirmedtheir private estimates and could be comfortably met by themonetary authorities.    "They (creditors) asked for the maximum amount and weoffered the minimum," said one banking source, reacting toreports from London that creditors were hoping for largerrepayments.    Reserve Bank governor Gerhard de Kock said South Africashould have "no difficulty whatsoever" with the terms.    Economists said the debt agreement would have nosignificant impact on economic problems continuing to faceSouth Africa including high rates of inflation andunemployment, labour unrest and political uncertainty.    Johannesburg Stock Exchange president Tony Norton, speakingyesterday before the debt agreement, said the economy was "inbad shape" and there was "an awful lot of talk but little action"to cure serious problems. REUTER
VOLKSKAS BANK SEES RAND HINGING ON INFLATION RATE South Africa must drive down itsinflation rate to much lower levels to prevent a furtherdecline in the rand, said Volkskas Bank in its monthly economicreview.    The bank said that without a major drop in the inflationrate, the rand was bound to eventually decrease even more,regardless of a sharp rise in the gold price.    Inflation is running at an annual rate of some 17 pct andthe rand is around 49.53 U.S. Cents. Most economists estimatecontinued high inflation.    Volkskas predicted the rand will remain fairly steady forthe rest of 1987 and then ease slightly next year. REUTER
