INDONESIAN AGRICULTURE GROWTH EXPECTED TO SLOW Indonesia"s agriculture sector will growby just 1.0 pct in calendar 1987, against an estimated 2.4 pctin 1986 as the production of some commodities stagnates ordeclines, the U.S. Embassy said in a report.    Production of Indonesia"s staple food, rice, is forecast tofall to around 26.3 mln tonnes from an embassy estimate of26.58 mln tonnes in 1986, according to the annual report onIndonesia"s agricultural performance.    The government officially estimates 1986 rice production at26.7 mln tonnes, with a forecast 27.3 mln tonnes output in1987.    The report says wheat imports are likely to fall to 1.5 mlntonnes in calendar 1987 from 1.69 mln tonnes in 1986 because ofa drawdown on stocks.    "Growth prospects for agriculture in 1987 do not lookpromising as rice production is forecast to decline and theproduction of sugarcane, rubber and copra show little or nogain," the report says.    "The modest overall increase which is expected will be dueto significant gains in production of corn soybeans, palm oiland palm kernels."    Constraints to significant overall increases inagricultural output include a shortage of disease resistantseeds, limited fertile land, insect pests and a reluctance byfarmers to shift from rice production to other crops, thereport underlines.    The fall in rice production is caused by an outbreak ofpests known as "wereng" or brown plant hoppers in 1986 whichlargely offset gains in yields.    The outbreak has forced the government to ban the use of 57insecticides on rice because it was believed the wereng are nowresistant to these varieties, and to use lower-yielding, moreresistant rice types.    The government is depending on increased production ofexport commodities such as coffee, tea, rubber, plywood andpalm oil to offset revenue losses brought on by falling crudeoil prices.    Palm oil production is expected to increase by over 7.0 pctin 1987 to 1.45 mln tonnes from 1.35 mln, with exports risingto an estimated 720,000 tonnes from 695,000 tonnes in 1986, thereport says.    But while production of soybeans in 1987/88 (Oct-Sept) willrise to 1.075 mln tonnes from 980,000 in 1986/87, imports willalso rise to supply a new soybean crushing plant.    The report says that imports of wheat, soybeans, soybeanmeal and cotton are not likely to decline as a result of lastSeptember"s 31 pct devaluation of the rupiah because of a risein domestic demand.    The report said that Indonesia"s overall economicperformance in calendar 1986 was about zero or even a slightnegative growth rate, the lowest rate of growth since themid-1960s. It compares with 1.9 pct growth in 1985 and 6.7 pctin 1984.    The dramatic fall in oil prices last year was responsiblefor the slump. REUTER
GOODRICH <GR> TO PHASE OUT SOME BUSINESSES B.F. Goodrich Co said it will phaseout the production of aircraft tires, missile and marineproducts and molded rubber products in Akron, Ohio, by the endof 1987, laying off about 790 salaried, production, maintenanceand support services employees.    The company said layoffs will start within the next fewweeks.    Goodrich said it will continue to make chemicals andadhesives in Akron, employing about 356.  Another 5000 salariedemployees in Akron work for Goodrich.    The company said it has not been able to operate thebusinesses being discontinued in Akron profitably enough tojustify the large investment that it has in them.    Goodrich said it will continue to make aircraft tires atNorwood, N.C., and sonar domes at Jacksonville, Fla., and willrelocate its molded rubber products business to a site not yetchosen.  It said it will stop making insulators for missiles.    Goodrich said it is prepared to discuss with officials ofthe United Rubber Workers Union severance benefits for affectedemployees and issues related to the continued operation inAkron of the chemical and adhesives businesses and to thephaseout of the Akron aircraft tire, missile and marine andmolded rubber products manufacturing.    A company spokesman said it does not expect any adverseimpact on earnings from the move. Reuter
MALAYSIA RE-IMPOSES EXPORT DUTIES ON RUBBER The Malaysian government said ithas re-imposed export duties on rubber at 3/8 cent per kiloafter the gazetted price moved above the threshold price of 210cents per kilo.    The gazetted price, effective March 1, rose to 213-1/2cents per kilo from February's 207.    The duty for research remains at 3.85 cents per kilo andthe replanting duty is also unchanged at 9.92 cents. REUTER
JAPAN FIRM DEVELOPS ULTRA HEAT-RESISTING RUBBER Shin-Etsu Chemical Co Ltd said it haddeveloped an ultra thermal resistance rubber which can be usedat 250 centigrade continuously without losing its properties.    Shin-Etsu put potential demand for the product at twotonnes a month mainly for microwave ovens and as a sealant.    But increasing use of the product in parts attached to carengines will raise demand and the company will boost output to10 tonnes by March 1988 from two now, he said. Reuter
LEAF DISEASE HITS SRI LANKA RUBBER A leaf disease affecting seven pct ofSri Lanka's rubber plantations may reduce output this year andraise currently depressed prices, industry officials andresearchers told Reuters.    About 2,900 hectares of rubber planted with the RubberResearch Institute (RRI) clone 103 have been hit by the fungus"corenes pora" which attacks the roots of the tree and kills theleaves. The disease was first discovered about six months ago.    Trade sources say prices might boom once again if thecrisis leads to output below the 1987 target of 143,000 tonnes.Last year's output is estimated at between 133,000 and 135,000tonnes.    Researchers say the fungus could spread to other rubberclones if no immediate action is taken.    "The RRI is considering asking estates to remove the treesseriously affected by the fungus because it was too late to usechemicals to kill the disease," an Institute spokesman said.    Senior industry and research officials met yesterday atPadukka, east of here, to discuss ways of controlling thefungus which is affecting estates mostly belonging to the StatePlantations Corp and Janatha Estates Development Board.    The two state-owned groups account for 30 pct of rubberland with the balance belonging to small private producers witha total of 145,600 hectares.    The RRIC 103 is a new clone propagated by the ResearchInstitute as high yielding and recommended two years ago forplanting. Only the two state groups seriously planted theseclones while smallholders preferred the low-yielding but olderPBX Malaysian clones.    Officials at yesterday's crisis meeting said it was decidedto uproot only some of the affected trees while others would betreated. They declined to comment on other decisions taken.    Trade sources said supplies had improved in the past weekbut prices had hit their lowest since last December. "If thereis a shortage of rubber, prices are bound to rise," a spokesmanfor a company buying on behalf of the Soviet Union said.    Rubber prices, particularly crepe, fell sharply by aboutfour rupees a kilo between December and March. The best crepeone-X traded at 23.68 rupees a kilo, averaged 19.75 at thisweek's auction. Sheet prices fell by a rupee in the sameperiod.    Quantities offered at the auction also fell to an averageof 300 tonnes per auction last month from 800 tonnes inDecember because of wintering in early February in producingareas.    Over 550 tonnes were offered at this Tuesday's auction withthe supply position showing improvements.    Trade sources said the smaller availability of rubber lastmonth did not raise prices as on previous occasions.    "Some factors, like less storage space from excess stocks,meant we could not buy much at the auction until we disposed ofthe rubber we already had," one buyer said.    Other sources said there were few forward contracts andspeculative buying last month, while delays in steamer arrivalsaggravated the problem.    European buyers delayed their purchases because of winterclosures of factories and also in the hope that prices wouldease further.    They said another problem that could hit the industry isthe dry spell in producing areas. "If the inter-monsoonal rainsexpected in late March/April are delayed, we would have furthershortages," one official said.    "But this again could benefit prices," a buyer said. Reuter
THAI NATURAL RUBBER EXPORTS RISE IN 1986 Thai natural rubber exports rose to763,331 tonnes in 1986 from 689,964 a year earlier, the privateBoard of Trade said.    Japan, the biggest buyer, imported 384,622 tonnes of Thairubber in 1986, up from 348,855 the previous year, it said.    Other major buyers were the U.S. At 86,383 tonnes, up from81,629 in 1985, China 69,952 (60,296) and West Germany 32,172(25,909).    Exports to France rose to 20,479 tonnes from 12,143 in1985, Austria 6,048 (4,104), and Italy 4,014 tonnes (1,340). REUTER
MALAYSIA SAYS RUBBER PACT DEPENDS ON CONSUMERS Malaysia said the success of talksopening today on a new International Natural Rubber Agreement(INRA) depends on how flexible consumer countries are.    Rubber producer and consumer countries meet for 12 days inGeneva from tomorrow to try to hammer out a rubber pact afterthey failed to reach agreement last November to replace thecurrent accord, which expires next October.    Primary Industries Minister Lim Keng Yaik said in astatement that Malaysia wants to continue with a second INRAand is prepared to accept modifications that would strengthenthe present agreement.    He said the second INRA would allow for an orderly disposalof the accumulated buffer stock of 375,000 tonnes, since themarket is now capable of absorbing such releases. Reuter
RUBBER PRODUCERS, CONSUMERS START NEW PACT TALKS The chairman of the conference on a newInternational Natural Rubber Agreement (INRA), Manaspas Xuto ofThailand, said it was imperative to try to settle the mainoutstanding issues this week.    The INRA renegotiation conference, which resumed todayunder the auspices of the United Nations Conference on Tradeand Development (UNCTAD), is scheduled to last until March 20.    Xuto told delegates this session of the conferencepresented a promising opportunity to conclude a new pact but ithad to be the last before the current accord expires inOctober.    Xuto said in his consultations with representatives ofmajor exporting and importing countries over the last fewmonths, "I have found a constructive attitude and willingness tobe flexible on the part of all concerned."    "It is imperative that we try to settle the majoroutstanding issues in the course of this week, since aconsiderable amount of technical drafting work will remain tobe completed." He said he will immediately start consultationswith producers and consumers.    The last October negotiations collapsed in disagreementover buffer stock operations.    Consumer demands for tighter buffer stock controls, aimedat preventing INRA from following the collapse of theInternational Tin Agreement (ITA), were rejected by producerswho argued for unchanged INRA terms.    The tin pact failed when its buffer stock manager ran outof funds to support prices.    Three previous rounds of talks between rubber producers andconsumers for a new five-year pact ended without agreement. TheINRA, originally due to expire in October 1985, was extended toOctober 1987 to facilitate renegotiation.    Wong Kum Choon, head of the Malaysian delegation, said hewas cautiously optimistic "that together we should be able tosave INRA and prevent it from being scuttled."    Without INRA, he added, prices of natural rubber wouldbecome more volatile.    Calling on delegates to show a sense of purpose andreality, he said, "There is no reason why we could not put asidedifferences and come up with a successor agreement." Reuter
RUBBER LEAF DISEASE SEEN AFFECTING SUPPLY/PRICES The leaf disease corenes pora,which has affected some rubber trees in Sri Lanka andIndonesia, is likely to force a cut in supply and push updepressed prices, a Malaysian rubber disease researcher said.    Trees with leaves hit by the fungus disease cannot be savedand must be felled, Chee Kheng Hoy, Head of the Crop Protectionand Microbiology Division in the Rubber Research Institute ofMalaysia (RRIM), told Reuters.    He was commenting on a Reuter report which said corenespora had hit seven pct of Sri Lanka's plantations and may causeoutput to drop below its 1987 target of 143,000 tonnes.    The report said the Sri Lankan Rubber Research Institutemay ask estates to remove trees seriously affected by thedisease and added that most estates affected belong to theState Plantations Corp and Janatha Estates Development Board.    Chee said corenes pora is an old disease which only affectscertain rubber clones in Sri Lanka and Indonesia and thatfurther use of such clones must be discontinued.    Clones not resistant to the disease are the Rubber ResearchInstitute of Sri Lanka clone 103, Indonesia's PPN 2058, 2444,2447 and PR 265 and Malaysia's RRIM 725, he said.    Chee said corenes pora affected trees from the RRIM 725clone planted in Malaysia several years ago but had been curbedafter use of such clones were discontinued.    Fungicide may be used to curb the disease, which alsoaffects leaves of 30 other species of plants, but experiencehas proven that it is uneconomical and expensive, he added.    "The disease is extremely difficult to control. If it is notcurbed in the two affected countries their rubber output maydrop and prices can rise," he said.    He added that the RRIM was aware of the disease outbreak inSri Lanka and was monitoring the situation. REUTER
PROGRESS AT RUBBER PACT TALKS REPORTED SLOW Negotiators at a United Nationsconference on natural rubber are making slow progress towardsreaching an agreement, delegates said.    The conference, which began Monday, is widely seen as thefinal effort to adopt a new International Natural RubberAgreement (INRA) before the current one expires in October.    Some 40 producing and consuming countries are taking partin the two-week meeting. This is the fourth such conference innearly two years.    Delegates said both sides still appeared divided on the keyissue of the price adjustment mechanism.    Consumers want frequent price reviews at 12 month intervalsinstead of 18 months as at present, a proposal currentlyrejected by producers.    And while consumers press for the price adjustment to beautomatic, producers have resisted reducing the role of theInternational Rubber Organization Council in the priceadjustment procedure.    Conference chairman Manaspas Xuto of Thailand has said itwas "imperative" to settle outstanding issues this week so thattechnical drafting work can be done next week. Reuter
RUBBER TALKS CHAIRMAN CITES SLIGHT PROGRESS There has been slight progress towardsreaching a rubber pact, the chairman of a United Nationsconference on a new International Natural Rubber Agreeement,INRA, Manaspas Xuto of Thailand, said.    "There has been some slight progress but it is not the endof the road yet," he said.    The conference, which began Monday, is seen as the lasteffort to adopt an accord to replace the current one whichexpires in October. Some 40 producing and consuming countriesare taking part in the two-week meeting.    Xuto said if the key outstanding issues are not resolved bytomorrow he would hold weekend meetings.    At the beginning of the conference, the fourth such meetingin nearly two years, Xuto said it was imperative to settlethose issues this week so that technical drafting work can bedone next week.    Conference sources said it is highly unlikely thatproducers will accept a pact that will provide for any possibledownward adjustment of the floor price, as proposed byconsumers under certain circumstances.    The sources said this means that any possible adjustmentwould centre on the reference price, and the "may buy" (or "maysell") and "must buy" (or "must sell") levels without changing the"lower indicative price" (or floor price) of 150Malaysian/Singapore cents a kilo in the present pact.    The present five-day average of the indicator price isaround 192 Malaysian/Singapore cents.    Consumers are seeking an adjustment of the reference price,set in the current accord at 201.66 Malaysian/Singapore cents akilo, and of the "lower indicative price" if the buffer stock,currently 360,000 tonnes, rises to 450,000 tonnes.    Consumers want price reviews at 12-month intervals insteadof the 18 at present, and the price revision mechanism torespond automatically to market trends.    At present, if the market price has been above or below thereference price for six months, the reference price is revisedby five pct or by an amount decided by the InternationalNatural Rubber Organisation council.    Consumers say that, in these circumstances, the adjustmentbe automatic at five pct or more.    Producers have resisted reducing the role of the council inthe price adjustment procedure and have expressed concern thatchanges proposed by consumers would weaken the present pact. Reuter
NEW RUBBER PACT APPEARS IN THE BALANCE Negotiations on a new InternationalNatural Rubber Agreement, INRA, are approaching themake-or-break point and prospects for a future pact appear tobe in the balance, delegates said.    Manaspas Xuto of Thailand, chairman of the INRArenegotiation conference, is holding consultations with a smallgroup of producers and consumers to try to resolve majoroutstanding issues. When the talks began on Monday Xuto saidthose issues should be settled by the end of the first week toallow time to draft an agreement during the second week.    The talks are due to last until March 20.    Xuto said, "There is nothing concrete yet, but theatmosphere is good." The discussions are expected to continuelate into the night, and Xuto said he may hold weekendmeetings.    Delegates said negotiations now focus on the degree towhich price adjustments should be automatic.    At present, if the market price has been above or below thereference price (set at 201.66 Malaysian/Singapore cents a kiloin the current agreement) for six months, the reference priceis revised by five pct or by an amount decided by theInternational Natural Rubber Organisation council.    Consumers are asking that, in these circumstances, theadjustment be automatic at five pct or more.    Producers want the council to have the last word and haveresisted reducing its role in the price adjustment procedure.    Delegates said there seems to be optimism about settlinganother issue -- that of the floor price.    It now appears that consumers may consider dropping theirinsistence of a downward adjustment of the floor price, calledthe "lower indicative price," under certain circumstances.    This means that any possible compromise would centre on thereference price, and the "may buy" (or "may sell") and "must buy" or"must sell" levels, without changing the "lower indicative price"-- which is set at 150 Malaysian/Singapore cents in the currentpact.    Delegates said that in exchange for consumer flexibility onthe floor price question, producers may consider agreeing toanother consumer proposal for more frequent price reviews -- at12 month intervals instead of 18 at present. Reuter
U.S. MAKES CONCILIATORY MOVE AT RUBBER PACT TALKS The U.S. Has dropped its insistence thatthe floor price in a new International Natural RubberAgreement, INRA, be revised downward under certaincircumstances, conference sources said.    The surprise conciliatory move by the U.S. Meets one of theproducers' main concerns -- that the floor price, or "lowerindicative price," remain unchanged, they said.    It is not clear, however, whether all consuming countrieswill follow suit, as a number of them, in particular Britain,West Germany and Belgium, appeared to have strong reservations,the sources added.    The group of consumers has been seeking an adjustment ofthe "lower indicative price" (set at 150 Malaysian/Singaporecents a kilo in the present pact) if the buffer stock,currently 360,000 tonnes, rises to 450,000 tonnes.    The sources said the question of to what extent priceadjustments should be automatic remains a problem.    Conference chairman Manaspas Xuto of Thailand has beenholding consultations with producers and consumers throughoutthe day.    The consumers' group is now holding a separate meetingahead of further consultations within the "president's group"tonight. Reuter
GENEVA - negotiators at U.N. Conference agree basic elements in new rubber pact -  Negotiators at a United Nationsconference on a new International Natural Rubber Agreement(INRA) have agreed on basic elements in a new pact, conferencechairman Manaspas Xuto said.    "We have resolved major differences of opinion," he toldReuters.    Xuto said the way is now cleared for drafting a new accord,to replace the current one which expires in October.    Xuto said: "I welcome the friendly and cooperativeatmosphere that has prevailed without interruption" since thetalks began last Monday.    "It is my hope that delegations will go back home and try toratify the new agreement," he added.    The renegotiation conference, under the auspices of theU.N. Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), is thefourth such meeting in two years.    Xuto said producers and consumers had agreed on fourpoints:    1) Regular price reviews will be held every 15 months.    Previously consumers were proposing 12-month intervalsbetween price reviews instead of 18 in the current pact.    2) If the average of the daily market indicator prices oversix months prior to a review is below (or above) the lowerintervention price (or the upper intervention price), thereference price will be automatically revised downwards (orupwards) by five pct unless the International Natural RubberOrganisation council decides on a higher percentage.    If buffer stock purchases or sales reach 300,000 tonnes,the reference price will be lowered or raised by three pctunless the council decides on a higher percentage.    3) If the buffer stock reaches 400,000 tonnes, the price atwhich the additional contingency stock of 150,000 tonnes isbrought into operation will be two Malaysian/Singapore centsabove the floor price -- or 152 cents.    4) The floor price will not be breached. Throughout thetalks producers had adamantly resisted a consumer proposal tolower the floor price of 150 cents if the buffer stock,currently 360,000 tonnes, rose to 450,000 tonnes.    The proposal, initiated by the U.S., Was withdrawn lastnight, setting the stage for compromise.    Legal drafting of provisions will start next week andformal adoption of the new accord by the 40 countries takingpart in the conference is expected to take place on March 20.    The current conference was widely seen as the last chanceto clinch a deal. Three previous attempts to negotiate a newfive- year pact had failed, the last round breaking down inOctober over consumer demands for tighter controls of thebuffer stock.    The United States, Japan, West Germany, France, Italy andBritain are the major consumers.    UNCTAD's latest estimates project an increase of 8.5 pct inrubber prices this year and 4.1 pct in 1988. REUTER
MALAYSIA WELCOMES ACCORD ON NEW RUBBER PACT Malaysian Primary IndustriesMinister Lim Keng Yaik welcomed the basic accord reached overthe weekend in Geneva between producers and consumers on a newInternational Natural Rubber Agreement (INRA).    "This is a good development and if a new pact is adoptedthis week it will augur well for the rubber industry and pricesin the long term," he told Reuters here.    Negotiators at a United Nations conference on a new INRAresolved differences and agreed last Saturday on basic elementsfor a new pact to replace the current one, which expires inOctober.    Conference Chairman Manaspas Xuto said legal drafting ofthe new pact will begin this week and it is expected to beformally adopted by some 40 countries on March 20.    Malaysia, the world's top producer, acted as spokesman forproducers at the talks, which began on March 9.    Malaysian traders said they expected prices to firm by afew cents on the news that a pact is expected to be adopted.    Prices will also firm in the short term because some370,000 tonnes of rubber held in INRA buffer stock will not beliquidated with a new pact in sight, they said. REUTER
KOBE RUBBER EXCHANGE TO EXTEND TRADING HOURS The Kobe Rubber Exchange said it willextend its trading hours from May 1 to enable more operators touse the exchange.    Subject to Ministry of International Trade and Industryapproval, the Exchange will add a sixth session starting at1700 local time, and will close the account for trading at thenew session the following day before the opening call starts at0930 local time, an Exchange official said.    Trading on the Singapore rubber market, a major producerprice indicator for Japanese end-users, is usually active afterthe end of the current final session here.    The introduction of the new session will enableparticipants to trade overnight after taking account ofSingapore rubber prices, because brokers and members who aredesignated by the Kobe Exchange are allowed to add the volumetraded overnight to the new final session before the openingsession starts next day, the official said.    But because the Kobe Exchange uses the auction system whichsets a fixed price at each session, the price of contractstraded overnight should be a fixed price settled at the sixthsession, he added.    Industry sources said they expected the Ministry to approvethe plan because it has encouraged the Japanese futuresindustry to expand and internationalise.    The Tokyo Commodity Exchange for Industry, TOCOM, whichalso trades rubber futures in Japan, said it has no plans tointroduce an extra session.    TOCOM also has five rubber trading sessions a day. Foursessions start 15 minutes later than Kobe Exchange sessions,but both Exchanges' final sessions start at the same time. REUTER
NEGOTIATORS DRAFT DETAILS OF NEXT RUBBER PACT Rubber producers and consumers, whoagreed last week on the central elements of a new internationalnatural rubber pact, have started work on the legal drafting ofa future accord, delegates said.    Compromise on issues blocking an agreement was reached at aUnited Nations conference on an accord to replace the currentpact, which expires in October.    The new International Natural Rubber Agreement (INRA) isexpected to be formally adopted on Friday. Reuter
NEGOTIATORS PUT FINAL TOUCHES TO NEW RUBBER PACT Rubber producing and consumingcountries, which agreed on the bases of a new InternationalNatural Rubber Agreement (INRA) last weekend, are now puttingthe final touches to the future accord, delegates said.    They said discussions are focusing on conditions for entryinto force of the new INRA. The present pact, which expires inOctober, required that governments accounting for 80 pct ofworld exports and 80 pct of world imports approved or ratifiedthe pact before it became operational.    Delegates said figures now being floated range between 65and 80 pct. Reuter
INDONESIA SEES LIMITED CHOICES ON ECONOMY Indonesia cannot spend its way out ofrecession and has very limited economic options due to lowerworld oil prices, Central Bank governor Arifin Siregar wasquoted as saying by the official Antara news agency.    "If Indonesia spurs its economic growth too much, such asthrough expansionary monetary and budgetary policies, it mightcreate negative effects not only on price increases, but alsoon the balance of payments," he told bankers and businessmen inthe North Sumatran city of Medan.    Antara quoted him as saying Indonesia is relying on itsexport drive to help narrow its trade deficit.    Antara reported that Siregar said the government wanted tohelp boost exports from the rubber and palm oil industries,which are centered in Sumatra.    "I see Sumatra has great potential, as in the plantationsector in which family units are employed in great number," hesaid, according to the agency.    Indonesia relied on oil and gas exports for 70 pct of itsexport revenue until last year's fall in crude prices.    It has projected its current account deficit will widen toover four billion dlrs in the current financial year endingMarch 31 from 1.8 billion in 1985/86. REUTER
UN CONFERENCE FORMALLY ADOPTS NEW RUBBER PACT A new International Natural RubberAgreement, INRA, was formally adopted by a United NationsConference today.    The new accord is due to replace the current one, whichexpires in October.    Conference chairman Manaspas Xuto of Thailand said theformal adoption represented "a historic moment."    The latest round of talks, which began March 9, representedthe fourth attempt to negotiate a new INRA in nearly two years.Xuto described the negotiations as "by no means easy, and weoften faced problems."    The new pact is due to enter into force provisionally whenratified by countries accounting for 75 pct of world netexports and 75 pct of net imports.    The new INRA will enter into force definitively whengovernments accounting for at least 80 pct of net exports and80 pct of net imports have ratified it.    It will be open for signature from May 1 to December 31this year.    It is expected that provisional entry into force will takeat least 12 to 14 months from now, delegates said.    During the hiatus between the two agreements buffer stockoperations will be suspended, but the International NaturalRubber Council will remain in place.    Xuto told the conference both the 1979 agreement and itssuccessor were aimed at meeting the needs of producers andconsumers of natural rubber over the long term.    Both had interest in stabilising prices and supplies, Xutoadded. He also praised "the spirit of 'give' and 'take' thatprevailed throughout this session."    Ahmed Farouk of Malaysia, speaking on behalf of producers,said the conclusion of the new pact showed that the mutualityof interests between producers and consumers is now as valid asit was when negotiations of the first agreement began in the1970s.    Farouk said the ability to manage inventories on the basisof predictable stable prices is "a vital consideration formultinational tire companies, whether or not consumingcountries as a whole claimed to be no longer so seriouslyconcerned about security of the rubber supply."    He said producers considered that the 1979 agreement hadserved the purpose for which it was created.    Farouk urged consuming countries to promote early accessionto the new pact "to avoid an undue gap between the old and thenew.    Gerard Guillonneau of France, speaking for consumers,agreed that the 1979 agreement had worked relatively well.    But as economic conditions had changed, he said, consumershad been led to make proposals for improving its functioning.    He added that the adoption of the new agreement "attests tothe importance of rubber and confidence in the rubber industry." Reuter
MAIN FEATURES OF NEW RUBBER PACT The new International Natural RubberAgreement (INRA), like the 1979 pact, will use a buffer stockas the sole instrument for market intervention -- excludingexport quotas or production controls.    The new INRA was adopted yesterday at a session held underthe auspices of the United Nations Conference on Trade andDevelopment (UNCTAD).    In many respects the main features in the new pact resemblethose contained in the present one.    The reference price, currently 201.66 Malaysian/Singaporects per kilo, will be maintained -- unless between now andOctober 22, when the 1979 INRA expires, the average of thedaily market indicator price remains above the upperintervention ("may sell") price (231 cts) or below the lowerintervention ("may buy") price (171 cts) for six months.    If this happened -- but delegates said it was unlikelyconsidering that the present indicator price averages 196 cts-- the price would be revised under the current accord by fivepct or by whatever amount the International Natural RubberCouncil decides.    The new reference price would then be taken over for thenew agreement.    Under the same circumstances in the new pact the referenceprice would be automatically revised by five pct unless theCouncil decides on a higher percentage.    Similarly, if buffer stock purchases or sales amounting to300,000 tonnes have been made since the last revision, thereference price will be lowered or raised by three pct unlessthe Council decides on a higher percentage.    Another change introduced in the new INRA is that pricereviews will be held at 15-month intervals instead of 18.    Those changes are intended to make the reference price moreresponsive to market trends.    As in the present accord the "may buy" and "may sell" levelsare set at plus or minus 15 pct of the reference price, and the"must buy" and "must sell" levels at 20 pct of it.    The lower and upper indicative prices (floor and ceilingprices) will remain fixed at 150 and 270 cents, unless theCouncil decides to revise them at reviews held every 30 months.    During the negotiations, consumers abandoned a proposalthat the floor price be adjusted downward if the buffer stock,currently 360,000 tonnes, rose to 450,000 tonnes.    The maximum size of the buffer stock in the new pact is thesame as under the present one -- 400,000 tonnes, with provisionfor an additional contingency buffer stock of 150,000 tonnes.    Under the new accord, the contingency buffer stock will bebrought in at 152 cts to defend the floor price.    At last Friday's session, Ahmed Farouk, speaking forproducers, said producing nations considered that the 1979 pacthad served the purpose for which it had been created.    Gerard Guillonneau of France, who spoke for consumers,agreed that the current agreement had worked "relatively well."    Asked about the chances of success of the new INRA,delegates noted that for nearly its whole life, the 1979 accordhad maintained the average price above the "must buy" level.    They said the agreement until now did not appear to haveencouraged excessive production of rubber.    In addition, provisions for borrowing to finance the bufferstock have now been eliminated, ruling out speculation. "It is asort of middle-of-the-road agreement," one delegate said.    The new pact will be open for signature at U.N.Headquarters in New York from May 1 to December 31 this year.    To become operational, it will require ratification bycountries accounting for 75 pct of world exports and 75 pct ofworld imports.    Delegates estimate that this will take 12 to 14 months fromnow. During the hiatus between the two agreements, theInternational Natural Rubber Council will remain in place.    The pact will enter into force definitively whengovernments accounting for 80 pct of world exports and 80 pctof world imports have ratified it. REUTER
INDONESIA'S NON-OIL EXPORTS DECLINE IN 1986 Indonesia's non-oil and gas exportsfell to 5.79 billion dlrs in calendar 1986 from 5.98 billion in1985, according to Bank Indonesia figures.    Coffee exports rose to 753 mln dlrs from 580 mln in 1985,but rubber shipments fell to 625 mln from 720 mln and tin to180.6 mln from 246 mln, weekly central bank figures show.    Indonesia hopes to boost its non-oil exports to make up foroil revenue lost because of lower prices. But the lower valueof commodities such as timber, rubber, palm oil and tea onworld markets has prevented this, despite a 31 pct devaluationof the rupiah against the dollar in September. REUTER
NEW RUBBER PACT ADOPTED AT GENEVA CONFERENCE Producers and consumers representingmost of world trade in natural rubber adopted a newInternational Natural Rubber Agreement (INRA) aimed atstabilizing world prices over the next five years.    Negotiations for a new INRA, to succeed the present onewhich runs out next October, began nearly two years ago.    Agreement on the new five-year pact, which uses a bufferstock to keep prices stable by selling or buying rubber asrates rise or fall, was reached at a two-week session hereunder the auspices of the United Nations Conference on Tradeand Development (UNCTAD). Reuter
NORTHEAST, EASTERN THAILAND FACE SEVERE DROUGHT Thirteen provinces, mainly in northeastand eastern Thailand, have been suffering a worse than averagedrought since mid-February and the dry spell is expected tolast until early May, Deputy Interior Minister SantiChaiviratana said.    Santi told reporters the government is launching a droughtrelief operation mainly involving the use of water trucks tosend water to affected farming areas.    He did not say what crops have been damaged in northeastThailand but said large durian orchards in eastern Chanthaburiprovince have suffered heavy losses.    The Minister said the affected areas include eightprovinces in the northeast, two in eastern Thailand and threerubber growing provinces in the south near the Malaysianborder. REUTER
DROUGHT HITS THAI RUBBER AND FRUIT GROWERS A drought that began seven weeks ago ishurting orchards and rubber plantations in Thailand andofficials said it could last until May.    The government is trucking water into parched farms inparts of northeastern, eastern and southern provinces, but notenough to satisfy farmers, according to press reports.    There has been no official estimate of damage.    Officials of Thailand's rain-making institute said itsairplanes could help little because few clouds were forming forthem to seed with rain-making chemicals. Thailand has a rainyseason that normally starts in May and lasts to October. REUTER
MIXED ASIAN REACTION TO NEW RUBBER PACT Governments of major Asianproducing countries have welcomed the conclusion of a newInternational Natural Rubber Agreement (INRA), but growers andtraders are unhappy with the development, according to viewspolled by Reuter correspondents.    Officials in Malaysia, Indonesia and Thailand, whichproduce the bulk of the world's rubber, said they expected thenew pact to continue to stabilise prices and help their rubberindustries remain viable in the long-term.    But traders and growers said they were against the new pactbecause its buffer stock mechanism was likely to intereferewith free market forces and prevent sharp rubber price rises.    The new INRA, to replace the current one which expires onOctober 22, was formally adopted by most of the world'sproducers and consumers in Geneva last Friday.    It will be open for signature at the U.N. Headquarters inNew York from May 1 to December 31 this year and will enterinto force provisionally when ratified by countries accountingfor 75 pct of world rubber exports and 75 pct of world imports.    Malaysian Primary Industries Minister Lim Keng Yaik saidthe formal adoption of a new pact had dispelled fears ofliquidation of some 360,000 tonnes of INRA buffer stock rubberand a possible depression of prices.    He expressed confidence that the new INRA would continue tokeep prices stable by selling or buying rubber as prices roseor fell through its buffer stock system.    Malaysia was also happy that in the new INRA financing ofpurchases for the normal buffer stock of 400,000 tonnes and acontingency buffer stock of 150,000 tonnes would be donethrough direct cash contributions from members, he said.    Under the existing pact, members can borrow from banks tofinance INRA's buffer stock purchases. This has been viewedwith concern by some members who fear the INRA may becomeindebted and ultimately face collapse, like the InternationalTin Agreement.    "This will ensure the buffer stock operation is carried outwithout any financial encumbrance," Lim said.     Malaysia, the world's largest producer, was seekingcabinet approval to join the new INRA and hoped other producersand consumers would also become members, he said.    Officials in Jakarta said the new pact would bring benefitto Indonesia's rubber industry's by stabilising prices.    It was unlikely to collapse like the tin agreement becauseits new financial provisions had been tightened, they said.    Thai officials told Reuters they were optimistic the newpact was viable because it strictly limited the extent of debtthe INRA buffer stock manager might commit to his marketoperations.     Malaysian growers, however, said they preferred a freerubber market because an INRA had a tendency to keep prices atlevels that were only acceptable to consumers.    "With the INRA's ability to keep prices at a certain stablelevel, consumers are assured of rubber at almost a fixed price,while producers may never see sharp price rises," a MalaysianRubber Producers Council source told Reuters.    Producers also wanted a free rubber market without theoverhang of a 360,000 tonne INRA buffer stock which hadpsychologically prevented price rises, he said.    State plantation officials in Sri Lanka said prices hadbeen depressed since INRA's inception and the creation of abuffer stock, and they seemed unlikely to rise.    Sri Lanka should not be a member of the INRA because it wasexpensive to maintain a buffer stock, they added.    Traders in the region, meanwhile, said prices might bepressured by the new pact in the long term as its potential tostabilise prices and buffer stock capacity would spur producersto produce more.    Most Malaysian and Singapore traders said the new pact'sconclusion had little impact on prices and it was unlikely toallow sharp price fluctuations in future.    "The 360,000 tonnes in the INRA buffer stock must beliquidated and a free market returned," a Malaysian trader said.    Japanese traders said the new pact had a chance for successas most world producers and consumers had adopted it, but theyquestioned the ability of some financially-strapped producersto finance buffer stock operations. REUTER
MALAYSIA EXPECTS RUBBER SHORTAGE IN APRIL/MAY Malaysia said it expects a naturalrubber shortage in April and May because of the effects ofcurrent wintering on rubber trees.    The expected shortage and stronger demand for rubber goods,especially condoms and surgical gloves by consumers, is likelyto push up prices, the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and LicensingBoard said in its latest monthly bulletin.    During the annual wintering period from February to Aprilrubber trees shed their leaves and latex output is very low. REUTER
SRI LANKA TO UPROOT OR BUD DISEASED RUBBER TREES Sri Lanka will uproot rubber trees thatare more than two years old and affected by the leaf diseasecorynespora, the head of the government's Rubber ResearchInstitute told Reuters.    Rodney De Mel said affected trees less than two years oldwould undergo base-budding -- attaching a clone as close aspossible to the trunk's base and cutting off the top of thetree once the bud has taken. Uprooted or base-budded treesmature later, causing an output loss estimated at 350 kilos perhectare from the sixth year when they begin producing.    About 7,000 acres are planted with the high yielding RIC103 variety, the clone afflicted by corynespora.    Only about 2,000 acres are affected by the disease, whichcauses leaves to fall off, De Mel said.    Sri Lanka has 508,000 acres planted with rubber trees.    De Mel said the disease was detected in nurseries as earlyas in middle 1985, but it was only in August-September 1986that it became widespread.    The Institute is conducting a survey to determine how manytrees will be uprooted or base-budded. Healthy trees will besprayed and remain under observation.    T.P. Lilaratne, head of the government's Rubber ControllerDepartment, which monitors the industry, told Reutersreplanting and base-budding would have to be undertaken beforelate May when the monsoon rains begin.    De Mel said clones in the nurseries which are susceptibleto corynespora, identified as RIC 103, RIC 52, RIC 104, RIC106, RIC 107 and RIC 118, will be uprooted and burned.    The same procedures will be undertaken for the foreignclones indentified as NAB 12, RRIM 725, FX25, PPN 2444, PPN2447, KRS 21 and PPN 2058.    Lilaratne said the susceptible clones would be replaced byPB 86, RRIM 600, RRIC 110, RRIC 121, RIC 100 and RIC 102.    These six varieties would also be used to replace treesuprooted or base-budded, De Mel said.    Lilaratne said planters would receive 10,000 rupees perhectare for replanting and plants would be free of charge.    "But no compensation is contemplated at the moment," headded.    De Mel said a drought in Sri Lanka has helped control thespread of the disease.    "The drought has not stopped the disease, but probablyhelped in some way because trees have not been affected inareas that are dry," he said.    Brokers said the disease had not affected prices because ithas not caused a drop in production.    Prices for the best latex crepe at the Colombo auction lastweek firmed to 20.19 rupees per kilo from 20.05 rupees at theprevious sale. REUTER
DOW<DOW> RAISES STYRENE-BUTADIENE LATEX PRICES Dow Chemical Co said itincreased prices by nine cts a pound (solids) forstyrene-butadiene latex and plastic pigments, effective MayOne. Dow did not release the percentage increase.    It said the increase will affect the floor coveringmarkets, paper, paperboard and specialty markets.    It said the increase is in addition to a previouslyannounced seven cts a pound (solids) increase, effective MarchOne. Reuter
COMMODITY PACTS MORE ORIENTED TOWARDS MARKET Consuming countries, chastened by thecollapse of International Tin Council (ITC) price supportoperations in 1985, are insisting more than ever before thatcommodity pacts reflect the reality of the markets they areserving, a Reuter survey showed.    They want price ranges to be more responsive to markettrends - to avoid overstimulating output and straining theaccords' support operations - and intervention rules that avoidthe risk of exports by non-members undermining the pacts.Consumers and producers, mindful of ITC buffer stock losses,have also sought strict conditions for buffer operations.    Importers and some key exporting countries have shunned ageneralised approach to commodity price stabilisation andprefer to assess each commodity case by case, the surveyshowed.    The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) last week setprecise limits on what the Buffer Stock Manager (BSM) could dounder the new agreement. It imposed daily and weekly purchaselimits, prohibited the BSM from operating on futures marketsand stipulated, after consumer insistence, that up to 15 pct oftotal buffer stock purchases could be of non-member cocoa. Thiswill help prevent lower quality cocoa from Malaysia, theworld's fourth largest producer, undermining the market.    The cocoa pact establishes precise differentials the BufferStock Manager must use when purchasing varying grades.    A new International Natural Rubber Agreement (INRA) wasadopted earlier this month in Geneva. Importing and exportingcountries agreed several changes to make the reference pricemore responsive to market trends and they eliminated provisionsunder which the buffer stock could borrow from banks to financeoperations. Direct cash contributions from members will fundbuffer stock purchases. Bank financing was a particular featureof the failed ITC buffer stock which suffered losses runninginto hundreds of millions of sterling. Legal wrangles continue.    Recent International Coffee Organization (ICO) negotiationsin London exemplified the degree to which consumers insist thatagreements reflect market reality, commodity analysts said.    Consumers and a small group of producers argued that"objective criteria" should be used to define export quotashares, which would have meant a reduction in the share ofBrazil, the world's leading producer. Brazil wanted to maintainits previous quota share of 30 pct. The talks broke down and,although an ICO executive board meeting starts in London today,delegates and trade sources see chances of any near termnegotiations on export quota distribution as remote.    International agreements exist for sugar and wheat. Thesedo not have any economic clauses but provide a forum fordiscussions on possible future economic agreements, collectstatistics and draw up market analyses. Analysts saiddifferences between sugar exporting countries have held up anyprogress towards an accord with economic teeth, while sheercompetition between major exporters amid a world grain glutmilitate against any pact with economic provisions for wheat.    An alternative focus for commodity discussions areinternational study groups, made up of governments with advicefrom industry, such as those for lead and zinc and rubber.    The U.N. Common fund for commodities, with a planneddirectly contributed capital of 470 mln dlrs, has failed tobecome operational because neither the U.S. Nor the SovietUnion has ratified it. U.S. Officials in Washington said theU.S. Doubts the fund would be able to fulfil its objectives,citing the lack of widespread support.    U.S. Officials in Washington and Malaysian officials inKuala Lumpur expressed a policy of looking at each commoditypact case by case. U.S. Officials said it has been willing tostudy individual cases for economically sound, market-orientedcommodity accords balancing producer and consumer interests.    "We see little to be gained by attempting to increase theprice of a commodity whose long-term trend is downward,"official Administration policy states. The U.S. Currentlybelongs to only two international commodity agreements thathave economic clauses - the International Coffee Agreement(ICA) and INRA - but it is also a member of the sugar and wheatpacts.    The U.S. Did not join the International Cocoa Agreementbecause it considered its proposed price ranges unrealistic andnot designed to protect the interests of consuming countries,the State Department said. U.S. Officials singled out the INRAas the one commodity agreement that seems to be working.    U.S. Negotiators were successful in getting other membersof the pact to agree that the price review and adjustmentmechanism of the rubber agreement would accurately reflectmarket trends and also to continue the accord as a marketoriented agreement, U.S. Officials said.    Canadian officials in Ottawa also said they haveconsistently tried to look at membership of commodity pacts onthe merits of each case. Malaysian Primary Industries MinisterLim Keng Yaik told Reuters in Kuala Lumpur his country, theworld's top producer of rubber, tin and palm oil, decides itsparticipation in international commodity pacts case by case.    Malaysia is a member of the Association of Tin ProducingCountries (ATPC) which produce 65 pct of world tin. The ATPClaunched a plan to limit member tin exports to 96,000 tonnesfor a year from March to cut the tin surplus to 50,000 from70,000.    Economist in the West German Ministry of Agriculture anddelegate to cocoa, wheat and sugar agreements Peter Baron toldReuters in London, "Agreements with economic clauses tostabilise prices could function if fixed price ranges wereclose to market reality, if there was full participation byproducers and consumers, and if participants were prepared totake their obligations in the framework of the agreementseriously."    But Baron added, "No real sanctions are available for acountry that doesn't stick to its obligations...The Germanapproach is sceptical. We don't think agreements are the bestinstrument to help developing countries. They were never meantto be a vehicle for the transfer of resources and that is howdeveloping countries often interpret them."    Traditionally Britain has always been supportive ofcommodity agreements, reflecting its strong links with ThirdWorld producing countries. But recently demands for morestringent and justifiable pacts with emphasis placed on theneed for "intellectual honesty" and "objective criteria" havegrown.    British officials stress the need for commodity pacts to bea two way partnership in trade rather than a disguise for aid.    It is now seen as essential that any pacts involving directmarket participation through a buffer stock have a high degreeof transparency and do not contain the risk of open-endedborrowing that occurred in the tin pact, they said. U.K.Delegates talk of stabilisation and the need for prices toreflect changes in market structure and price trends ratherthan dictate what prices should be.    A Foreign Ministry official in Tokyo said Japan urges pricerealism in commodity pacts, adding high prices inflate supply.    A government spokesman in Paris said France is favourableto commodity pacts. France, a large consumer and producer ofsugar, favours a sugar pact as long as it reflects the realmarket situation, particularly regarding stocks.    Indonesia's Foreign Minister Mochtar Kusumaatmadja toldReuters in Jakarta: "These agreements can work as long as theproblems are cyclical..But it's another matter when there arestructural problems..But we are still committed to commodityagreements as an act of faith." Nicaraguan External TradeMinister Alejandro Martinez Cuenca said in London producerscannot afford not to give their backing to commodityagreements.    "The political will is not there on the part of someconsumers to make agreements work," Martinez Cuenca said.    The head of the economics department in the BrazilianForeign Ministry, Sebastiao do Rego Barros, told Reuters anagreement can be successful if it keeps a link with marketreality. If you have an agreement such as coffee with a systemof quotas, with a link between prices practised inside the pactand actual market prices, it can work. UNCTAD spokesman GrahamShanley said consuming countries realise steady export earningsenhance developing countries' ability to service debt and meangreater demand for industrialised nations' capital goods. REUTER
MALAYSIA CUTS GAZETTED RUBBER PRICE Malaysia said it cut the gazettedprice of rubber to 202-7/8 cents per kg from 213-1/2 cents inMarch, effective immediately.    No export duty is applicable at this level, against 3/8cent per kg last month, because the government raised theexport duty threshold price to 210 cents per kg in early 1985.    The cess for rubber research and replanting remainedunchanged at 3.85 and 9.92 cents per kg respectively. REUTER
POLYSAR IN JOINT VENTURE ON FINLAND LATEX PLANT Polysar Ltd, wholly owned by<Canada Development Corp>, said it agreed to form a jointventure with Raision Tehtaat, of Finland, to build a syntheticrubber latex plant in southern Finland.    Project cost and plant capacity were not disclosed.    The joint venture, to be 51 pct owned by Raision Tehtaatand 49 pct by Polysar, will build a plant at Anjalankoski, eastof Helsinki, to produce carboxylated styrene-butadiene latex.    The plant's production will be used by Finland's paperindustry for making coated paper and paper board products. Reuter
THAI TRADE DEFICIT WIDENS IN FIRST QUARTER Thailand's trade deficit widened to 4.5billion baht in the first quarter of 1987 from 2.1 billion ayear ago, the Business Economics Department said.    It said Janunary/March imports rose to 65.1 billion bahtfrom 58.7 billion. Thailand's improved business climate thisyear resulted in a 27 pct increase in imports of raw materialsand semi-finished products.    The country's oil import bill, however, fell 23 pct in thefirst quarter due to lower oil prices.    The department said first quarter exports expanded to 60.6billion baht from 56.6 billion.    Export growth was smaller than expected due to lowerearnings from many key commodities including rice whoseearnings declined 18 pct, maize 66 pct, sugar 45 pct, tin 26pct and canned pineapples seven pct.    Products registering high export growth were jewellery up64 pct, clothing 57 pct and rubber 35 pct. REUTER
INDONESIAN COMMODITY EXCHANGE MAY EXPAND The Indonesian Commodity Exchange islikely to start trading in at least one new commodity, andpossibly two, during calendar 1987, exchange chairman PaianNainggolan said.    He told Reuters in a telephone interview that trading inpalm oil, sawn timber, pepper or tobacco was being considered.    Trading in either crude palm oil (CPO) or refined palm oilmay also be introduced. But he said the question was stillbeing considered by Trade Minister Rachmat Saleh and nodecision on when to go ahead had been made.    The fledgling exchange currently trades coffee and rubberphysicals on an open outcry system four days a week.    "Several factors make us move cautiously," Nainggolan said."We want to move slowly and safely so that we do not make amistake and undermine confidence in the exchange."    Physical rubber trading was launched in 1985, with coffeeadded in January 1986. Rubber contracts are traded FOB, up tofive months forward. Robusta coffee grades four and five aretraded for prompt delivery and up to five months forward,exchange officials said.    The trade ministry and exchange board are considering theintroduction of futures trading later for rubber, but oneofficial said a feasibility study was needed first. Nodecisions are likely until after Indonesia's elections on April23, traders said.    Trade Minister Saleh said on Monday that Indonesia, as theworld's second largest producer of natural rubber, shouldexpand its rubber marketing effort and he hoped development ofthe exchange would help this.    Nainggolan said that the exchange was trying to boostoverseas interest by building up contacts with end-users.    He said teams had already been to South Korea and Taiwan toencourage direct use of the exchange, while a delegation wouldalso visit Europe, Mexico and some Latin American states toencourage participation.    Officials say the infant exchange has made a good startalthough trading in coffee has been disappointing.    Transactions in rubber between the start of trading inApril 1985 and December 1986 totalled 9,595 tonnes, worth 6.9mln dlrs FOB, plus 184.3 mln rupiah for rubber deliveredlocally, the latest exchange report said.     Trading in coffee in calendar 1986 amounted to only 1,905tonnes in 381 lots, valued at 6.87 billion rupiah.     Total membership of the exchange is now nine brokers and44 traders. REUTER
SHANGHAI TYREb FACTORY TO RAISE 30 MLN U.S. DLRS Ta Chung Hua Rubber Factory ofShanghai will raise a 30 to 35 mln U.S. Dlr loan to expand andmodernise its plant, arranger CCIC Finance Ltd said.    The loan, to be lead managed by the Bank of China, isexpected to mature in eight to nine years, but terms have notbeen finalized.    The money will be used to import manufacturing equipmentincluding technology transfer for the production of truckradial tyres. Part of the output will be exported.    The expansion program is expected to cost a total 54 mlndlrs. The shortfall will be financed domestically. REUTER
MAJOR RUBBER PRODUCERS TO MEET IN SINGAPORE Officials from Indonesia, Malaysia,Singapore and, perhaps, Thailand will meet here tomorrow todiscuss increased regional cooperation on rubber marketing andways to raise rubber prices, industry sources said.    The officials will discuss linking rubber markets in thefour countries to improve price transparency, the sources said.    This is the first time Indonesia is attending such ameeting, they said, but representatives from Thailand may notbe able to attend because of their tight schedule. Malaysia,Indonesia and Thailand account for 90 pct of world rubberexports and Singapore is a major regional rubber tradingcentre.    The Malaysian Rubber Futures market, freighting andcontracts for rubber are among other issues expected to bediscussed.    Last month, rubber importing and exporting countriesadopted a new International Natural Rubber Agreement in Geneva.The new pact is more responsive to market trends than itspredecessor, the sources said, and earlier provisions allowingthe buffer stock to borrow from banks have been eliminated. REUTER
THAI VENTURE WILL SELL RUBBER TO CHINA Teck Soon Co Ltd, a major Thai rubberexporter has formed a joint venture with state-owned ChineseInternational Economic and Technology Development Corp toproduce 50,000 tonnes of sheet rubber annually for export tothe Chinese auto industry, Teck Soon general manager ChitSurivitchpan said.    Chit said a new joint venture company will have aregistered capital of four mln dlrs.    China imported 69,952 tonnes of Thai sheet rubber last yearand 60,296 tonnes in 1985. REUTER
TOKYO EXCHANGE ALLOWS MORE GOLD AND RUBBER BROKERS The Tokyo Commodity Exchange for Industry(TOCOM) said it will allow five more members to become preciousmetal brokers, taking the total to 54, and four more members tobroke rubber, for a total of 39.    An exchange official told Reuters the Ministry ofInternational Trade and Industry is expected to approve the thenew brokers by mid-June.    The move has been under study since early May in responseto requests by non-broker members of the exchange. REUTER
MALAYSIAN RUBBER OUTPUT RECOVERS FROM WINTERING Malaysian rubber production shouldreturn to normal levels this month after a hard winteringseason, the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board saidin its latest review. "As packers and remillers expectproduction to recover to normal levels in June, sellers willremain reserved in the near future," the review, dated May 14,said. Many consumers are holding off, waiting for the best timeto buy.    The market is mindful of approaching summer holidays inindustrial countries and there is an air of uncertainty beyondJuly, it said. It gave no figures for the output drop. REUTER
DOW CHEMICAL <DOW> RAISING LATEX ADDITIVE PRICES Dow Chemical Co said effectiveJuly 15 it is raising all bulk and drum prices for its line ofDOWNRIGHT styrene-butadiene latex additives used in themodification of asphalts by 15 pct. Reuter
REICHHOLD <RCI> UNIT HIKES PRICES ON PRODUCTS Reichhold Chemicals Inc <RCI.N> saidits emulsion polymers division increased its selling prices ofits polyvinyl acetate and vinyl acetate-acrylate latexes forpaper coating application by between two and four cts per drypound.    The company attributed the price increases to thecontinuing escalation of raw materials costs. Reuter
SCRAP CREPE RUBBER PRICES FIRAT COLOMBO AUCTION Scrap crepe prices firmed on goodshortcovering demand at the Colombo rubber auction, brokerssaid.    One-X brown was traded at 19.75 rupees per kg, up 15 centsfrom last rates while other grades also showed improvements.The rise was attributed to a shortage of rubber available tomanufacture this type.    Latex crepe prices were unchanged with the best one-Xselling at 20.92 rupees. Crepe one was traded at 20.68 andcrepe two at 20.45 rupees.    Sheet was firm as in previous weeks with RSS1 averaging22.05 rupees against 22 previously. The total quantity ofrubber offered at the sale was 320 tonnes. REUTER
THAI TRADERS PLAN MAIZE FUTURES MARKET Thai traders plan to establish a companyto regulate maize forward trading, in what could be a firststep towards a commodities futures exchange, maize dealerssaid.    Traders and Internal Trade Department officials agreed lastweek to commission a study on a structure to regulate maizeforward trading and to set up a company, Thailand CommodityExchange Co Ltd, with 30 businesses as shareholders who willact as brokers in the futures market.    Chanthong Pattamapong, a commodities trader asked to todraw up the study, said if the maize futures market succeeds itmay be extended to other commodities, perhaps sugar and rubber. REUTER
RUBBER STOCK MANAGER SAYS QUALITY ACCEPTABLE International Rubber Organisation(INRO) buffer stock manager Aldo Hofmeister said tests hadshown the quality of rubber in stock was acceptable, butacknowledged that some consumers were now wary of buying it.    "We have said all along that the rubber is holding up wellfrom a condition and quality standpoint...Rubber stored inproper conditions does not deteriorate," he told Reuters in atelephone interview. The quality of buffer stock rubber soldsince he entered the market in September would be discussed atan INRO Council meeting which opened here today, he said.    Tokyo traders said on Friday they had little interest inbuying rubber from the INRO buffer stock because of possiblepoor quality.    Hofmeister began selling rubber when prices exceeded the"may-sell' level of 232 cents per kg early last month. INRO'sfive-day moving average was quoted at 237.3 cents on October16. He said the quality of five to six-year old rubber in stockwas uppermost in consumers' minds.    "We have received good interest for the rubber. I understandthe Japanese concern. Many consumers want to try the rubberbefore they carry on buying," he said.    Hofmeister said INRO rubber was stored in 28 differentlocations in producing and consuming nations, adding allwarehouses used were suitable for long-term storage.    Selling of buffer stock rubber had levelled off during thepast week to 10 days and this could reflect a "wait and seeattitude" by buyers, he said.    "Consumers are holding back from buying additional amountsuntil they test out the rubber. If their tests are positiive,they are likely to buy more." Hofmeister said he could reducethe offer price of buffer stock rubber to stimulate interestbut INRO did not want to depress prices artificially.    Hofmeister declined to comment on Japanese trade estimatesthat he had sold around 30,000 to 32,000 tonnes in Kuala Lumpurand New York since September.    But he said Japanese traders were in a position to have anidea of the quantity he had sold, noting that traders overallhad put buffer stock sales at between 25,000 and 35,000 tonnes.    The question of sales from the original 360,000 tonnebuffer stock is expected to be the main topic of the Councilmeeting which is scheduled to end on Thursday.    The current international rubber pact expires on October22.    The deadline for the new pact's start is January 1989 andHofmeister has been mandated to continue selling rubber duringthe interim period. REUTER
