MCLEAN'S <MII> U.S. LINES SETS ASSET TRANSFER McLean Industries Inc's UnitedStates Lines Inc subsidiary said it has agreed in principle totransfer its South American service by arranging for thetransfer of certain charters and assets to <Crowley MariotimeCorp>'s American Transport Lines Inc subsidiary.    U.S. Lines said negotiations on the contract are expectedto be completed within the next week. Terms and conditions ofthe contract would be subject to approval of various regulatorybodies, including the U.S. Bankruptcy Court. Reuter
AGENCY REPORTS 39 SHIPS WAITING AT PANAMA CANAL The Panama Canal Commission, a U.S.government agency, said in its daily operations report thatthere was a backlog of 39 ships waiting to enter the canalearly today. Over the next two days it expects --                           2/26  2/27                       Due: 27    35      Scheduled to Transit: 35    41           End-Day Backlog: 31    25    Average waiting time tomorrow --         Super Tankers  Regular Vessels North End:  13 hrs      15 hrs South End:   4 hrs      26 hrs Reuter
GULF BARGE FREIGHT RATES UP FURTHER ON CALL Gulf barge freight rates firmed again onthe outlook for steady vessel loadings at the Gulf, increasingthe demand for barges to supply those ships, dealers said.    No barges traded today on the St Louis Merchants' Exchangecall session, versus 29 yesterday.    Quotes included - - Delivery this week on the Illinois River (Joliet) 135 pct oftariff bid/140 offered, with next week same river (ex Chicago)quoted the same - both up 2-1/2 percentage points. - Next week Mississippi River (St Louis) 120 pct bid/127-1/2offered - up five points. - Next week Ohio River (Owensboro/south) 125 pct bid/132-1/2offered - up 7-1/2 points. - On station Illinois River (south Chicago) 135 pct bid/140offered - no comparison. - March Illinois (ex Chicago) 132-1/2 pct bid/140 offered - up2-1/2 points. - March Ohio River bid at yesterday's traded level of 125 pct,offered at 132-1/2. - March lower Mississippi River (Memphis/Cairo) 112-1/2 pctbid/120 offered - no comparison. - May Illinois River (ex Chicago) 100 pct bid/107-1/2 offered- no comparison. - Sept/Nov Lower Mississippi River (Memphis/Cairo) 137-1/2 pctbid/145 offered, with Sept/Dec same section 125 pct bid/135offered - no comparison. Reuter
GRAIN SHIPS LOADING AT PORTLAND There were seven grain ships loading andsix ships were waiting to load at Portland, according to thePortland Merchants Exchange. Reuter
CHINA SIGNS WORLD BANK LOAN FOR TIANJIN PORT China has signed a 130 mln dlr loanagreement with the World Bank to partly finance 12 new berthswith an annual capacity of 6.28 mln tonnes at the 20 mln tonnea year capacity Tianjin port, the New China News Agency said.    China will provide 370 mln yuan for the project and aChinese company won a bid against 12 other firms from sevencountries to do the foundation work, it said.    It said 11 of the new berths will be able to handle shipsof more than 10,000 tonnes, three will handle containers andthe expansion will enable the port to handle coke, non-metalmineral ores and mining equipment for the first time. REUTER
PHILADELPHIA PORT CLOSED BY TANKER CRASH The port of Philadelphia was closedwhen a Cypriot oil tanker, Seapride II, ran aground afterhitting a 200-foot tower supporting power lines across theriver, a Coast Guard spokesman said.    He said there was no oil spill but the ship is lodged onrocks opposite the Hope Creek nuclear power plant in NewJersey.    He said the port would be closed until today when theyhoped to refloat the ship on the high tide.    After delivering oil to a refinery in Paulsboro, NewJersey, the ship apparently lost its steering and hit the powertransmission line carrying power from the nuclear plant to thestate of Delaware. Reuter
ROTTERDAM PORT UNION AND EMPLOYERS TO MEET Dutch port and transport union, FNV,agreed to an employers' request to reconvene abandoned peacetalks tonight to try to end strikes that have disruptedRotterdam's general cargo sector for the past six weeks, aunion spokesman said.    Talks broke down Thursday when the union walked out afteremployers tabled their final offer to end the strikes whichstarted January 19 in protest at planned redundancies of 800from the sector's 4,000 workforce, starting with 350 this year.    The employers' invitation to restart the talks comes on theday a deadline set by Minister of Social Affairs Louw de Graaffor a resolution of the dispute expires.    De Graaf said if the dispute had not ended by today hewould withdraw the 10 mln guilder annual labour subsidy to thesector.    No comment was immediately available from the employers'organization. Reuter
VERSATILE TO BUILD POLAR ICE BREAKER Versatile Corp's shipbuilding subsidiaryhas a letter of intent to build a 320 mln dlr polar icebreakerfor the Canadian coast guard, Transport Minister John Crosbiesaid.    In a Vancouver address, Crosbie said Versatile PacificShipyards Inc was the low bidder to build the Arctic Class 8icebreaker, but the company must meet certain financial andengineering conditions before the contract is awarded.    The government also announced it will provide up to 13 mlndlrs in loan insurance to help Versatile prepare for theconstruction of the vessel.said before the contract can be awarded Versatile "will berequired to offer assurances that the shipyard is technicallyand financially capable of performing the work."    Crosibie said Versatile's bid was 100 mln dlrs lower thancompeting bidders and will generate 1,000 person years ofdirect employment.    Work on the vessel, which Crosbie said would be the mostpowerful icebreaker in the world, would begin next year andcompleted in 1992.    The government announced plans to build the icebreaker lastyear following the controversial passage of the U.S. CoastGuard's vessel, the Polar Sea, through the disputed NorthwestPassage. The U.S. government did not seek permission for thejourney, claiming the area was an international water way.    The government said the icebreaker was needed to back upthe country's claim of sovereignty in the Arctic. Reuter
CANADIAN SEAFARERS THREATEN STRIKE Canadian seafarers are almost certainto go on strike this spring in a refusal to meet rollbacks inwages and benefits asked for by their employers, Seafarers'International Union official Roman Gralewicz said.    "It's 99.9 percent--I guarantee you a strike," Gralewiczsaid in an interview.    The union represents about 2,300 workers on the Great Lakesand Canada's East and West coasts. Contract talks broke off inJanuary and a conciliator has been appointed to try to helpsettle the dispute. The current contract expires at the end ofMarch.    The seafarers' employers are also asking for a reduction increw levels, a move which the union said would cost about 400jobs. Reuter
NEITHER SIDE OPTIMISTIC ON ROTTERDAM PORT ISSUES Employers and the port union, FNV, areto meet again this afternoon to attempt a settlement of thesix-week-old dispute in Rotterdam's general cargo sector, butneither side is optimistic, spokesmen for both sides toldReuters.    Little progress was made in last night's three hours oftalks, with both sides largely reiterating their positions.    "There is still a very large gap between the employers andthe FNV, and I can't say that we expect to reach any agreement.But at least we are still talking," a union spokesman said.    Employers organization chairman, Jacques Schoufour, accusedthe FNV of intransigence in refusing to alter its stance at allover the past two months.    "The FNV is not serious about our discussions and I amreally not optimistic about it changing its point of view atall."    "If we find this afternoon that the FNV still refuses toaccept the necessary redundancies in the general cargo sector,then we will break off the talks and the redundancies may beginlater this month," Schoufour said.    The series of strikes, which employers say has cost themmore than seven mln guilders in lost import business in thepast six weeks, began on January 19 in protest at plans for 800redundancies from the sector's 4,000 workforce starting with350 this year.    Late last month Social Affairs minister Louw de Graaf saidunless the dispute was settled by yesterday he would withdrawthe sector's 10 mln guilder annual labour subsidy.    Both sides wrote to the minister yesterday setting outtheir cases, but Schoufour said he did not expect to hear fromhim before Wednesday at the earliest. Reuter
MCLEAN INDUSTRIES <MII> UNIT TRANSERS SERVICE McLean Industries Inc said itsshipping subsidiary, United States Lines Inc, reached anagreement in principle to transfer its South American serviceto American Transport Lines Inc, a subsidiary of <CrowleyMaritime Corp>.    Under the terms of the agreement, United States Lines willlease five vessels to American Transport for 15 months with anoption to extend the period up to 10 years, the company said.    In return, U.S. Lines will receive a fixed payment and apercentage of revenues for at least three years and possibly aslong as American Transport utilizes its vessels and conductstrade in South America, the company said.    The companies will consummate the transactions as soon asthe required approvals are obtained, McLean said. Reuter
JANUARY CRUDE OIL MOVEMENTS FALL SEVEN MLN TONS Worldwide spot crude oil movements fellto 30.07 mln long dwt in February from 37.25 mln tons inJanuary and 41.44 mln in December, London shipbroker HowardHoulder said.    The decline mainly reflected a sharp drop in movements outof the Mideast Gulf, which totalled 7.4 mln tons last monthagainst 11.65 mln in January. These included shipments towestern options at 2.05 mln tons against 3.59 mln previously.    Liftings from the Gulf to eastern options fell to 4.15 mlntons from 5.94 mln and those from the Gulf to other areasdropped to 1.2 mln tons from 2.13 mln, Howard Houlder said.    U.K./Continent coastal movements declined sharply to 2.91mln tons from 4.77 mln but those from the U.K./Continent to theU.S. rose to 1.99 mln from 1.69 mln. Reuter
KENYA SIGNS PACT TO ESTABLISH OWN SHIPPING LINE Kenya has signed an agreement withBritish and German interests to establish a shipping line thatwill handle 40 pct of the country's external trade, sourcesclose to the deal said.    The state-owned Kenya Ports Authority, KPA, signed anagreement with the Hamburg-based shipping line UnimarSeetransport to establish the Kenya National Shipping line,with an initial capital of 100 mln shillings, sources said. KPAwill hold 70 pct of the shares in the new company.    The line will initially charter vessels to operate servicesbetween Mombasa and the main ports of industrial Europe, butmay eventually build or buy its own ships. The sources said itwould aim to carry a large part of Kenya's coffee and teaexports and oil and fertiliser imports. Reuter
UNUSUALLY DRY WEATHER AFFECTS CHINA'S AGRICULTURE Abnormally warm and dry weather over mostparts of China is seriously affecting crops, the New China NewsAgency said.    It said the drought has made rice planting difficult ineight provinces, including Guangxi, Sichuan and Hunan. Plantdiseases and insect pests have increased in wheat-producingareas, it said.    The agency said some areas of Guangxi, Hubei, Shanxi andother provinces have been suffering a drought for more thanseven months.    The agency said the dry weather had reduced the amount ofwater stored by more than 20 pct compared with last March,lowered the water level of many rivers, reduced hydroelectricpower supplies and caused water shortages for industry andconsumers.    The upper reaches of the Yangtze are at their lowest levelsin a century, causing many ships to run aground and makingharbour manoeuvres difficult, it said.    The drought has also increased the number of forest fires.More than 1,000 fires in southern China had destroyed 13,340hectares of forest by mid-February, it said. REUTER
TAIWAN SHIPBUILDER LOOKS FOR JAPANESE VENTURES Taiwan's state-owned China ShipbuildingCorp (CSBC) plans to seek joint production agreements withJapan and further diversify into ship repairing to try to trimits debts, chairman Louis Lo said.    He told Reuters in an interview that CSBC's first jointproduction venture, to build two hulls for <Onomichi DockyardCo Ltd>, was a success. Talks on similar projects have beenheld with other Japanese firms, including Mitsubishi HeavyIndustries Co Ltd <MITH.T> and Ishikawajima-Harima HeavyIndustries Co Ltd <JIMA.T>, he said.    Lo said CSBC delivered the hulls of two 2,200-TEU (twentyfoot equivalent unit) container ships this year to Onomichi,which would complete production.    "We expect the successful cooperation between us andOnomichi will pave the way for further cooperation with otherJapanese shipbuilders in the future," Lo said.    He said Japanese firms would gain from the lower cost ofshipbuilding in Taiwan while CSBC would benefit from Japanesetechnology and marketing. This would pose a challenge tocompetitors in Europe and South Korea.    Lo said CSBC has made losses of about 100 mln U.S. Dlrssince beginning operations in 1975. Its total debt now standsat about 500 mln dlrs, with annual interest payments of nearlythree mln dlrs.    But he said the company, which is Taiwan's largestshipbuilder, still has full government support and had begundiversifying into ship repairing and manufacture of pipes andother machinery.    "We hope we can survive and prosper through diversification,"he said.    Lo said income from ship repairing almost doubled to 20 mlnU.S. Dlrs in the year ended June 1986 compared with theprevious financial year. He estimated income would rise to morethan 25 mln dlrs in 1986/87.    CSBC has orders to build 10 ships totalling 460,000 deadweight tons (dwt) this financial year, compared with 11 shipsof 462,000 dwt in 1985/86, he said.    Lo said the prospects for shipbuilding were gloomy at leastuntil 1991 due to overtonnage, but the outlook for shiprepairing was bright. REUTER
CREDITORS SEEK SWIFT RESCUE PACKAGE FOR JAPAN LINE A group of creditor banks hopes to workout a rescue package for Japan Line Ltd <JLIT.T>, one of theworld's largest tanker operators, by the end of Japan'sbusiness year on March 31, a spokesman for the Industrial Bankof Japan Ltd <IBJT.T> (IBJ) said.    Japan Line's cumulative debt was 68.98 billion yen at theend of September, which exceeded shareholders' equities andreserves totalling 63.40 billion.    In December, Japan Line asked banks to shelve repayment ofabout 124 billion yen in outstanding loans and about 153billion in loans to its subsidiaries.    Japan Line said then that the yen's steep rise and theworld shipping recession had hit the company hard.    The Japanese daily Asahi Shimbun said today that IBJ andthree other banks plan to abandon a total of 16 billion yen inloans to Japan Line and a group of creditor banks plans to buyseven billion yen of new Japan Line shares.    The spokesman for IBJ, Japan Line's largest creditor, saidthe package may write off part of the outstanding loans andwill be worked out before long.    Commenting on the article, he said the details of thepackage have not yet been settled. REUTER
ICE UNCHANGED AT SOVIET OIL PORT OF VENTSPILS Ice conditions are unchanged at theSoviet Baltic oil port of Ventspils, with continuous andcompacted drift ice 15 to 30 cms thick, the latest report ofthe Finnish Board of Navigation said.    Icebreaker assistance to reach Ventspils harbour is neededfor normal steel vessels without special reinforcement againstice, the report said.    It gave no details of ice conditions at the other majorSoviet Baltic export harbour of Klaipeda. Reuter
BLIZZARD CLOSES BOSPHORUS Blizzard conditions halted shippingthrough the Bosphorus waterway and piled snow up to 70 cms deepin central Istanbul, paralysing the city for the second dayrunning.    Snow whipped by 48 kph winds continued to fall on Istanbuland northwest Anatolia after 36 hours and weather reportspredicted no relief for another two days.    Port officials said at least six large vessels in the BlackSea and 13 in the Sea of Marmara were waiting for conditions toimprove.    Istanbul's Ataturk international airport has been closedsince yesterday. Reuter
BAD WEATHER CLOSES ALEXANDRIA PORT, OIL TERMINAL Strong winds and high seastoday closed Alexandria, Egypt's biggest port, and an oilpipeline terminal nearby, officials said.    Facilities of the Suez-Mediterranean Arab PetroleumPipelines Company at Sidi Kreir, 32 km southeast of Alexandria,were closed this morning after one tanker loaded and sailed.    Officials said that five other tankers were waiting outsidethe terminal for conditions to improve. Reuter
ROTTERDAM PORT SUBSIDY TO END JULY 1 - MINISTER Dutch Social Affairs Minister Louw deGraaf announced he is withdrawing the annual 10 mln guilderlabour subsidy for Rotterdam's strike-hit general cargo sectoras from July 1.    Late last month de Graaf said that if the dispute was notsettled by Monday this week he would withdraw the subsidy.    The chairman of the port employers' organization, SVZ,Jacques Schoufour, said he was unhappy with the decision andadded there was now no alternative to proceeding withredundancy plans.    The series of strikes in the sector started on January 19in protest at employers' plans to make 800 redundancies fromthe 4,000-strong workforce by 1990 starting with 350 this year.    Meanwhile, the port and transport union, FNV, attacked lossfigures given for the port for this year.    The figures, issued by accountants on behalf of the SVZ,put total losses for last year at 34 mln guilders and in 1985at 37 mln. Earlier, the employers had put the figure at around30 mln.    The FNV said the actual losses were nearer 17 to 20 mln andsaid the employers had inflated the figures as part of theirplan to restructure completely the port's general cargo sector. Reuter
STRIKING BRAZILIAN SEAMEN HOLD PAY TALKS Striking Brazilian seamen, who saythey have made idle 158 ships and halted Brazilian exports,today held pay talks in Rio de Janeiro with Labour MinisterAlmir Pazzianotto, union officials said.    Jorge Luis Leao Franco, a senior official of the NationalMerchant Marine Union, told Reuters he was optimistic the talkswould lead to an end of the stoppage, which began last Friday.    Brazil's 40,000 seamen are seeking a pay rise of 275 pct.    The union official said the strike had halted a total of158 vessels, including 50 in Brazil's main port, Santos, andabout 50 more in Rio de Janeiro.    Abroad, six ships lay idle, in the Netherlands, Spain,Venezuela, France and South Africa, he said.    Economic analysts said the strike was of serious concern tothe government, which has already had to suspend interestpayments on part of Brazil's foreign debt following a drasticdeterioration in the country's trade balance.    The head of the National Merchant Marine Authority, MuriloRubens Habbema, was quoted in today's Gazeta Mercantilnewspaper as saying that if the strike continued foreign shipscould be authorized to transport Brazilian exports.    "Brazil is living through a crisis at the moment, and it isnot conceivable that exports be hit," he said.    "But even using foreign ships we must not forget that we aregoing to lose foreign exchange paying freight charges abroad,and all this through the fault of the seamen," Rubens Habbemasaid.    A spokesman for the port of Santos, which has been thescene of labour unrest and congestion in recent months, saidmovement of ships out of the port was running at about half itsnormal level of 12 ships a day.    He said a total of 76 ships were either waiting at anchoron moored in the harbour. Reuter
TALKS FAIL TO END BRAZILIAN SEAMEN'S STRIKE Pay talks aimed at ending aweek-old national seamen's strike collapsed today and thestrike will continue, a union official said.    The walkout by Brazil's 40,000 seamen has idled 160 shipsin various ports, Jorge Luis Leao Franco, a senior official ofthe National Merchant Marine Union, told Reuters.    The strikers, who are seeking a 275 pct pay increase, haverejected offers of a 100 pct raise from the state oil companyPetrobras and an 80 pct increase from the National Union ofMaritime Navigation Companies (Syndarma).    Leao Franco said eight hours of talks in Rio de Janeirowith Labor Minister Almir Pazzianotto ended today withoutresolving the dispute.    He said six ships were idle abroad -- in the Netherlands,Spain, Venezuela, France and South Africa.    Economic analysts said the strike was of major concern tothe government, which has suspended interest payments on partof Brazil's foreign debt following a drastic deterioration inthe country's trade balance.    The head of the National Merchant Marine Authority, MuriloRubens Habbema, was quoted today as saying that if the strikecontinued foreign ships could be authorized to transportBrazilian exports.    "Brazil is living through a crisis at the moment and it isnot conceivable that exports be hit," he told the GazetaMercantil newspaper. Reuter
MIDMISSISSIPPI RIVER OPENS TODAY FOR SEASON The Mississippi River is now open forbarge traffic up to the Twin Cities in Minnesota after repairswere completed and the first barges moved upstream through Lockand Dam 20 near Quincy, Ill at 0600 CST today, an Army Corps ofEngineers spokesman said.    About 14 to 15 inches of ice were reported between locksthree and four on the upper Mississippi River, but othersections were generally free of ice, the spokesman said.    Midwestern weather has been so mild that barges probablycould have kept loading at Mid-Mississippi River terminalsthrough the winter, if Lock and Dam 20 had not been scheduledfor repairs, he said.    The Peoria and La Grange locks on the Illinois River arestill scheduled to close July 13, for two months of repairs. Reuter
CHANNEL FERRY REPORTED SINKING OFF BELGIUM The channel ferry Heraldof Free Enterprise from the British Townsend Thorensen companywas sinking off the Belgian coast tonight with 463 people onboard, the Dutch newsagency ANP reported today.    An unspecified number of people had fallen into the water,it said, quoting the pilot organisation in this south-westernDutch port city near the Belgian border.    It said the vessel had capsized after a collision but gaveno more details.    Dan Kaakebeen a spokesman for the Dutch salvage firm SmitInternational told Reuters by telephone from Rotterdam that thevessel was just off the Belgian port of Zeebrugge with 463passengers and crew when the accident occurred at 1850 GMT.    Kaakebeen said the firm had one vessel at the scene andanother on its way with divers on board.    A spokesman at the port authority of nearby Vlissingen saidattempts were being made to pull the vessel into shallowwaters.    Weather conditions were good with no fog or wind, and therewere many other vessels in the area. Reuter
BRAZIL STRIKES CAUSE GOVERNMENT MAJOR PROBLEMS Strikes by Brazil's 40,000seamen and by petrol station owners in four states are causingmajor headaches to a government already wrestling with a debtcrisis.    A week ago seamen began their first national strike for 25years and union leaders say they have seriously affectedBrazilian exports by making idle 160 ships.    On February 20 the Brazilian government suspended interestpayments on part of its huge foreign debt following a sharpdeterioration in its trade balance.    Today the government faced a fresh problem, when mostpetrol station owners in Sao Paulo, the country's industrialheartland, and in three other states closed down to press forhigher fuel prices.    There were fears that the combination of the two stoppagescould lead to a serious fuel shortage.    The seamen's leaders say their strike has halted 48 of the72 ships belonging to the state oil company Petrobras.    The Jornal do Brasil newspaper, in an editorial todayentitled "Dangerous Confrontation," said: "From the economicpoint of view the seamen's strike carries an alarming cost,with grave consequences for the supply situation and for thecountry's external trade."    The seamen are seeking a 275 pct pay rise and have rejectedoffers of up to 100 pct.    Later today the Higher Labour Tribunal in Brasilia is dueto rule on whether the seamen's strike is legal. But a seniorofficial of the National Merchant Marine Union, Jorge Luis LeaoFranco, told Reuters that the strike would continue regardlessof the tribunal's ruling.    Labour unrest has worsened in Brazil following the collapseover the last few months of the government's Cruzado Plan pricefreeze. Prices have been rising at about 15 pct a month. Notonly workers but also businessmen are restive. Petrol stationowners said many garages had closed indefinitely today in SaoPaulo, Parana, Mato Grosso and Mato Grosso do Sul.    Television reports said that in the Parana state capital ofCuritiba petrol stations were only supplying fuel forexceptional cases such as ambulances and funeral processions.    Brazilian garage owners want to be allowed to raise theirprofits on alcohol fuel and petrol sales to 1.26 cruzados (sixU.S. Cents) a litre from 0.56 cruzados (about 2.5 cents).    Queues formed at petrol stations in Sao Paulo late lastnight as motorists filled up their tanks while they stillcould.    Political sources said the government of President JoseSarney was closely following the strikes and the overall fuelsupply situation. Reuter
TWO HUNDRED PEOPLE RESCUED FROM SINKING FERRY About 200 people were rescued, somebadly hurt, from a sinking cross Channel ferry carryingapproximately 540 people off the Belgian port of Zeebrugge, aport control spokesman said.    The spokesman, contacted by telephone, said only one thirdof car ferry, the Herald of Free Enterprise owned by theBritish company Townsend Thoresen, remained above water.    Divers have been sent down to try to rescue passengersbelieved trapped in the ferry, which was on its way fromZeebrugge to the English port of Dover and capsized just offthe pier, he added Reuter
26 REPORTED DEAD IN FERRY DISASTER At least 26 people died whena car ferry struck a pier as it left Belgium for Britain, anurse who took part in the rescue operation said.    Jan Van Moerbeke, a male nurse, said on coming off theHerald of Free Enterprise that he had found six people on topof the vessel who were dead. There were at least another 20dead inside the boat, he added.    The governor of West Flanders province said 240 people werestill unaccounted for. Reuter
TWO HUNDRED FEARED DEAD IN FERRY DISASTER About 200 people are feareddead after a British cross-channel ferry rolled on its side offthe Belgian coast last night -- but almost 350 passengers wereplucked to safety from the ice-cold sea.    Belgian Transport Minister Herman de Croo told reporters: "Ifear the dead could be in hundreds, perhaps 200. Given thestate of the water, I fear there is no hope."    Townsend Thorensen, owners of the 7,951 tonne Herald ofFree Enterprise, said the ferry was carrying 543 people andthat 345 had been rescued. All but one were British. REUTER
FERRY DISASTER MAY RANK AMONG WORST TRAGEDIES Fading hope for passengers trapped aboarda partially-sunk Channel ferry raised fears the accident couldrank among this centuries' worst peacetime shipping tragedies.    Belgian Transport Minister Herman de Croo said there was nohope of rescuing any of about 220 passengers trapped in theHerald of Free Enterprise after it capsized off the Belgiancoast last night.    If confirmed, the toll would make the incident the world'sworst since a Soviet liner, the Admiral Nakhimov, collided witha freighter in the Black Sea last September and sank with theloss of nearly 400 lives. A further 856 people were rescued.    The world's deadliest single peacetime incident at sea wasthe sinking in 1912 of the Titanic with a loss of 1,500 lives.    The second biggest loss of life in peacetime was in 1914when 1,014 people drowned when the liner Empress of Irelandcollided with a freighter on the St Lawrence river in Canada.    The world's worst maritime disaster was in wartime thattook 7,700 lives when the German liner Wilhelm Gustloff wastorpedoed by a Soviet submarine in January 30, 1945.    In 1985, more than 200 were feared dead after two ferriessank near Dhaka, 174 drowned when a ferry capsized in China and147 died when a launch sank off the Malaysian state of Sabah. REUTER
ALMOST 200 DEAD IN FERRY DISASTER There are no more survivors from aBritish cross-Channel ferry disaster off the Belgian coast andalmost 200 people seem certain to have perished, a seniorBelgian official said.    Jacques Thas, in charge of rescue for the Herald of FreeEnterprise, said his men had searched all of the ship exceptsome inaccessible cabins and the control room.    "I am afraid there are no more survivors," he said. Thas said32 of the 543 passsengers and crew were confirmed dead and 160were missing, bringing the total of dead or presumed dead to192. REUTER
EXPERTS HAD EXPRESSED FEARS OVER RO-RO SAFETY As a British government investigation gotunder way into the sinking of the car ferry Herald of FreeEnterprise with heavy loss of life, experts said doubts hadalready been expressed about the roll-on roll-off type of ship.    Shipping minister Lord Brabazon said a preliminaryinvestigation had started into why the 7,951 tonne ferrycapsized and sank in little over a minute as it manoeuvred toleave Zeebrugge on a routine four hour crossing to Dover.    Initial reports spoke of water flooding the car decksthrough the bow doors. But a spokesman for the owners, TownsendThoresen, said it was also possible the ferry had been holed.    Townsend Thoresen operate two other ships identical to theHerald of Free Enterprise, but Brabazon said it was not plannedto pull them out of service at present.    "Our investigator is there already. We shall have to waitand see. But it is too early to say what happened," he told BBCradio.    As the work of retrieving bodies from the half-submergedhulk continued, maritime safety experts in London said doubtshad already been expressed about the design of so-called "RoRo"ferries such as the Herald of Free Enterprise.    In 1980 the Inter-Governmental International MaritimeConsultative Committee issued a report saying more roll-onroll-off vessels were lost in accidents than ships with deckareas divided by bulkheads.    Townsend Thoresen say the ship, built at the West Germanyard of Bremerhaven in 1980, was built to the highest safetystandards.    But salvage expert William Cooper said passengers wouldhave had problems getting off this type of ship because of itsdesign.    Former Townsend Thoresen navigating officer Clive Langleysaid the RoRo type of vessels were similar in some respects toa barge.    "As any sailor knows it only takes two or three inches outof line and you can turn a barge over. An ordinary ship iscompartmentalised and you have more stability," he said.    Cooper said cross-Channel ferries were normally perfectlystable but had huge wide deck areas above the water level.    "If you do get water into that area then you can get verysevere effects on the stability of the ship," he added. REUTER
BRAZIL SEAMEN CONTINUE STRIKE AFTER COURT DECISION Hundreds of marines were on alertat 11 key Brazilian ports after 40,000 seamen decided to remainon indefinite strike, even after the Higher Labour Courtyesterday ruled it illegal, union leaders said.    The halt, the first national strike by seamen in 25 years,started on February 27, and union leaders said they would notreturn to work unless they got a 275 pct pay rise. Shipownershave offered a 100 per cent raise, which the seamen rejected.    "We have nothing to lose. If they want to lay off theworkers, fine, but we are determined to carry on with ourprotest until the end," a union leader said.    He said they had decided in a meeting that if the marinestake over the ships, the seamen would abandon the vessels andlet the marines handle the situation by themselves.    A spokesman for the Rio de Janeiro Port said the order tosend marines to take over the ports was given by Navy MinisterHenrique Saboya on grounds that ports are areas of nationalsecurity. But he said there were no incidents. The strike hascut exports and imports and made an estimated 160 ships idle.    Petrol station owners in four states also continued theirshutdown and there were fears that the combination of the twostoppages could lead to a serious fuel shortage. REUTER
BRAZILIAN SEAFARERS' STRIKE DAMAGES OIL EXPORTS A strike by Brazil's 40,000 seafarerswho want pay rises of up to 180 pct may have cost thestate-owned oil company Petrobras 20 mln dlrs in lost exportorders, the company's commercial director Arthur de Carvalhowas quoted as saying in press reports.    More than 170 ships in Brazil, and about nine more inforeign ports, have been halted by the strike, which began onFebruary 27.    Marines began blockading the ships on Friday after thestrike was ruled illegal, and some strikers are running shortof food, National Merchants Marine Union president Edson Areiassaid. Reuter
BRAZIL SEAMEN CONTINUE STRIKE DESPITE COURT Hundreds of marines were on alertat 11 key Brazilian ports after 40,000 seamen decided to remainon indefinite strike, even after the Higher Labour CourtSaturday ruled it illegal, union leaders said.    The halt, the first national strike by seamen in 25 years,started on February 27, and union leaders said they would notreturn to work unless they got a 275 pct pay rise. Shipownershave offered a 100 per cent raise, which the seamen rejected.    "We have nothing to lose. If they want to lay off theworkers, fine, but we are determined to carry on with ourprotest until the end," a union leader said. more    He said they had decided in a meeting that if the marinestake over the ships, the seamen would abandon the vessels andlet the marines handle the situation by themselves.    A spokesman for the Rio de Janeiro Port said the order tosend marines to take over the ports was given by Navy MinisterHenrique Saboya on grounds that ports are areas of nationalsecurity. But he said there were no incidents. The strike hascut exports and imports and made an estimated 160 ships idle.    Petrol station owners in four states also continued theirshutdown and there were fears that the combination of the twostoppages could lead to a serious fuel shortage. Reuter
HUTCHISON UNIT BUYS CONTAINER CRANES FROM JAPAN Container port operator, <Hong KongInternational Terminals Ltd>, a 89 pct held unit of HutchisonWhampoa Ltd <HWHH.HK>, said it has placed a 164 mln H.K. Dlrorder for seven quayside container cranes of 800 tons each withJapan's Mitsui Engineering and Shipbuilding Co Ltd <MSET.T> forMay 1988 to August 1989 delivery.    Hong Kong International Terminals operates 32 cranes. REUTER
BOSPHORUS SHIPPING MOVES, ISTANBUL OFFICES CLOSE Istanbul remained at a virtualstandstill today under snow up to a meter deep but shipping wasmoving through the narrow Bosphorus waterway linking the Sea ofMarmara and the Black Sea, officials said.    The authorities ordered government offices closed untilWednesday. Many banks, businesses and schools stayed shut asworkers struggled to keep main roads and supply lines open inthis city of 6.5 mln people.    The second blizzard to hit Istanbul in a week stoppedyesterday afternoon and the international airport reopenedtoday after a two-day closure. It was also shut earlier lastweek. Reuter
GALE FORCE WINDS BUFFET GREAT LAKES The National Weather Service saidwarnings of gale force winds remained in effect over lakesErie, Huron and Michigan.    Also, warnings have been posted for large waves and beacherosion along the shores of the Lakes. Winds gusting to 45 mphcaused four to six foot waves along the western and southernshores of Lake Michigan during the morning.    Advisories for low wind chill temperatures have also beenposted across portions of upper Michigan and northern lowerMichigan. Early morning gusty winds brought the wind chill to15 and 25 degrees below zero.    Freezing rain was scattered over central Colorado by midmorning, also over central Kansas and northeast Illinois.    Snow reached from south central Montana across Wyoming,western Nebraska and western Kansas. Snow also extended acrossnorthern Wisconsin, upper Michigan and northern lower Michigan.    Rain reached along the northern Pacific Coast, acrossnorthwest Utah, Maryland, Deleware, Virginia, the Carolinas,Georgia and northern Alabama. Reuter
FERRY DISASTER CLAIMS COULD TOP 30 MLN STG U.K. Insurers could face more than 30 mlnstg of insurance claims following the Zeebrugge ferry disaster,a spokesman for Lloyds of London said.    It could take weeks before the extent of the compensationclaims for passengers, crew and cargo was known and also beforeit was known how much, if any, of the ship could be salvaged,said David Larner of Lloyds.    The hull and machinery of the Herald of Free Enterprisewere valued at 25 mln stg and were insured by TownsendThoresen's parent company Peninsular and Oriental SteamNavigation Co Plc <PORL.L>.    The vessel was in turn reinsured in the London market withLloyds and various other companies, Larner said.    Passengers, crew and cargo were insured by the StandardSteamship Protection and Indemnity Association, one of severalshipowners' mutual insurance funds worldwide. These were alsounderwritten by Lloyds and other companies.    Larner said claims from passengers could be expected tototal at least five mln stg, given the number of deaths and thenormal level of liability set by the Athens Convention of 1974of between 30,000 stg and 50,000 in case of death.    Shipping sources said, however, that these claims couldsoar if a court found there was negligence or design faultsinvolved.    Larner said estimates of compensation claims "were pureguess work" at this time. But if the ship could not be salvaged,the claims would total at least 30 mln stg.    Shares of insurances on the London stock exchange fellacross the board in a generally weak market.    General Accident fell 21p to 936, Royal Insurance dropped18p to 966 and Prudential fell 9p to 888.    P and O shares stood at a late 616, 27p lower on the day. REUTER
LONDON GRAIN FREIGHTS wheat Ria Luna 20,000 mtNorrkoping and Djuron/EC Mexico 12.50 dlrs option loadingUddevalla at 50 cents less 4,000/1,500 16-23/3 Continental.    Reference New York Grain Freights 2 of March 6, brokers saythe charterer of the Saturn from US Gulf to Japan is reportedto be Nordstrom and Thulin, while the Antigone is reported tohave been arranged from Tilbury to the Black Sea by Sovietcharterers. Reuter
BERMUDA STAR LINE <BSL> TO MAKE ACQUISITION Bermuda Star Line Inc said it hasagreed in principle to acquire 815-passenger SS Liberte fromBarnstead Shipping Ltd for use in its New York/Montreal"Northeast Passages" cruises, starting this summer.    The company said it is working to conclude a leasefinancing or other financing for the purchase of the 23,500 tonvessel, which is to be delivered in early April and renamedCanada Star.    Terms were not disclosed. Reuter
EUROPE SHIPPING EXPORTS TO S AFRICA OFF 40 PCT The volume of European exports toSouth Africa carried by container line vessels has declined 40pct in the last two years, British shipping executive AntonyButterwick said.    Butterwick told reporters that despite the drop and lowfreight rates, the shipping conference he heads will increasethe frequency of sailings to South Africa as a "very strong actof faith and confidence" in the country's future.    He is chairman of the Europe South and South-East AfricanConference Lines and joint managing director of P and OContainers Ltd.    A statement issued by the conference here said frequency ofSouthern Africa/Europe container service sailings is beingincreased from nine to seven days.    "This is the most positive development on the shipping frontbetween South Africa and its main trading partners in Europefor more than four years, when the service last operatedweekly," it said. Reuter
SEAMAN'S STRIKE CONTINUES, MARINES UNLOAD SHIPS Brazilian marines were todayworking on the unloading of ships at the local port as anational strike by 40,000 seamen entered its 10th day withoutsigns of an agreement.    The halt, the first national strike by seamen in 25 years,started on February 27, and union leaders said they would notreturn to work unless they received a 275 pct pay rise.    Shipowners have offered a 100 pct raise, which the seamenrejected.    "Television reported that the port was operating at fullspeed, but that's not true," a striking seaman told Reuters.    "The marines are doing their best, but they don't have themanpower nor the experience to control the situation in such aquick period," he said.    Port officials said the national halt had already causedlosses estimated at 1.5 mln dlrs.    Despite the presence of marines, there were no reports ofincidents. Reuter
UNION, SHIPPERS AGREE TO CUT N.Y. PORT COSTS The New York Shipping Association andInternational Longshoremen's Association said they agreed tocut cargo assessments at the Port of New York and New Jersey bymore than 50 pct on some labor intensive cargos.    The charges on cargo handled by union workers will bereduced to 2.85 dlrs a ton from 5.85 dlrs a ton, effectiveApril one, according to the agreement between the union andshippers. The assessments are used to fund workers' benefits.    "What were doing is lowering the price to get more bulkcargo flowing through here," a spokesman for the New YorkShipping Association said.
CSX <CSX> UNIT SETS IMPROVED SHIPPING SERVICE CSX Corp's Sea-Land Corp unitsaid it will offer improved containership services betweenPuerto Rico and the East Coast and Gulf Coast of the UnitedStates, beginning March 16.    The carrier said it will provide shorter door-to-doortransit times, more convenient cargo availability and betterrail connections for traffic moving between Puerto Rico andNorth America. Reuter
GRAIN SHIPS LOADING AT PORTLAND There were three grain ships loadingand two ships were waiting to load at Portland, according tothe Portland Merchants Exchange. Reuter
SEARCH FOR BRITISH FERRY'S TOXIC CARGO CONTINUES The search continued for acargo of poisonous chemical substances loaded on the Herald ofFree Enterprise Ferry which capsized in Zeebrugge harbourFriday.    A total of 72 drums of various toxic materials which wereloaded on trucks in the ship's hold have been recovered, butBelgian authorities warned it was essential to recover afurther 61 containers of a cyanide-based solution.    A net has been thrown over the gaping loading doors at thefront of the ship to prevent any more drums floating out.    Salvage workers have moved cranes into place alongside thewreck of the 7,951 ton roll-on, roll-off ferry which now liespartly submerged on a sandbank outside the harbour.    The ferry's owner is <European Ferries Plc>, majority ownedby Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Co Plc <PORL.L>.    The operation to right the vessel began yesterday afterdivers abandoned their search for more bodies. Experts said itcould take months to refloat the ship and free the 80 bodiesestimated to be trapped amid debris.    "The problem is that in these waters you can normally expectone working day out of four," said Daan Kaakebeen of DutchSalvage experts Smit Tak International of Rotterdam. Heestimated the job itself would require 35 working days.    Using reinforced cables, salvage experts intend to raisethe ship and set it down into a trench dug alongside.    Salvage work could pinpoint the exact cause of the loss ofthe ferry, one of three sister vessels plying cross-Channelroutes from England to continental Europe.    Suspicion at present is focused on the ferry's main vehicleloading doors, set close to water level.    In London, Transport Secretary John Moore told parliamentyesterday that the ship keeled over after water gushed inthrough the bow doors. He said a major government inquiry intothe disaster will be held, all similar ferries sailing fromBritain will be inspected and owners will be asked to fitlights to give warning if bow doors are not properly closed.    Experts carrying out tank and computer tests to determinehow the accident occurred will focus attention on the ship'sdoors, its ballast system and crew procedures, he added.    Two other investigations into the disaster have also begun,one Belgian and one by the ferry's owners. REUTER
WORK AT CHITTAGONG PORT HALTED BY STRIKE Cargo handling remainshalted at Bangladesh's Chittagong port since nearly 7,000workers walked out on Monday following a pay dispute, the PortWorkers Association said today.    Fourteen ships are stranded at the port.    Port officials said they would meet Association leaderstoday to try to resolve the dispute. REUTER
DUTCH PORT UNION TO MEET PARLIAMENTARIANS TODAY Dutch port and transport union, FNV,is presenting its case against 800 planned redundancies inRotterdam's general cargo sector to parliament's standingcommittee on social affairs today, a union spokesman said.    With 285 of the 4,000-strong workforce on strike, the unionwill tell the committee the government has a duty to help solvethe dispute that has been disrupting the general cargo sectorfor more than seven weeks, the spokesman added.    The union will also take its case against the redundancies,350 of them planned for this year, to a court in Amsterdamtomorrow, he added. Reuter
DUTCH PARLIAMENT OFFERS LITTLE HELP IN PORT ROW Dutch members of parliament said theycould do little to help resolve the dispute over redundanciesin Rotterdam port's general cargo sector and urged the unionand employers to sort out their differences themselves.    Both sides gave evidence to the all-party standingcommittee on Social Affairs today, but committee members saidthey saw little chance of parliamentary intervention.    The dispute began on January 19 in protest at employers'plans for 800 redundancies from the 4,000-strong workforce,starting with 350 this year. The port and transport union, FNV,is to challenge the redundancies in an Amsterdam courttomorrow. Reuter
AMERICAN PRESIDENT <APS> TO LEASE MORE SHIPS American President Cos Ltd saidits American President Lines shipping subsidiary  obtainedfinal approval from U.S. and Japanese authorities to lease fournew ships from Lykes Bros Co.    The move will will enable it to boost service in thePacific by 15 pct in 1987, American President said.    The company said it will lease the ships for three yearsand hold two additional three-year options.    It said American President Lines is currently operating atcapacity in the Pacific and the new ships will arrive in timefor the normal demand surge of the spring and summer seasons. Reuter
BRAZIL'S SARNEY MEETS STRIKES WITH SHOW OF FORCE With troops in place in Brazil'sports and oil installations, the government of Prersident JoseSarney today sought to end a wave of labour unrest by a show offorce.    Yesterday the government sent thousands of troops supportedin some instances by tanks to occupy nine oil refineries andsix areas of oil production.    The state-oil company Petrobras requested the interventionbecause of a threatened strike by 55,000 oil industryemployees.    The government had already dispatched more than 1,000marines to occupy the country's main ports after a nationalseamen's strike was ruled illegal last Friday.    The strike by 40,000 seamen, now in its 13th day,represents a stern challenge to the government.    The stoppage has delayed exports at a time when Brazildesperately needs foreign exchange.    It was a deterioration in the country's trade balance whichprecipitated Brazil's current debt crisis and the decision onFebruary 20 to suspend interest payments on 68 billion dlrs ofcommercial debt.    There was no sign today of an early end to the seamen'sstrike, which has badly hit the port of Santos -- the mostimportant in South America -- and the country's other mainports.    Small groups of marines armed with submachineguns stand onthe quays near the strike-bound ships, but the militarypresence here is generally discreet.    A total of 800 marines are inside the docks but most areout of sight.    Yesterday marines and police occupied one ship, theDocemarte, seamen's leaders said. After explaining to thecaptain that the strikers faced up to one year in jail becausethe strike was illegal, the men returned to work.    One of the strike leaders, Elmano Barbosa, said "it is apsychological war. They are using force and we are usingpeaceful methods."    Port sources said only two Brazilian ships in Santos, theDocemarte and the Henrique Leal, were working.    At the seamen's national strike headquarters in Rio deJaneiro, spokesmen say a total of about 190 ships arestrike-bound in Brazil and in foreign ports.    Contradicting earlier reports from strike headquarters inRio de Janeiro, seamen in Santos said the strikers on boardships here were not running out of food.    The current labour unrest is the worst faced by Sarney'scivilian government since it came to power two years ago.    Yesterday, in a separate protest, hundreds of thousands offarmers held rallies directed largely against high bankinterest rates.    The current rash of labour unrest in industry andagriculture stems from the failure of the government'snow-collapsed Cruzado Plan price freeze. Reuter
BRAZIL COFFEE EXPORTS DISRUPTED BY STRIKE An 11-day-old strike byBrazilian seamen is affecting coffee shipments and could leadto a short term supply squeeze abroad, exporters said.    They could not quantify how much coffee has been delayedbut said at least 40 pct of coffee exports are carried byBrazilian ships and movement of foreign vessels has also beendisrupted by port congestion caused by the strike.    A series of labor disputes and bad weather has meantBrazil's coffee exports have been running at an average twoweeks behind schedule since the start of the year, one sourceadded.    By the end of February shipments had fallen 800,000 bagsbehind registrations, leaving around 2.4 mln bags to be shippedduring March. By March 10 only 230,000 bags had been shipped,the sources said.    Given Brazil's port loading capacity of around 100,000 bagsa day, even if normal operations were resumed immediately andnot interrupted by bad weather, some March registered coffeewill inevitably be shipped during April, they added. Reuter
SENATOR LUGAR CALLS FOR CARGO PREFERENCE REPEAL The senior Republican on the U.S.Senate Agriculture Committee, Richard Lugar of Indiana, calledfor repeal of the cargo preference law that aids the Americanshipping industry but which he said hurts farmers.    "Cargo preference is a costly special interest operated atthe expense of American farmers and dockworkers," Lugar said insigning on as a co-sponsor or cargo preference repeallegislation.    The law requires shipment of U.S. goods on American shipsrather than foreign vessels which are less costly. Reuter
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - MITSUBISHI HEAVY FIGHTS BACK International efforts to redirect Japan'sexport-driven economy toward domestic consumption face heavygoing if the country's largest defence contractor and world'sbiggest shipbuilder is anything to go by.    Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd <MITH.T> (MHI), which beganmaking ships and iron goods for Japan's military rulers 130years ago, is responding to the strong yen by redoubling itsefforts to maintain its share of export markets.    "If we sell the best quality and the cheapest products,everyone will buy them," MHI president Yotaro Iida said.    Although two of MHI's main businesses, shipbuilding andpower plant construction, have been hit hard by the yen's 40pct rise against the dollar, the company has no plans toabandon them, Iida told Reuters in an interview.    Its other big activity, aircraft component manufacture, hasperformed so well that MHI now accounts for half of the moneyTokyo spends on defence procurement each year.    "We have made the utmost efforts among the world'smanufacturers to improve productivity," he said. "You may besurprised if you come to see our plants. The outside is old butthe inside is ultra-modern, with robots and computers."    Securities analysts at major securities houses agreed thatMHI has pared costs more quickly than its competitors. Thecompany has slashed its workforce to 47,000 from 86,000 in1976.    Despite its cost-cutting, MHI expects profits to drop 40pct to 30 billion yen in the current fiscal year ending March31, from 1985/86's record 50.14 billion.    And that includes gains from the sale of MHI's stake inMitsubishi Motors Corp <MIMT.T> for 49 billion yen.    Iida is optimistic about the future, however. He said aresurgence of demand from the Middle East following the recentrecovery in oil prices coupled with persistent demand for powerplants in developing countries will help MHI restore itsexports-to-sales ratio to the past decade's average of 30 pct.    MHI's exports-to-sales ratio fell to 25.9 pct in thehalf-year ended last September, from 35 to 36 pct five yearsago.    China is the most promising market, although MHI alsoconsiders other non-oil-producing developing countries as majorcustomers.    "Our customers are all seen as being in trouble due to alack of foreign currency," Iida said. But he added that he feltMHI could sell to those markets with Japanese governmentfinancial support.    It can also finance the plants itself and recover itsinvestment through product sales, a strategy Iida said couldprove popular in the future.    In shipping, MHI is fighting back against low-priced SouthKorean competition by building more technologically advancedcarriers to carry liquefied natural gas and other productsdifficult to transport.    Shipbuilders Association officials told Reuters MHI is theworld's largest shipbuilder in terms of orders and capacity.    Domestically, MHI is involved in 12 national projects,including development of nuclear fusion reactors and launchvehicles for man-made satellites.    It has been the biggest contractor for the Japan DefenceAgency's F-15 and F-14 jet fighters and missiles, although allof these have been built under licence from U.S. Firms.    MHI is now heading up five Japanese companies seeking todevelop the country's own fighter plane to replace thecurrently used F-1 support fighters in the late 1990s.    Military experts said Washington is putting strong pressureon Tokyo to buy a U.S. Plane, either the McDonnell Douglas CorpF-18 or General Dynamics Corp F-16, to reduce Japan's hugetrade surplus with the U.S.    "It might be a good idea to jointly produce planes with U.S.Makers as Japan is supported by the U.S. Defence umbrella," Iidasaid.    MHI also plans to cooperate with the U.S. In its StrategicDefence Initiative space defence program by participating inthe project when it moves from the research stage, he said.    The U.S. Has been seeking Japan's technological support.    In fiscal 1985/86, aircraft accounted for 17.1 pct of MHI'ssales, shipbuilding 17 pct and power plants 27.9 pct. Iida saidthe ideal ratio is power plants 30 pct, aircraft and specialvehicles 25 pct and shipbuilding 15 pct.    As for the remaining 30 pct, Iida said he wanted to shiftthe domestic focus away from heavy machinery sold tomanufacturers and towards household goods, but he declined tospecify which products.    "By the end of this year, you may find our brand name onyour daily products, although this does not mean we will runaway from our mainstream business," he said. REUTER
BANGLADESH PORT WORKERS END STRIKE Cargo handling resumed atBangladesh's Chittagong port today after 7,000 workers endedtheir three day walk-out triggered by a pay dispute, portofficials said.    Loading and unloading of 14 ships stranded by the strikestarted this morning and will be completed as quickly aspossible, they said.    The strikers returned to work after an agreement wasreached last night between port authorities and the PortWorkers Association, they said without giving details. REUTER
STRIKING BRAZIL SEAMEN THREATEN MASS RESIGNATION Striking seamen said they wouldoffer their collective resignation rather than end their13-day-old national strike on management's terms.    The seamen said they were spurred to their decision aftermarines occupied the ship Docemarte in Santos harbour Tuesdaynight. They said seamen on the vessel were being forced to workunder duress.    President Jose Sarney's government despatched troops toBrazil's ports and oil installations on Tuesday.    Seamen in Santos, Brazil's main port, are in defiant mood.One of their leaders, Orlando dos Santos, told Reuters thatmost of the 1,100 seamen in the port offered their resignationson Wednesday. The national strike headquarters in Rio deJaneiro said seamen were offering to resign in all thecountry's main ports.    The strike by 40,000 seamen comes as Brazil faces a seriousdebt crisis brought on by a sharp deterioration in its tradebalance. The country needs all the foreign exchange it can get,and shipowners have been quick to denounce seamen for the harmthe strike is doing to exports.    An advertisement placed in the newspapers by the ShipownersAssociation read, "The seamen's strike is illegal, irrationaland unpatriotic."    The seamen respond that they cannot live on their presentsalaries. According to officical pay lists available in theunion's office, the basic pay for ordinary seamen is 1,977cruzados a month, while various allowances can bring theirtotal pay up to 4,000 cruzados a month.    At the other end of the scale, captains earn 7,993 cruzadosa month basic pay, which is brought up to 15,229 cruzados withallowances.     "Brazil's seamen are the second worst paid in the world,after Ghana's," dos Santos said. He said the seamen had notreceived a pay increase since February 1986, and prices havedoubled since then with the collapse of the government'sCruzado Plan price freeze.    Talks in Rio de Janeiro Wednesday involving Labour MinisterAlmir Pazzionotto, seamen and employers failed to resolve thedispute. The seamen are demanding pay raises of about 200 pctbut have been offered less than half that. REUTER
SAUDI SUPERTANKER REPORTED HIT BY IRAN OFF UAE Iran attacked the Saudi Arabiansupertanker Arabian Sea off the United Arab Emirates last nightbut the vessel was able to proceed after the incident, LloydsShipping Intelligence reported.    The 315,695-dwt Arabian Sea had set sail on Tuesday afterloading oil at the Saudi port of Ras Tannurah. Lloyds said theattack occurred at about 2200 hrs local time (1800 GMT). Reuter
PANAMANIAN WHEAT SHIP STILL GROUNDED OFF SYRIA The Panamanian bulk carrier Juvena isstill aground outside Tartous, Syria, despite discharging 6,400tons of its 39,000-ton cargo of wheat, and water has enteredthe engine-room due to a crack in the vessel bottom, LloydsShipping Intelligence Service said.    The Juvena, 53,351 tonnes dw, ran aground outside Tartousport basin breakwater on February 25 in heavy weather and roughseas. Reuter
VAN OMMEREN ACQUIRES DUTCH GAS CONTAINER UNIT Dutch shipping and transport groupPHS Van Ommeren NV <OMMN.AS> said it has taken over a smallDutch gas container firm as a first step in establishing aworld-wide gas container organisation.    The firm, Liquid and Gas Transport BV (LGT), employs 10people and has a fleet of 200 gas containers.    Van Ommeren will shortly open an office in Singapore andexpand its facilities in Houston to establish the gas containernetwork.    REUTER
TURKISH SHIP HEADED FOR FLORIDA AFTER EXPLOSION The Turkish ore/bulk/oil vessel OboEngin, 78,078 tonnes dwt, had an explosion in its boileryesterday, Lloyds shipping Intelligence Service reported.    The vessel has retained some power and yesterday eveningwas in position Lat. 25 57 N., Long. 75 06 W. It is divertingto Jacksonville, Florida, with its cargo of 58,000 tons ofcoal.   The vessel was bound for Iskenderun, Turkey from LakeCharles. Reuter
ST LAWRENCE SEAWAY TO OPEN ON SCHEDULE The St Lawrence Seaway and the WellandCanal linking Lakes Erie and Ontario were expected to open asscheduled on March 31 and April 1, respectively, a St LawrenceSeaway official said.    The entire Seaway is already free of ice due to the mildWinter and could be open for navigation today, "but theredoesn't seem to be enough demand from shipping companies towarrant an early opening," the Canadian official said.    Repairs are continuing at a stepped up pace on the WellandCanal and should be completed by the April 1 start-up date, sheadded. Reuter
TWO BRAZILIAN SHIPPING FIRMS SETTLE WITH STRIKERS Two small shipping companies havereached a pay deal with striking seamen, but union leaders saidmost of Brazil's 40,000 seamen were still on strike.    A union spokesman in Rio de Janeiro said the seamen hadaccepted a 120 pct pay offer from the companies, Globo andFlumar, which have less than 200 employees each.    The two-week strike comes as Brazil faces a debt crisis andis delaying exports badly needed to earn foreign exchange.    Labour Minister Almir Pazzionotto said the government willnot force a settlement of the strike, which was ruled illegallast Friday. REUTER
JAPAN SHIPBUILDERS SEEK CARTEL TO RESTRICT OUTPUT Japanese shipbuilders have applied to thestate's Fair Trade Commission to form a cartel to restricttonnage built to about half of total capacity for the yearstarting April 1, officials of the Shipbuilders Association ofJapan said.    Under the plan, 33 yards capable of building ships of morethan 10,000 gross tons will curtail operations to three mlncompensated gross registered tonnes (CGRT) a year againstcapacity of about six mln CGRT.    The Transport Ministry estimates new orders at 3.3 mln CGRTin the year to March 1988 and 3.1 mln the following year.    The industry has curtailed production due to oversupplynearly every year since 1977/78, under cartel or TransportMinistry guidelines. The latest guidelines call for a ceilingof four mln CGRT in the year to March 31.    The cartels, self-imposed and self-regulated, are notlegally binding, but industry finds it in its own interest tostick to them.    The slowdown in orders has been caused by the strong yenand a protracted worldwide shipbuilding slump. REUTER
TWO BRAZILIAN SHIPPING FIRMS SETTLE WITH STRIKERS Two small shipping companies havereached a pay deal with striking seamen, but union leaders saidmost of Brazil's 40,000 seamen were still on strike.    A union spokesman in Rio de Janeiro said the seamen hadaccepted a 120 pct pay offer from the companies, Globo andFlumar, which have less than 200 employees each.    The two-week strike comes as Brazil faces a debt crisis andis delaying exports badly needed to earn foreign exchange.    Labour Minister Almir Pazzionotto said the government willnot force a settlement of the strike, which was ruled illegallast Friday. REUTER
COURT PUTS INJUNCTION ON DUTCH PORT REDUNDANCIES Employers in Rotterdam port'sstrike-hit general cargo sector have been served with aninjunction until May 7 preventing them from continuing withplans for 350 redundancies this year, an employers'organisation spokesman said.    An Amsterdam court yesterday ruled there had been a legalfault in the employers' redundancy procedure.    The employers' spokesman said they were likely to restartthe redundancy procedure afresh next week in an attempt topre-empt the May 7 final court ruling.    Port and transport union representative Paul Rosenmullerdescribed the court ruling as a victory for the union, butadded there was still a long way to go before the dispute thathas hit the general cargo sector for the past eight weeks wasresolved.    Rosenmuller said there would be a meeting of the sector's4,000 workers this afternoon to decide on further action in thecampaign of lightning strikes that began on January 19 inprotest at planned redundancies of 800, starting with 350 thisyear.    The employers said there were no immediate plans formeetings with the union either on the proposed redundancies oron a new work practice agreement in the sector.    Meanwhile, discussions on a new work agreement in theport's grain sector, due to resume next week, are stalemated,although agreement could be close in the coal and ore sector,the employers' spokesman added. Reuter
STRIKE TO CLOSE NEW ZEALAND PORTS ON MONDAY Harbour workers said they willstrike for 24 hours on Monday, effectively closing all NewZealand's ports.    The strike is over deadlocked wage negotiations.    A Harbour Employees Workers' Union spokesman told reportersthere will be no ship movements in and out of ports frommidnight on Sunday (1200 hrs GMT March 15).    There will be no loading or unloading involving harbourboard workers and the Cook Strait ferries, which provide avital link between New Zealand's North and South Islands, willnot run, he added. Reuter
TWO BRAZILIAN SHIPPING FIRMS SETTLE WITH STRIKERS Two small shipping companies reacheda pay deal with striking seamen late yesterday, but unionleaders said most of Brazil's 40,000 seamen were still onstrike.    A union spokesman in Rio de Janeiro said the seamen hadaccepted a 120 pct pay raise offer from the companies, Globoand Flumar, which have less than 200 employees each.    The two-week strike comes as Brazil faces a debt crisis andis delaying exports badly needed to earn foreign exchange.    Labour Minister Almir Pazzionotto said the government willnot force a settlement of the strike, which was ruled illegallast Friday. Reuter
UNOFFICIAL STRIKE HITS ROTTERDAM GRAIN SECTOR About 220 men in Rotterdam port'sgrain sector stopped work this afternoon in an unofficialprotest at the slow progress of negotiations over a new workpractice agreement, a spokesman for the port and transportunion FNV said.    Negotiations between the union and employers, which are dueto resume early next week, are currently stalemated with theunion refusing to accept sweeping changes in working hours andpractices in return for a 1.5 pct pay increase.    The FNV spokesman said the action did not yet have officialbacking, but added that next week matters might be different. Reuter
DUTCH PORT UNION CALLS OFF GENERAL CARGO STRIKES Dutch port and transport union, FNV,has called off the strikes against planned redundancies thathave hit Rotterdam port's general cargo sector for the pasteight weeks, strike leader Paul Rosenmuller told a massmeeting.    The decision followed yesterday's ruling by an Amsterdamcourt preventing the sector's employers continuing with currentplans for 350 redundancies this year until the court sits againon May 7, Rosenmuller told a meeting of the general cargosector's 4,000 workers today.    The court ruled the employers had made a mistake in thecomplicated legal procedure for obtaining official permissionfor the redundancies, and therefore could not proceed.    "There is no need to continue the strikes for the moment nowthe immediate pressure of redundancies has been lifted,"Rosenmuller said.    But he added that the strikes, which began on January 19 inprotest against plans for 800 redundancies by 1990, couldresume at any time before May 7 if the employers made any movesto re-apply for permission for the redundancies.    SVZ labour relations manager Gerrard Zeebregts said theywould be meeting their lawyers today with a view to re-applyingfor this permission next week in the hope of gaining approvalfor the redundancies within a month. Reuter
SINGAPORE TO SPEND 1.2 BILLION DLRS ON PORTS The Port of Singapore Authority (PSA)will spend 1.2 billion dlrs to develop port facilities andcargo-handling equipment over the next five years,Communications Minister Yeo Ning Hong told parliament.    Yeo said the improvements were needed to cope with anexpected growth of ship tonnage and cargo handled by the port,but gave no further details.    The PSA handled 529 mln gross-registered tonnes of cargo in1985, according to the latest available statistics from theport authority. Reuter
BRAZILIAN TROOPS TO LEAVE OIL REFINERIES Brazil's labour troubles eased alittle today as the authorities announced they were withdrawingtroops from the country's main oil installations occupied threedays ago.    The troops went in at the request of the state-oil companyPetrobras because of the threat of a strike by 55,000 oilindustry employees.    Petrobras said in a statement today it had requested thewithdrawal of the troops. The situation in the refineries wascalm, it said, and the employees had indicated theirwillingness to negotiate a pay deal.    A national seamen's strike, however, continued and marinesremained in the country's main ports. The marines weredespatched to the ports after the seamen's strike, now twoweeks old, was ruled illegal last Friday.    A spokesman at the national strike headquarters in Rio deJaneiro said today a total of l63 ships were strike-bound, 135in Brazil and 28 in foreign ports.    Yesterday two small companies specialised in the transportof chemicals, Global and Flumar, struck a pay accord with theirseamen who have secured a 120 pct increase.    Brazilian newspapers today hailed these agreements as asign that the national strike could soon come to an end.    Both companies employ fewer than 200 seamen and unionleaders said the vast majority of Brazil's 40,000 seamen werestill on strike.    The threat of a stoppage by oil industry employees appearedtoday to be receding. Petrobras said in its statement that thecompany would meet union leaders for pay talks in Rio deJaneiro next Wednesday.    Labour Minister Almir Pazzionotto would act as a mediator.    Besides industrial troubles, there has also beenconsiderable unrest this week in the agricultural sector.    On Tuesday hundreds of thousands of farmers held ralliesthroughout the country to protest against high interest rates.    Television reports showed some of these protests stillcontinuing today, with farmers blockading banks with theirvehicles in several towns in the states of Sao Paulo andParana.    The strikes in Brazil come as the government is trying toextricate itself from a serious debt crisis brought on by adeterioration in its trade balance.    On February 20 President Jose Sarney announced that Brazilwas suspending interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of debt toprivate banks.    Because of the seamen strike exports are being delayed andthe country is losing badly needed foreign exchange. Reuter
IRAN HAS ANTI-SHIP MISSILES NEAR GULF - PAPER Iran has deployed about six largemissiles near the Strait of Hormuz which increase the threat toshipping in the Gulf, the New York Times said.    The paper quoted U.S. Intelligence sources as saying themissiles appeared to be of a Chinese design known as HY-2 whichis based on the Soviet SSN2 or Styx missile.    Styx missiles have a range of up to 50 miles.    It said the missiles had been deployed at two sites andquoted a naval analyst as saying they could be used to sink asupertanker and block the Strait of Hormuz.    Missiles now used by Iran had only a fraction of theexplosive power of the Styx and could sink a supertanker onlywith a lucky hit, the paper said. None of the new missiles hadbeen fired yet, it added.    The CBS television network reported on Friday that Iran hadinstalled new missiles along the Gulf and said Washington hadwarned Tehran not to use them against civilian shipping. REUTER
BRAZILIAN BANK WORKERS DECIDE ON NATIONAL STRIKE Brazilian bank workers votedto launch a nationwide strike this month, compounding labourunrest arising from the failure of the government'santi-inflation plan.    At a rally in this city, about 100 km northwest of SaoPaulo, about 5,000 bank workers voted to strike on March 24unless their demand for 100 pct pay rises is met.    Wilson Gomes de Moura, president of the nationalconfederation which groups the bank employees' 152 unionsrepresenting 700,000 workers, told Reuters the indefinitestoppage would affect all banks.    The vote came as a stoppage by seamen entered its thirdweek and as 55,000 oil workers threatened action against thestate-owned petroleum company Petrobras.    The government ordered thousands of troops into therefineries on Tuesday to forestall any occupation, but thetroops were removed yesterday.    Petrobras said it had requested their withdrawal becausethe refineries were calm and oil workers had indicated theirwillingess to negotiate next Wednesday. The government has alsosent marines into the main ports.    A spokesman at strike headquarters for the seamen in Rio deJaneiro said unions were studying an offer by privateshipowners for a 120 pct pay rise.    Seamen employed by two small companies have alreadyaccepted a 120 pct pay rise and returned to work, as have about5,000 seamen employed by Petrobras.    Last week also saw widespread protests by hundreds ofthousands of farmers over what they see as unfairly highinterest rates charged by banks.    According to official estimates, prices rose by more than33 pct in the first two months of this year. REUTER
JAPAN LINE SELLING TANKERS AND BULKERS Major tanker operator, Japan Line Ltd<JLIT.T>, is selling 20 VLCCs and several bulk carriers forscrap or further trading, industry sources said.    The tanker disposals include Japan Orchid (231,722 dwt),Japan Lupinus (233,641 dwt), Sovereign (233,313 dwt), Rosebay(274,531 dwt), Saffron (268,038 dwt) and Cattleya (267,807dwt), all of which have been reported on the London sale andpurchase market, they said, but refused to give furtherdetails.    Japan Line officials declined to comment. REUTER
INDONESIA PLANS TO BUILD PALM OIL TERMINAL Indonesia will build a crude palm oilterminal at a new port on Batam island, south of Singapore,Research and Technology Minister Yusuf Habibie said.    The terminal will be able to handle 2.1 mln tonnes of crudepalm oil from new plantations in northern Sumatra and westernKalimantan (Borneo), he said.    A tender for engineering work on the Asia Port project willbe offered mid-year. Habibie did not say when the terminal wasexpected to be operational. Reuter
NORWAY APPROVES TRADE BAN AGAINST SOUTH AFRICA Norway's parliament has approved anextensive trade ban against South Africa but left shipowners akey loophole through which controversial oil shipments onNorwegian tankers may continue, government officials said.    The unilateral boycott, proposed by Norway's minorityLabour government, gives domestic companies until lateSeptember to cut remaining trade ties with South Africa andNamibia.    "The legislation discussed today must not be seen as anisolated measure, but as a step in an international process,"Norway's foreign minister Thorvald Stoltenberg told parliament.    Government officials said they hope the move will intensifyinternational pressure against the Pretoria regime's apartheidpolicies. Sweden, in a similar move last week, promised to haltall trade with South Africa by October.    Norway's boycott, although forbidding crude oil shipmentsto South Africa on Norwegian-owned tankers, makes an importantexception for ships whose final destination is decided whilethey are at sea.    Oil cargoes are often resold by trades after loading,making it difficult for shipowners to know their ships' finalport at the start of a voyage.    Critics said the bill leaves the door open for continuedoil shipments to South Africa. They called for strictersanctions to stop all Norwegian shipping to South Africa.    Norwegian tankers supplied South Africa with about 30 pctof its crude imports during the early 1980s, but the trade hasdropped sharply to just one cargo in the last three months,trade ministry officials said.    The latest trade figures show Norwegian imports from SouthAfrica dropped 36 pct to 160 mln crowns during the first eightmonths of 1986, while exports plunged 52 pct to 265 mln crownsfrom the year-ago figure.    "Many would say that the law has already had its effectbecause of the dramatic drop in trade between South African andNorway," Foreign Ministry spokesman Per Paust told Reuters.    "Norwegian business at an early stage started restructuringits relations with South Africa in anticipation of the law.    "No one has said the boycott will have a profound effect oninternational trade with South Africa, but it is an importantpolitical statement by the Norwegian government," he said.    The Oslo government said it will review the effects of theban on Norwegian industry after two years and may proposeamendments if industry can show it is hurt by the law.    Norwegian imports from South Africa are limited mainly tohigh-grade manganese and coppernickle ores used in itferro-alloys and light metals industries.    Metals manufacturers estimate some 2,000 jobs could beaffected by the boycott is suitable replacements for these oresare not found.    The legislation now goes on to the upper house for formalratification later this week, parliamentarians said. Reuter
GOTAAS-LARSEN <GOTLF> TO BUILD FIFTH CARRIER Gotaas-Larsen Shipping Corpsaid it had exercised an option to build a fifth in a series ofcrude oil carriers to be constructed by <Daewoo Shipbuildingand Heavy Machinery Ltd> in South Korea. Reuter
PACIFIC RESOURCES <PRI> INSTALLS OIL MOORING Pacific Resources Inc said it hasinstalled a CALM (Catenary Anchor Leg Mooring) single-pointmooring terminal off the southwest coast of Oahu at itsHawaiian Independent Refinery at a cost of 3.5 mln dlrs.    The system transfers crude and fuel oils from tankers tothe refinery's tank farm and carries refined products to shipsfor export, PRI said.    Company chairman Robert G. Reed said the new mooring systemwill permit 24-hour service in most kinds of weather and willreduce ship turnaround time. He said the mooring is the firstof its kind in the U.S.    The new system can accomodate vessels up to 150,000deadweight tons, or one mln barrels of cargo, PRI said. Reuter
N.Z. PORTS REOPEN, BUT FURTHER CLOSURES POSSIBLE Harbour workers returned to workthis morning after a strike in support of pay claims closed NewZealand's 15 ports for 24 hours yesterday.    But the Harbour Workers Union told reporters the paydispute is not settled and the union's national executive willmeet here tomorrow to decide its next moves.    "Obviously we will be considering further industrial action,"Union secretary Ross Wilson said in a radio interview.    The union rejects employers offers of a 7.5 pct pay riseover 15 months. It wants 7.0 pct over 12 months. Reuter
JAPAN FOREIGN SHIPBUILDING ORDERS RISE IN FEBRUARY New foreign shipbuilding orders receivedby Japanese yards in February rose to six vessels totalling329,999 gross tons from three ships of 79,499 tons in January,the Japan Ship Exporters Association said.    This compared with six ships of 125,150 gross tons a yearearlier, an association official said.    The backlog of orders at end-February was 157 ships of 4.41mln gross tons against 161 ships of 4.39 mln a month earlierand 265 vessels of 6.81 mln a year earlier, an associationofficial said. REUTER
LOOPHOLE FOR TANKERS IN NORWAY'S S. AFRICA BAN Norway's parliament has approved anextensive trade ban against South Africa but left shipowners akey loophole through which controversial oil shipments onNorwegian tankers may continue, government officials said.    The unilateral boycott gives domestic companies until lateSeptember to cut trade ties with South Africa and Namibia.    Although forbidding crude oil shipments to South Africa onNorwegian-owned tankers, the boycott makes a crucial exceptionfor ships whose final destination is decided while at sea. Asoil cargoes are often resold after loading, critics said thedoor will be left open for continued shipments to South Africa.    Norwegian tankers supplied South Africa with about 30 pctof its crude oil imports during the early 1980s, but the tradehas dropped sharply to just one cargo in the last three months,trade ministry officials said.    The latest trade figures show Norwegian imports from SouthAfrica dropped 36 pct to 160 mln crowns during the first eightmonths of 1986, while exports plunged 52 pct to 265 mln crownsfrom the year-ago figure.    The boycott legislation now goes to the upper house forformal ratification later this week, parliamentarians said. REUTER
IRAN SAID TO ATTACK CYPRIOT TANKER A Cypriot tanker was set ablaze in thePersian Gulf yesterday after an Iranian gunboat fired missilesat it, shipping sources quoting reports from Japanese tankerssaid today.    No casualties were seen and the tanker Pivot, laden withcrude oil, was towed towards Dubai by tugs after they put outthe fire, the sources said.    Iranian gunboats usually check a ship's nationality andcargo before attacking but the Pivot was hit near Bu Musaisland without warning, they added. Reuter
DUTCH PORT EMPLOYERS RESUME LAY-OFF PLANS Employers in Rotterdam's troubledgeneral cargo sector have decided to restart stalled redundancyprocedures within a week, employers' organisation labourrelations manager Gerard Zeebregts told Reuters.    Port and transport union spokesman Bert Duim said theemployers' decision would not lead to the immediate resumptionof eight weeks of strikes in the sector.    The strike action was called off on Friday after an interimcourt injunction against the employers' plans for 350redundancies this year.    A court in Amsterdam ruled last week the employers had madean error in the complicated procedure for obtaining permissionfor the redundancies and therefore could not proceed until afinal ruling on May 7.    Zeebregts said the initiation of new procedure might welltake up to two months, but the employers were not preparedsimply to sit and wait for the May 7 court ruling with thechance they would have to start all over again in any case.    "We cannot afford not to continue with our plans. Thestrikes have already cost a lot of money and damaged business,and further delays would do even more damage," Zeebregts said.    The campaign of lightning strikes in the port's generalcargo sector began on January 19 in protest at employers' plansfor 800 redundancies from the sector's 4,000 strong workforceby 1990, starting with 350 this year. Reuter
IRAQ SAYS IT ATTACKS TWO SHIPS IN GULF Iraq said its warplanes hit two shipsoff the Iranian coast in attacks last night and early today.    The planes "dealt accurate and effective blows to bothmaritime targets before they returned safely to base," amilitary spokesman told the Iraqi new agency INA.    There was no immediate confirmation of the attacks fromPersian Gulf shipping sources.    The last confirmed Iraqi attack on shipping was on March 8,when an Iranian tanker was hit by a missile south of Iran'sKharg island oil export terminal.    Gulf shipping sources yesterday reported an Iranian warshiphad set the Cypriot supertanker Pivot on fire with a missile.    They said there were no injuries on board and the shipheaded for the Gulf Emirate of Fujairah under its own powerafter the fire was put out.    The Pivot was the 18th ship hit this year in the maritimeextension of the 6-1/2 year-old Iran-Iraq war. Reuter
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - JAPAN SHIPBUILDERS RECOVERY Japan's ailing shipbuilding industryplans to refloat itself in a few years from the twin rocks ofrecession and a strong yen through capacity and workforce cutsand greater use of computers, industry sources told Reuters.    The salvage measures, which include a government-sponsoredrationalisation program, are aimed at clawing back some of themarket which Japan, the world leader, has lost to South Koreathrough currency and labour cost disadvantages, they said.    The sources said South Korea's yards are now some 35 pctmore competitive than Japan's due to such factors.    The government plans to help the industry shed 20 pct ofcurrent capacity within two years through mergers andregrouping under legislation put before Parliament this monthand likely to be approved by May or June, the sources said.    They said from September a semi-government body will assurerepayment of about 50 billion yen in liabilities incurredthrough job losses and the sale of excess capacity, and another30 billion for buying unneeded land and equipment.    Last Friday, the Shipbuilders Association of Japan appliedto the Fair Trade Commission to form a cartel to slash tonnagebuilt to about half of total capacity for a year from April 1.    The commission has held several hearings with the industryand approval should be given this month, the sources said.    A clampdown on output over one or two years combined with aplanned cost-cutting and streamlining program and state supportshould help Japanese yards recover their internationalcompetitiveness, they said.    Under the cartel proposals, 33 yards each capable ofbuilding ships of more than 10,000 gross tonnes would build amaximum of three mln compensated gross registered tonnes (CGRT)in 1987/88. This is about half of total capacity.    This will ease the cut-throat competition which forced mostyards to sign orders below cost, the sources said.    The industry is likely to seek to renew the cartel for1988/89 as the Transport Ministry sees new orders falling to3.1 mln CGRT in 1988/89 from 3.3 mln in 1987/88, they said.    The rationalisation program includes a cut of 20,000 to30,000 of the estimated 100,000 workers in the industry between1986 and 1989.    Japanese yards topped world order books at end-December,followed by South Korea and Taiwan, according to Lloyd'sRegister of Shipping.    However, falling orders and declining internationalcompetitiveness due to the strong yen led to heavy losses inthe industry, the sources said.    Four of Japan's six major heavy machinery and shipbuildingcompanies reported current deficits in the first half of theyear to March 31 and five of them are expected to reportcurrent deficits for the whole of 1986/7, they said.    The shipbuilding companies' streamlining program will raiseproductivity to compete with South Korean yards which have alsobeen hard hit by declining orders and low ship prices in recntyears, the sources said.    In Japan, no single yard leads the industry, resulting infierce competition and slow progress in reducing capacity. Thetwo largest firms -- Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd <MITH.T>and Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Co Ltd <JIMA.T> --account for only 30 pct of ships built, the sources said.    "World shipowners hope Japanese yards can manage to ride outthe recession as their technology is the best in the world,"said an official at a major Japanese shipping company.    The Japanese merchant fleet, the largest after Liberia's,has no intention of shifting to other countries to buy ships,and this will encourage Japanese yards, the sources said. REUTER
U.S. CORN MARKET SKEWED BY SOVIET BUYING Recent purchases of U.S. corn by theSoviet Union have skewed the domestic cash market by increasingthe price difference between the premium price paid at the Gulfexport point and interior levels, cash grain dealers said.    Many dealers expect the USDA will act soon to reduce thecash price premium at the Gulf versus the interior -- which adealer in Davenport, Iowa, said was roughly 20 pct wider thannormal for this time of year at 25 cents a bushel -- by makingit worthwhile for farmers to move grain.    By lowering ASCS county posted prices for corn, the USDAcould encourage farmers to engage in PIK and roll corn sales,where PIK certificates are used to redeem corn stored under thegovernment price support loan program and then marketed.    If the USDA acts soon, as many dealers expect, the movementwould break the Gulf corn basis.    "The USDA has been using the Gulf price to determine countyposted prices," one dealer said. "It should be taking theaverage of the Gulf price and the price in Kansas City," whichwould more closely reflect the lower prices in the interiorMidwest.    "But we don't know when they might do it," an Ohio dealersaid, which has created uncertainty in the market.    The USDA started the PIK certificate program in an effortto free up surplus grain that otherwise would be forfeited tothe government and remain off the market and in storage.    Yesterday, USDA issued a report showing that only slightlymore than 50 pct of the 3.85 billion dlrs in PIK certificatesit has issued to farmers (in lieu of cash payments) had to datebeen exchanged for grain.    With several billion dlrs worth of additional PIKcertificates scheduled to be issued in the coming months, theUSDA would be well advised to encourage the exchange for grainby adjusting the ASCS prices, cash grain dealers said.    A byproduct of the Soviet buying has been a sharp rise inbarge freight costs quoted for carrying grain from the Midwestto the export terminals, cash dealers said.    Freight from upper areas of the Mississippi have risennearly 50 pct in the past two weeks to over 150 pct of theoriginal tariff price. The mild winter and early reopening ofthe mid-Mississippi river this spring have also encouraged thefirmer trend in barge freight, dealers noted.    The higher transportation costs have served to depressinterior corn basis levels, squeezing the margins obtained bythe elevators feeding the Gulf export market as well asdiscouraging farmer marketings, they said.    "The Gulf market overreacted to the Soviet buying reports,"which indicate the USSR has booked over two and perhaps as muchas 4.0 mln tonnes of U.S. corn, one Midwest cash grain tradersaid.    But dealers anticipate that once the rumors subside,freight rates will settle back down because of the overallsurplus of barges on the Midwest river system. Reuter
IRAQ SAYS IT HIT SHIP IN GULF OFF IRAN TODAY Iraq said its warplanes had hit avessel in the Gulf off the Iranian coast today, the third inthe past 24 hours.    A military spokesman told the Iraqi news agency INA thelatest attack was at 1250 GMT. It earlier reported strikes at0650 GMT and at 1930 GMT last night. The planes "dealt accurateand effective blows" to the targets and returned safely to base.    There was no immediate confirmation of the attacks fromGulf shipping sources. The last confirmed Iraqi attack was onon March 8, when an Iranian tanker was hit by a missile southof Iran's Kharg island oil export terminal. Reuter
U.S. CARGO PREFERENCE FUNDING ACCORD SEEN NEAR The U.S. Departments of Agricultureand Transportation are close to agreement on how to fund theincreasing share of food aid to be shipped on U.S. flag vesselsunder a 1985 farm bill provision on cargo preference.    Melvin Sims, USDA's general sales manager told a HouseAgriculture Appropriations subcommittee hearing that the twodepartments are negotiating a "memorandum of understanding" oncargo preference.    Under a 1985 farm bill provision, the percentage of foodaid shipments carried on U.S. flag vessels was to graduallyincrease over three years to 75 pct in 1988. The increased costof using U.S. vessels was to be funded by the TransportationDepartment instead of USDA. However, USDA officials saidTransportation has so far contributed no money.    The agreement between USDA and Transportation is expectedto resolve the matter, USDA officials said.    Tom Kay, administrator of the USDA's Foreign AgriculturalService said yesterday the requirement that more food aidshipments be carried on U.S. vessels has been difficult tomeet.    "As the tonnage (required under cargo preference) goes up,its going to be harder and harder to meet," Kay said.    Two farm state Congressmen, Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) and GlennEnglish (D-Okla.) said cargo preference makes U.S. farm exportprograms more costly and the program should be eliminated.    In the past, farm interests opposed to cargo preferencehave been defeated in Congress by the maritime interests whoview cargo preference as vital to the U.S. shipping fleet. Reuter
SOVIET TIMECHARTERING BOOSTS GRAIN FREIGHT RATES Current interest by Soviet charterers intaking Panamax vessels on timecharter, mainly from the U.S. Tocarry grain, is seen as the chief factor behind the recentsurge in values on the Baltic International Freight FuturesExchange (BIFFEX), dealers said.    Futures soared through the 1,000 points barrier today forthe first time in the spot position since the market opened inMay 1985. However, the market tends to be nervous, with valuessome 100 points above the Baltic Freight Index, which iscalculated on spot physical rates.    No specific figure has been put for Soviet bookings butthey have been sufficient to drain Panamax tonnage (about50,000 to 65,000 tonnes dw) from the U.S. Gulf which wouldnormally operate on the trip to Japan, dealers said.    "It appears that the Chernobyl disaster had a worse effecton its (the Soviet) grain harvest than reported," one said.    Freight rates on the Gulf/Japan grain route havesubsequently been the main beneficiary of current charteringconditions, with very few, if any, Panamax sized ships left forthe remainder of this month in the Gulf. Rates have risensteadily for vessels loading next month.    Dealers said there is even talk that owners are consideringtaking older vessels out of lay-up to meet current demand.    Sentiment has also been aided by suggestions that Chineseoperators may be in the market for similar timecharter businesslater in the year, they said.    They anticipate this would appear around June and it hasprompted keen demand in the July BIFFEX contract, despite itnormally being a slack time in the shipping year.    Market sentiment has fluctuated in recent weeks. Ratesturned down as an earlier rise in bunker prices, which hadsupported the market at the start of the year, faltered butthen recovered on the reported Soviet interest. Reuter
ACCORD SAID IN SIGHT IN BRAZIL SEAMEN'S STRIKE An accord is in sight in Brazil's20-day-old national seamen's strike, which has seriouslydelayed exports, a union official said.    The official, speaking from strike headquarters in Rio deJaneiro, said up to 30,000 of Brazil's 40,000 seamen were stillon strike.    He said the others had returned to work over the last week,accepting pay offers of 120 pct from four private companies andfrom the Frota Nacional de Petroleiros (Fronape), part of thestate-owned oil company Petrobras.    The association grouping private shipowners, Syndarma, hasalso offered 120 pct but talks have so far been deadlocked overpayment for overtime.    The union official said he believed this issue would beresolved shortly. Reuter
PANAMA CANAL OFFICIAL CONFIRMS NO 1988 TOLL RISE Panama Canal toll charges will not risein the year to end-September 1988, despite last October'slandslide which dumped 0.5 mln cubic yards of debris into thewaterway, Canal Commission Administrator Dennis McAuliffe said.    He told a press conference that in confirming theCommission's earlier announcement of unchanged tolls for 1988,he was not necessarily implying there would be a rise in 1989.    The canal would probably make a five to six mln dlr loss inthe current financial year but this could be carried over andmet from next year's revenues.    This year's deficit resulted from the landslide which costthe canal about 15 mln dlrs, McAuliffe said. This includedeight to nine mln dlrs in immediate costs with the rest beingspent on earth-moving operations to prevent any furtherlandslides.    He said the landslide was not caused by deforestation andhe described as grossly exaggerated reports that there was anythreat to the canal's water supply in the foreseeable future.    Studies concerning the possibility of widening the Gaillardcut would not be affected by the landslide, he said, addingthat he expected the canal board to determine whether and whenthe canal needed widening by January 1988 at the latest. Reuter
U.S. SAYS NO SIGNAL BEING SENT BY SHIP MOVEMENTS A U.S. Navy battle group led by theU.S. aircraft carrier Kitty Hawk is in the northern Arabian Seaamid renewed concern about the safety of shipping off the coastof Iran, U.S. officials said today.    But Pentagon spokesman Fred Hoffmann said that reports thenaval strike force was in the region did not mean the UnitedStates was sending a new warning to Iran against escalatingattacks on shipping in the Persian Gulf.    "Nothing like that has happened," he said. "No signal is beingsent."    He said that the Kitty Hawk is operating in an area whereit usually does. "It's normal. It's in the waters where it'ssupposed to be. It's been there for over a month."    The Kitty Hawk and its force of warplanes is the mainstayof the U.S. Indian Ocean Battle Group which patrols a vast areaextending from the Indian subcontinent through the Arabian Sea.    With the Kitty Hawk and its group in the Arabian Sea to thesouth and the U.S. Mideast Task Force in the Persian Gulf tothe north, the United States has 10 warships on either end ofthe strategic Straits of Hormuz.    The Pentagon, as is its custom, declined to confirm theexact whereabouts of the ships or what they were up to.    State Department officials cited concern about the safetyof ships passing through the Straits on the vital oil supplyrun to the Gulf.    Iran has conducted repeated attacks on shipping in the Gulfand U.S. officials have said that Teheran has recently equippeditself with powerful Chinese and Italian-made anti-shipmissiles, posing a greater threat. Reuter
CHINESE PORT UNDERUSED DESPITE CONGESTION NEARBY The Chinese port of Ningbo isworking well below capacity despite being only 130 miles fromShanghai, which is seriously congested, a port official said.    Jiang Feng Xiang said the port -- the deepest in China --handled 17.95 mln tonnes of cargo last year, up from 10.44 mlnin 1985, but well below its potential capacity of 32 mlntonnes. Shanghai handled 100 mln tonnes of cargo in 1986.    Jiang said Ningbo is under-utilised because of itsinadequate facilities, including a single track rail linelinking it to Hangzhou, where it joins the national network.    Ningbo handles crude oil exports and transhipments of coalfrom north to south China and imports include fertiliser andsoda ash and iron ore from Brazil and Australia. The docks canhandle ships of up to 150,000 tonnes and oil tankers of up to200,000 tonnes can load and unload in the harbour.    Most of Ningbo's port infrastructure has been built since1979, official publications show. A container berth and twotimber and three general cargo berths will be added during thecurrent 1986-90 five-year plan, Jiang said.    "The rail line to Hangzhou will be double tracked by 1995.By 2000, maybe, we will overtake Shanghai," he added. REUTER
USDA NOT PLANNING ANY MAJOR PRICING CHANGES The Agriculture Department is notconsidering any major changes in its pricing system for postedcounty prices, an Agriculture Department offical said.    "We do not have current plans to make any major adjustmentsor changes in our pricing," said Bob Sindt, USDA assistantdeputy administrator for commodity operations.    U.S. grain traders and merchandisers said earlier this weekUSDA might act soon to reduce the cash corn price premium atthe Gulf versus interior price levels by dropping ASCS postedprices to encourage interior PIK and roll movement.    But Sindt denied USDA is planning any such changes.    "If people are suggesting that we are going to makewholesale changes in pricing, we are not considering this," hesaid.    Sindt, however, did not rule out the possiblity ofimplementing more minor changes in its pricing system.    "We are continually monitoring the whole nationwidestructure to maintain its accuracy," he said. "If we becomeconvinced that we need to make a change, then appropriateadjustments will be made."    Sindt acknowledged that concern has been voiced that USDA'sprice differentials between the New Orleans Gulf and interiormarkets are not accurate because of higher than normal bargefreight rates.    He said commodity operations deputy administrator RalphKlopfenstein is currently in the midwest on a speaking tour andwill meet with ASCS oficials in Kansas City next week.    Sindt said a number of issues will be discussed at thatmeeting, including the current concern over the gulf cornpremiums.    He defended the USDA differentials, saying that these pricemargins reflect an average of prices throughout the year andthat seasonal factors will normally cause prices to increase ordecrease.    The USDA official also said that only those counties thatuse the Gulf to price grain are being currently affected by thehigh barge freight tariffs and increased gulf prices.    When asked if the USDA emergency storage program whichallows grain to be stored in barges was taking up barge spaceand accounting for the higher freight rates, Sindt discountedthe idea.    He said USDA has grain left in only about 250 barges andthat, under provisions of the program, these all have to beemptied by the end of March. Reuter
REGENCY CRUISES <SHIP> SELLS SHIP INTEREST Regency Cruises Inc said it agreed tosell a 40 pct interest in the corporation that owns the M/VRegent Sea cruise ship for 2.1 mln dlrs to MonmouthInternational SA, which owns the other 60 pct.    The company said it also extended a 1.7 mln dlr securedloan to Monmouth to finance completion of the renovation ofanother vessel, the M/V Regent Star, which is scheduled tobegin operating in late June.    Regency Cruises, which operates both ships, received afive-year extension, to November 1995, to the Regent Sea'soriginal charter agreement, it said. It also received areduction, to 600,000 dlrs from 1.6 mln dlrs, of its totalcharter guarantee for the Regent Sea and Regent Star.    Regency also reported 1986 earnings of 5,695,000 dlrs or 37cts a share on revenues of 40.9 mln dlrs. It began operationsin November 1985.    In addition, the company said its bank, Irving Bank Corp<V>, agreed to waive a one mln dlr counter guarantee for thebank to provide a 2.6 mln dlrs guarantee for Regency's FederalMaritime Commission bond.    The company said after April 3 the exercise price of itswarrants will return to two dlrs until they expire April 21.The price had been reduced to 1.50 dlrs for the three weeksending April 3. Reuter
FREIGHT, INSURANCE PROPOSED FOR CCC SALES - USDA the U.S. Agriculture Department isproposing to permit coverage of freight cost and marine and warrisk insurance for sales  of all agricultural commodities soldon credit terms under the Commodity Credit Corporation's, CCC,credit guarantee programs.    The proposal only applies to commodities that are sold byexporters on a cost and freight, C and F, or cost, insuranceand freight, CIF, basis, since these costs would be included inthe exporter's sale price to the foreign buyer, it said.    Under current programs, freight costs can be covered onlyfor export sales of U.S. breeding animals.    It asked for comments on the proposal by April 20. Reuter
STRIKE THREAT, LOWER TRAFFIC MAR SEAWAY OPENING The St. Lawrence Seaway, setto reopen March 31 after the winter, faces another tough yearbecause of depressed traffic levels and the possibility of thefirst strike in 20 years on the Great Lakes, seaway officialssaid.    Depressed grain exports, rising costs, and competing modesof transportation are all expected to result in only a marginalincrease over last year's traffic levels -- and revenues -- onthe 2,300 mile waterway, officials said.    In 1986, a season that ran from April 3 to December 27, theseaway moved 37.6 mln metric tons of freight between Montrealand Lake Ontario and 41.6 mln tons on the Welland Canal,linking Lake Erie and Lake Ontario.    By comparison, in 1985 about 37 mln tons of cargo traveledthrough the Montreal-Lake Ontario section and 42 mln throughthe eight-lock canal.    The waterway is expected to lose 9-10 mln Canadian dlrsthis year, about the same as the estimated deficit for fiscal1986-87 ending March 31, said William Blair, an executivemember of Canada's St Lawrence Seaway Authority.    The seaway moves about one-half of Canada's exported grain.Those exports of the single most important commodity carried onthe waterway have been depressed by world surpluses.    The Seafarers' International Union, which represents about2,300 workers on the Great Lakes and the ocean coasts, has saidit will likely go on strike this spring to protest employers'demands for wage rollbacks and other concessions.    "It's 99.9 pct (certain)--I guarantee you a strike," RomanGralewicz, head of the Seafarers' Canadian branch, has said.    The Canadian government has called in a labor conciliatorto try to hammer out a contract agreement between the twosides. The seaway authority said a walkout tying up ships onthe Great Lakes would badly hurt traffic.    "We haven't had a strike on the seaway for years...aprolonged strike would have a disasterous effect," SeawayAuthority spokeswoman Gay Hemsley said.    "These are the heaviest contract talks in the history of theSt Lawrence Seaway," George Miller, vice-president of theCanadian Lake Carriers Association, an association of majorCanadian shipping companies, said recently.    The workers' current contract expires May 31. Theassociation said it is asking for a five per cent cut in wagesfor the next three years, reduced crew levels and the power torestructure crew dispatching.    The association said its members recorded about a 6 mln dlrs(U.S.) loss in each of 1985 and 1986 due to lower traffic andfreight rates and increasing competition. The seaway said 1985was its worst year in two decades.    Hemsley said the seaway authority plans to raise tolls onthe Welland Canal by eight pct this year, compared to lastyear's 15 pct rise, while maintaining a freeze on tollsthroughout the rest of the waterway.    Canada is responsible for 13 of the seaway's 15 locks andabout 85 pct of its revenues and maintenance costs.    "We may see and hope for a steady upward climb...but wewon't see a major increase for a number of years," Hemsley said.    A Canada-U.S. delegation to promote the seaway to shippersin Western Europe should result in some increased traffic thisseason but the full benefits won't be felt for several years,Blair said. Reuter
IRAN SAYS IT INTENDS NO THREAT TO GULF SHIPPING Iran said reports that it intended tothreaten shipping in the Gulf were baseless, and warned theU.S. And other countries not to interfere in the region.    Tehran radio, monitored by the BBC, quoted a ForeignMinistry spokesman as saying any attempt at interference wouldbe met by "a strong response from Iran and other Moslems in theworld."     U.S. Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger, in remarksapparently unrelated to the broadcast, said the U.S. Would dowhatever was necessary to keep shipping lanes open in the faceof new Iranian anti-ship missiles in the Gulf.    The U.S. State Department said two days ago Tehran had beentold of U.S. Concern that Iranian anti-ship missiles posed athreat to the free flow of oil from the Gulf.    U.S. Officials have said Iran has new Chinese-madeanti-ship "Silkworm" missiles, which pose a greater threat tomerchant ships than missiles used before.    The Iranian spokesman said the reports that Iran intendedto attack ships were "misleading propaganda."    He said Iraq's President Saddam Hussein was the main causeof tension in the Gulf and said Iran would continue to use "allits legitimate means to stem the cause of tension."    Weinberger said in a television interview in the U.S. "Weare fully prepared to do what's necessary to keep the shippinggoing and keep the freedom of navigation available in that veryvital waterway."    "We aren't going into any disclosures or discussions of whatmight happen, but we are certainly very sympathetic to andlistening carefully to any suggestions for our assistance inkeeping navigation free in that area," he said.    Weinberger said U.S warship movements in the Gulf area werenot unusual.    A U.S. Navy battle group led by the aircraft carrier KittyHawk is currently in the northern Arabian Sea.    The Iranian spokesman was quoted by Tehran radio as sayingthe U.S. Was trying to build up its military presence in theregion. REUTER
INDIA BOUGHT 24,000 TONNES OF RBD OLEIN AT TENDER The Indian State Trading Corporation(STC) bought four cargoes of rbd palm olein totalling 24,000tonnes at its vegetable oil import tender last week, traderssaid. Market reports on Friday said the STC had booked twocargoes.    The business comprised three 6,000 tonne cargoes for Juneat 346 dlrs and 6,000 tonnes for July at 340 dlrs per tonnecif.    It also secured a 20,000 tonne cargo of optional originrapeseed oil for May 15/Jun 15 shipment at 321 dlrs cif. REUTER
IRAN SAYS IT INTENDS NO THREAT TO GULF SHIPPING Iran said reports that it intended tothreaten shipping in the Gulf were baseless, and warned theU.S. And other countries not to interfere in the region.    Tehran radio, monitored by the BBC, quoted a ForeignMinistry spokesman as saying any attempt at interference wouldbe met by "a strong response from Iran and other Moslems in theworld."     U.S. Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger, in remarksapparently unrelated to the broadcast, said the U.S. Would dowhatever was necessary to keep shipping lanes open in the faceof new Iranian anti-ship missiles in the Gulf.    The U.S. State Department said two days ago Tehran had beentold of U.S. Concern that Iranian anti-ship missiles posed athreat to the free flow of oil from the Gulf.    U.S. Officials have said Iran has new Chinese-madeanti-ship "Silkworm" missiles, which pose a greater threat tomerchant ships than missiles used before.    The Iranian spokesman said the reports that Iran intendedto attack ships were "misleading propaganda."    He said Iraq's President Saddam Hussein was the main causeof tension in the Gulf and said Iran would continue to use "allits legitimate means to stem the cause of tension."    Weinberger said in a television interview in the U.S. "Weare fully prepared to do what's necessary to keep the shippinggoing and keep the freedom of navigation available in that veryvital waterway."    "We aren't going into any disclosures or discussions of whatmight happen, but we are certainly very sympathetic to andlistening carefully to any suggestions for our assistance inkeeping navigation free in that area," he said.    Weinberger said U.S warship movements in the Gulf area werenot unusual.    A U.S. Navy battle group led by the aircraft carrier KittyHawk is currently in the northern Arabian Sea.    The Iranian spokesman was quoted by Tehran radio as sayingthe U.S. Was trying to build up its military presence in theregion. REUTER
IRANIAN TANKER ATTACKED OVER WEEKEND - LLOYDS The Iranian steam tanker Avaj, 316,379tonnes dw, was attacked and hit at 1715 hours on March 21,Lloyds Shipping Intelligence service reported.    One person was killed. The tanker is owned by the NationalIranian Tanker Co. REUTER
CASH CRISIS HITS UGANDAN COFFEE BOARD Uganda's state-run Coffee MarketingBoard (CMB) has been suffering a cash crisis for the past twomonths due to a bottleneck in export shipments andadministrative delays in handling payments, trade sources said.    The CMB needs between 10 and 15 billion shillings (theequivalent of seven to 10 mln dlrs) to pay farmers andprocessors for coffee already delivered, but its present exportrevenue is insufficient to cover such expenditure, they said.    The board's cash crisis has serious implications for theeconomy as a whole, since coffee accounts for 95 pct ofUganda's total exports.    The CMB's financial difficulties first started in Januaryfollowing delays in rail-freighting export consignments ofcoffee to the ports of Mombasa, Dar es Salaam and Tanga.    These delays were caused by a shortage of railway wagons inUganda and bottlenecks on the ferries which transport Ugandanwagons across Lake Victoria to link up with the Kenyan andTanzanian railway systems, the sources said    Marketing Minister John Sebaana-Kizito publiclyacknowledged on February 19 that the CMB had run up arrears tolocal suppliers as a result of the shortage of transport formoving exports.    Sebaana-Kizito said at the time that the payments squeezewould be resolved in two weeks.    However, an accident to the rail ferry which plies betweenthe Ugandan lake port of Jinja and Kisumu in Kenya put it outof action between February 21 and March 15, causing freshdelays in cargo movements.    Coffee exports are especially sensitive to the disruptionof rail transport since president Yoweri Museveni has bannedtheir haulage by road in a drive to save transport costs.    Transport difficulties meant that by early February the CMBwas holding unsold coffee stocks of around 750,000 bags.    These stocks were equivalent to one quarter of Uganda'sexpected three mln 60-kilo bag 1986/87 (October-September)crop, the sources said.    According to the sources, the board's financial problemshave been aggravated by long delays in processing exportreceipts.    The coffee board was taking about eight weeks to recycleexport receipts into payments to local producers, whereasexport bills handled by local banks took half that time toprocess, they said.    The sources said the CMB's price structure had beenovertaken by Uganda's high inflation rate, unofficiallyestimated at about 200 pct, and that this was a furtherdisincentive to producers, already owed large arrears.    "The coffee pricing structure is wrong and three monthsbehind, the foreign exchange rate is unrealistic, and thesooner the so-called economic package is put in top gear, thebetter for the coffee industry and the economy as a whole," oneof the sources said.    The government is currently negotiating a package ofeconomic reforms with the World Bank and International MonetaryFund aimed at underpinning a renewed inflow of foreign aid tohelp Uganda's economic recovery after 15 years of politicalstrife. REUTER
N.Z. PORTS REOPEN, BUT FURTHER DISRUPTION LIKELY New Zealand ports reopened at 0730hrs local time (1930 GMT March 22) after being closed sinceMarch 19 because of a strike over pay claims by watersiders, aWaterside Federation spokesman said.    But industrial action by other port workers is likely tocause further disruption, Harbour Workers union secretary RossWilson told Reuters.    Wilson said his members are holding stopwork meetings thismorning to consider further stoppages over their pay claim.    The two disputes are not related.    Harbour Workers around the country went on strike for 24hours on March 16, but Wilson said any further action willoccur on a port-by-port basis. Reuter
ROTTERDAM GRAIN HANDLER SAYS PORT BALANCE ROSE Graan Elevator Mij (GEM) said itsbalance in port of grains, oilseeds and derivatives rose to70,000 tonnes on March 21 compared with 10,000 a week earlierafter arrivals of 192,000 tonnes and discharges of 132,000tonnes last week.    The balance comprised 25,000 tonnes of grains plus oilseedsand 45,000 tonnes of derivatives.    This week's estimated arrivals total 487,000 tonnes, ofwhich 107,000 are grains/oilseeds and 380,000 derivatives.    The figures cover around 95 pct of Rotterdam traffic in theproducts concerned. Reuter
U.S. PREPARED TO ESCORT KUWAITI TANKERS The United States has offered Navywarships to escort Kuwaiti oil tankers into and out of the Gulf where they could be threatened by new Iranian anti-shipmissiles, U.S. defense officials said today.    "We believe the Kuwaitis have also approached the SovietUnion about the possibility of using Soviet tankers" to shiptheir oil, one of the officials told Reuters. "But if there issuperpower protection, we would rather it come from us," theofficial said.    The officials, who asked not to be identified, said Kuwaithad asked about possible protection for a dozen vessels, mostof them oil tankers, which could be supplied by three U.S. Navyguided missile destroyers and two guided missile frigates nowin the southern part of the Gulf.    "We told them we would give them help and we are waiting tohear the Kuwaiti response to our offer," one official said.    In addition to a half dozen ships in the U.S. Navy's smallMideast Task Force near the Straits of Hormuz, the Pentagon hasmoved 18 warships -- including the Aircraft Carrier Kitty Hawk-- into the northern Indian Ocean in the past month.    White House and defense officials said today that massingof the fleet was routine and had nothing to do with theIran-Iraq war or Iran's recent stationing of Chinese-made anti-ship missiles near the mouth of the Gulf.    The land-based missiles have increased concern in Kuwaitand other Middle East countries that their oil shipments mightbe affected. Several hundred vessels have been confirmed hit inthe  Gulf by Iran and Iraq since early 1984. White Housespokesman Marlin Fitzwater told reporters today that it was inthe U.S. strategic interest to keep the free flow of oil in thegulf and through the Straits of Hormuz.    But he said U.S. ships in the region were on routinemaneuvers.    Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger on Sunday declined todiscuss specifics, but said the United States would do whateverwas necessary to keep the Gulf shipping open in the face of newIranian anti-ship missiles in the region.    "We are fully prepared to do what's necessary to keep theshipping going and keep the freedom of navigation available inthat very vital waterway of the world," he said on NBCtelevision's "Meet the Press."    The State Department said Friday Iran has been informedabout U.S. concern over the threat to oil shipments in theGulf. The communciation was sent through Switzerland, whichrepresents American interests in Iran.     Iran on Sunday denied as baseless reports that it intendedto threaten shipping in the gulf and warned the United Statesthat any interference in the region would meet a strongresponse from Tehran, Tehran Radio said.    An Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman, quoted in abroadcast monitored by the BBC in London, said reports thatIran intends to threaten shipping in the Gulf were baseless.    "In conjunction with this misleading propaganda, America hasalready paved the ground to achieve its expansionist andhegemonistic intentions, aiming to build up its militarypresence in the region," he was quoted as saying. Reuter
IRAQ REPORTS ATTACKS ON SUPERTANKER, OIL TARGETS Iraq said today its warplnes hadattacked a supertanker and four Iranian oil sites and vowed tokeep up such raids until the Gulf war ends.    The surprise escalation of attacks on oil installationsbroke more than a month-long lull in Iraqi air force action.    It also followed celebrations yesterday of what Baghdadhailed as Iran's failure to achieve victory during the Iranianyear which ended on Saturday.    A high command communique said warplanes hit the westernjetty at Iran's Kharg island oil terminal in the afternoon andstruck a supertanker nearby at the same time.    The Kharg terminal, attacked about 135 times since August1985, was last raided in January.    The communique did not identify the supertanker, but saidcolumns of smoke were seen billowing from it.    In London, Lloyds insurance said the 162,046-ton Iraniantanker Avaj was hit on Saturday, when Iraq reported an earlierGulf attack.    But there has been no independent confirmation of today'ssupertanker attack nor of other raids on shipping reported byBaghdad in the past 24 hours.    The last confirmed Iraqi attack took place on March eight,when the Iranian tanker Khark-5 was hit south of Kharg.    Iraqi warplanes also struck Iran's offshore oilfields atNowruz, Cyrus and Ardeshir in northern gulf, some 80 km (50miles) west of Kharg island, today's communique said.    The three oilfields have been raided several times in thepast three years. Oil sources said they were not cruciallyimportant to Iran's oil export trade.    A second high command communique today said Iraqi warplanesflew 94 sorties against Iranan targets and positions at the warfront.    It also reported a clash between Iraqi naval units andseveral Iranian boats carrying men to attack an Iraqi oilterminal at the northen tip of the Gulf.    Two Iranian boats wer destroyed and sunk with theiroccupants and the others fled, it said. Reuter
IRAQ REPORTS ATTACKS ON SUPERTANKER, OIL TARGETS Iraq said its warplanes had attacked asupertanker and four Iranian oil sites and vowed to keep upsuch raids until the Gulf war ends.    The surprise escalation of attacks on oil installationsbroke more than a month-long lull in Iraqi air force action.    It also followed celebrations yesterday of what Baghdadhailed as Iran's failure to achieve victory during the Iranianyear which ended on Saturday.    A high command communique said warplanes hit the westernjetty at Iran's Kharg island oil terminal in the afternoon andstruck a supertanker nearby at the same time.    The Kharg terminal, attacked about 135 times since August1985, was last raided in January.    The communique did not identify the supertanker, but saidcolumns of smoke were seen billowing from it.    In London, Lloyds insurance said the 162,046-ton Iraniantanker Avaj was hit on Saturday, when Iraq reported an earlierGulf attack.    But there has been no independent confirmation of today'ssupertanker attack nor of other raids on shipping reported byBaghdad in the past 24 hours.    The last confirmed Iraqi attack took place on March 8, whenthe Iranian tanker Khark-5 was hit south of Kharg.    Iraqi warplanes also struck Iran's offshore oilfields atNowruz, Cyrus and Ardeshir in northern gulf, some 80 km (50miles) west of Kharg island, today's communique said. Reuter
U.S. OFFERS TO ESCORT KUWAITI TANKERS IN GULF The U.S. Has offered warships toescort Kuwaiti tankers in the Gulf past Iranian anti-shipmissile batteries, Defence Department officials said.    The officials told Reuters yesterday the offer was madelast week by Navy Admiral William Crowe, chairman of thePentagon Joint Chiefs of Staff, during a Middle East visit.    Reagan administration officials said later that Washingtondid not seek military confrontation with Tehran, but would notlet Iran use Chinese-made "Silkworm" anti-ship missiles, capableof covering the narrow entrance to the Gulf, to choke oilshipments to the West.    Defence officials said Kuwait had asked if protection forup to a dozen vessels, most of them tankers, could be providedby three U.S. Navy destroyers and two frigates now in thesouthern Gulf and the Gulf of Oman.    In addition to a half dozen ships in the U.S. Navy's smallMideast Task Force near the Straits of Hormuz, the Pentagon hasmoved 18 warships, including the aircraft carrier Kitty Hawk,into the northern Arabian Sea in the past month.    White House and defence officials said that massing thefleet was routine and had nothing to do with the Iran-Iraq waror Iran's stationing of missiles near the mouth of the Gulf.    The State Department said on Friday that Iran has been toldabout U.S. Concern over the threat to oil shipments in theGulf. The communication was sent through Switzerland, whichrepresents U.S. Interests in Iran.    Iran denied as baseless reports that it intended tothreaten shipping in the Gulf and said any U.S. Interference inthe region would meet a strong response, Tehran Radio said onSunday.    Several hundred vessels have been confirmed hit in the Gulfby Iran and Iraq since early 1984 in the so-called tanker war,an offshoot of their 6-1/2-year-old ground conflict. REUTER
IRAN SAID TO TEST FIRE SILKWORM MISSILE IN HORMUZ Iran has test-fired its newly acquiredSilkworm anti-shipping missile in the Strait of Hormuz and hasset up at least two land-based launching sites in the area, aBritish naval source in the Gulf said.    The source, who declined to be identified, said Iran hadfired the Chinese-made missile at a hulk off its southern Gulfnaval port of Bandar Abbas and scored a hit.    "These missiles pack a fairly big punch," he told Reuters."There is no doubt they could be used to target (shipping)across the Strait of Hormuz."    Tension in the Gulf has risen since U.S. Officials lastweek broke the news that Iran had acquired the Silkwormmissiles.    The U.S. Has said it will not allow Iran to use themissiles to choke off oil shipments and has offered itswarships to escort Kuwaiti tankers past the missile batteries.    But Tehran denied last Sunday it intended to threaten Gulfshipping and warned the U.S. Any interference in the regionwould meet a strong response.    The British naval source said the Silkworms were in placeat at least two sites around the Strait of Hormuz, but wouldnot give the exact location. REUTER
IRAN SAID TO TEST FIRE SILKWORM MISSILE IN HORMUZ Iran has test-fired its newly acquiredSilkworm anti-shipping missile in the Strait of Hormuz and hasset up at least two land-based launching sites in the area, aBritish naval source in the Gulf said.    The source, who declined to be identified, said Iran hadfired the Chinese-made missile at a hulk off its southern Gulfnaval port of Bandar Abbas and scored a hit.    "These missiles pack a fairly big punch," he told Reuters."There is no doubt they could be used to target (shipping)across the Strait of Hormuz." Reuter
HONDURAS SEEKS PL480 VESSELS FOR TALLOW DELIVERY Honduras will tender March 26 underPL480 for U.S. and non-U.S. flag vessels to import 1,500 tonnesof tallow in bulk, an agent for the country said.    The agent said delivery includes laydays of April 5-15.    Offers are due by 1200 hrs EST, March 26, and will remainvalid until the close of business the following day, the agentsaid. Reuter
IRAN WARNS U.S. NOT TO INTERVENE IN THE GULF The speaker of the Iranian Parliament,Hojatoleslam Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, warned the U.S. Not tointervene in the Gulf, a day after Washington said its warshipswere available to escort Kuwaiti tankers through the waterway.    "If U.S. Intervention occurs, the entire world will becomeinsecure for the Americans and the events of Lebanon could berepeated for the Americans everywhere," he said.    U.S. Defence officials disclosed in Washington yesterdaythat the U.S. Navy, which has about 24 warships in or near theGulf, was prepared to escort Kuwaiti tankers, regular targetsfor Iranian attacks in an offshoot of its war with Iraq.    Rafsanjani, in an interview reported by the Iranian newsagency IRNA, also commented on earlier U.S. Disclosures thatIran had erected sites for new Chinese-made Silkwormanti-shipping missiles at the Strait of Hormuz.    The agency, received in London, quoted him as saying thatIran did not need missiles to close the strait, 24 miles wideat its narrowest, because "we can close it with artillery only."    He added "We have the longest coasts and the highestinterest here and the small southern (Gulf) states have alesser interest compared with us and therefore it is naturalfor us to protect the security of the Strait of Hormuz morethan others." REUTER
MOORE-MCCORMACK <MMR> COMPLETES UNIT SALE Moore McCormack Resources Incsaid it has completed the previously-announced sale of itsInterlake Steamship Co and Moore McCormack Bulk Transport IncGreat Lakes and ocean bulk shipping units to James R. Barker.    The company said president Paul Tregurtha has succeededBarker as chairman and chief executive officer of MooreMcCormack. Reuter
MOSCOW SUPPORTS FREE GULF NAVIGATION, ENVOY SAYS The Soviet Union supports the freedomof navigation in the Gulf and does not support any act whichwould cause the deterioration of the situation in the region,its ambassador to Kuwait, Ernest Zverev, told the Kuwaiti newsagency KUNA.    "We support the freedom of navigation in the Arabian Gulfand the Strait of Hormuz," the agency quoted Zverev as saying.    KUNA also said the envoy had discussed the deployment ofIranian missiles near the Strait of Hormuz with Kuwaiti ForeignUndersecretary Suliman Majed al-Shaheen.    A British naval source in the Gulf said today Iran hadtest-fired its new Silkworm missiles and set up launching sitesin the area.    The tests had been successful and the missiles could beused against shipping in the strait, the source added.    But Iranian Parliamentary Speaker Hojatoleslam AkbarHashemi Rafsanjani said Iran did not need missiles to close thestrait because "we can close it with artillery only."    The U.S. Has said it will not allow Iran to use missiles tochoke off oil shipments and offered its warships to escortKuwaiti tankers past the missile batteries in the strait. REUTER
STANDARD CHARTERED BOOSTED BAD-DEBT PROVISIONS Standard Chartered Plc <STCH.L>, facedwith a recession in the key Singapore and Malaysian markets andan ongoing depression in the shipping industry, boosted itsbad-debt provisions in 1986, chairman Lord Barber said.    Barber said in a statement on the bank's 1986 results thatbad and doubtful debt provisions, both general and specific,stood at 545.6 mln stg against 416.6 mln at end-1985.    Bank figures showed the increase was almost exclusively inthe specific bad risk provision, which qualifies for U.K. Taxbreaks. New specific provisions rose by 111.5 mln stg while71.2 mln stg were reallocated from the general risk provision.    In all, a 184.2 mln stg charge was made against profits for1986, compared with a 100.7 mln stg charge in 1985. Totalpre-tax profits fell to 254 mln after 268 mln in 1985.    "The continuing serious recessionary conditions in Singaporeand Malaysia and the depressed condition of the shippingindustry made it necessary to provide heavily against bad anddoubtful debs arising from loans in the Asia Pacific region, ontop of the normal level of provisioning," Barber said.    He said, "the decision was also taken to build up loan lossreeserves by making a sizeable increase in the charges forgeneral provisions for commercial and cross border risks."    Barber said due to bad-debt provisioning, the Asia Pacificregion made "a negligible contribution to pre-tax profits."    He said the profits contribution from the U.K. Businesseswas "well maintained, although the reported result was affectedby cross border debt provisioning," while Californian subsidiaryUnion Bank "showed continued growth."    "Tropical Africa, Middle East and South Asia all turned inexcellent performances and the revival in Europe continued," hesaid.    Barber said the group, which succesfully fought off atakeover bid by Lloyds Bank <LLOY.L> last year, strengthenedits capital resources during that year to just over threebillion stg, while total assets increased to 32.2 billion.    Capital adequacy ratios remained strong, with the primarycapital ratio standing at 7.5 pct at end 1986, he said. Reuter
BRAZILIAN SEAMEN SAY 14,000 NOW BACK AT WORK About 14,000 of Brazil's 40,000seamen are now back at work after pay accords with 21 shippingcompanies but the rest are still on strike, a spokesman atstrike headquarters said today.    The seamen began a national stoppage on February 27.    The spokesman, talking by telephone from Rio de Janeiro,said 126 ships were strike-bound.    He added that because of resignations by many seamen therewere scarcely any crews left on 38 of these ships.    The seamen have settled in general for pay rises of 120 pctwith the 21 companies. Talks with the shipowners' associationSyndarma have been deadlocked over overtime.    While exports have been delayed by the strike, exporterssay the problems have been manageable.    "It hasn't been critical by any means," said a coffee traderin Santos, who noted that coffee was still moving on foreignships.    Economic analysts added, however, that any delay to exportsserved to aggravate Brazil's balance of payments crisis, whichlast month prompted the government to suspend interest paymentson 68 billion dlrs of commercial debt. Reuter
BRAZIL SEAMEN SAY STRIKE NEAR END About half of Brazil's 40,000 seamenhave returned to work after accords with 22 companies, and thenational strike which began on February 27 looks close toending, a union spokesman said.    The spokesman, speaking from strike headquarters in Rio deJaneiro, estimated that 80 ships were strike-bound.    The seamen have settled for 120 pct pay increases with theindividual companies but are still discussing the issue ofovertime payments with the shipowners' association, Syndarma. REUTER
IRAN SAYS HAS BETTER WEAPONS THAN SILKWORM Iranian Prime Minister Mir-HosseinMousavi said Iran had "more effective" missiles at its disposalthan the shore-to-sea missiles which had provoked U.S. Concern,Tehran Radio reported.    A U.S. State Department spokesman said last week Iran hadacquired Chinese-made Silkworm missiles which posed a greaterthreat to shipping in the Gulf than the weapons previouslyused.    Tehran Radio, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corp,quoted Mousavi as saying that Tehran officially announced afterits forces overran southern Iraq's Faw peninsula in Februarylast year that it had shore-to-sea missiles.    "The fact that the Americans, after so much delay, are nowthinking of expressing their concern with panic is becauseReagan needs this sensation now," said Mousavi, speaking after acabinet meeting in Tehran.    "We also announce today that these missiles are not thelimit of our war capabilities in the Gulf," he added.    Mousavi said the security of the Gulf region had nothing todo with the U.S. But Iran would resort to any action to defendthe Gulf, "even those actions which are not thought probable byWesterners." Reuter
ARGENTINE PORT WORKERS TAKE INDUSTRIAL ACTION Argentine port workers began anindefinite protest against safety conditions at the port ofBuenos Aires, stopping work for one hour per shift, a pressspokesman said.    He said three port workers had died over the last month inaccidents. He said the decision to take action was made after aport worker died yesterday after being electrocuted. Reuter
INDIA REPORTED BUYING TWO WHITE SUGAR CARGOES India is reported to have bought twowhite sugar cargoes for April/May shipment at its tender todaynear 227 dlrs a tonne cost and freight and could be seeking athird cargo, traders said.    A British operator is believed to have sold one of thecargoes, while an Austrian concern is thought to have featuredin the second cargo sale, they said. Reuter
LIBERIAN ORE CARRIER IN COLLISION IN RIVER ELBE The Liberian motor bulk carrier, TraveOre, 106,490 dwt, loaded with ore, and the 2,852 dwt WestGerman motor vessel Christa, collided late last night on theRiver Elbe near buoy 129, Lloyds Shipping Intelligence said.    The Trave Ore proceeded by its own means to Hamburg. TheChrista was taken in tow with a damaged bow.    The Liberian vessel was concluding a trip from SevenIslands to Hamburg. Reuter
BRAZILIAN LABOUR UNREST SPREADS, MANY BANKS SHUT Brazil's labour unrest is spreading,with many banks, universities and government statisticaloffices on strike and more pay disputes looming.    Bankworkers' leaders said that a national strike launchedyesterday to press for a 100 pct immediate pay rise and monthlysalary adjustments had the support of most of the 700,000workforce.    The strike today closed the stock exchanges of Sao Pauloand Rio de Janeiro.    For the government the one positive development on thelabour front was the gradual return to work of the nation's40,000 seamen, who began a national strike on February 27.    A union spokesman in Rio de Janeiro told Reuters about halfthe seamen had returned to work after accords with 22 companiesand that the strike looked close to an end.    Otherwise the labour scene looked bleak, with the bankstrike posing the most serious problems for Brazil'scrisis-laden economy.    "If this goes on for more than a few days it will have aserious effect because normal financial operations will grindto a halt," said a western diplomat in Sao Paulo.    Today Brazil's 50,000 university teachers in the 42 federaluniversities launched a national strike, with a broad politicaldemand as well as a pay claim.    David Fleischer, head of the political science departmentin Brasilia university, told Reuters the National Associationof Higher Education Teachers wanted a full congressionalinquiry into what had happened to government education funds.    He said the universities were strapped for cash and thatthe association suspected the junior partner in the coalitiongovernment, the Liberal Front Party, PFL, of using educationfunds for projects which had helped their candidates inelections. The PFL holds the Education Ministry.    Hardly any sectors of the economy are proving immune to thecurrent labour unrest, caused by the return of high inflation,officially pegged at 33 pct for January-February.    Other possible strikes looming include stoppages by oilindustry workers and social security workers. Reuter
NORMAL WORK RESUMES AT NEW ZEALAND PORTS Normal work has resumed at NewZealand ports as negotiations between harbour board workers andemployers continue.    Wellington Harbour Board Workers' Union secretary RossWilson told reporters talks late yesterday ended with agreementto take unresolved issues before an industrial conciliator.    Wilson said the only remaining issue is the length of theunion award. The dispute originally was about wage rates andthe form of industry negotiations.    Cook Strait ferry sailings resumed after MarlboroughHarbour Board workers returned to work this morning, endingtheir industrial action a day early.    The Waterside Workers' Federation, which struck for most oflast week and held more than one mln tonnes of shipping inports, meets on Monday and Tuesday in conciliation with theWaterfront Employers' Association.    Union Secretary Sam Jennings said: "We've got two days oftalks. If it's not all cleaned up by then ... I don't know whatwill happen." Reuter
GULF ESCORTS STILL UNDER DISCUSSION - WEINBERGER No action has been taken yeton the Reagan Adminstration's offer to escort Kuwaiti oiltankers through the Gulf, but the issue is being discussed,U.S. Secretary of Defence Caspar Weinberger said.    The offer was made to Kuwait in light of Iran's deploymentof Chinese-built missiles to cover the entrance to the Gulf.    Weinberger told reporters prior to a speech at TexasChristian University that he did not think Iran and the UnitedStates were moving towards a potential conflict, adding thatthe Straits of Hormuz at the mouth of the Gulf were still "freewater." REUTER
GULF ESCORTS STILL UNDER DISCUSSION - WEINBERGER No action has been taken yeton the Reagan Adminstration's offer to escort Kuwaiti oiltankers through the Gulf, but the issue is being discussed,U.S. Secretary of Defence Caspar Weinberger said.    The offer was made to Kuwait in light of Iran's deploymentof Chinese-built missiles to cover the entrance to the Gulf.    Weinberger told reporters prior to a speech at TexasChristian University that he did not think Iran and the UnitedStates were moving towards a potential conflict, adding thatthe Straits of Hormuz at the mouth of the Gulf were still "freewater." REUTER
ST LAWRENCE SEAWAY OPENING STILL MARCH 31 The St Lawrence Seaway between LakeOntario and Montreal is still scheduled to open for theshipping season on March 31, a Seaway official said.    The Great Lakes could have been open for traffic earlierthis month due to the mild Winter, but scheduled repairs to theWelland Canal joining Lake Erie with Lake Ontario will keepthat section closed until the April 1 opening, she said.    One lock system in the four-lock Soo Canal joining LakeSuperior with Huron was opened on the morning of March 22, butonly three commercial vessels have been locked through so far,according to an U.S. Army Corps of Engineers official.    The Soo Canal is currently only open for daylight vesselmovement, with 24 hour movement allowed beginning March 29, sheadded. Reuter
REPORT EXPECTS SHARP DROP IN WORLD IRON IMPORTS World seaborne iron ore imports willfall sharply by the year 2000 with declining imports to the ECand Japan only partially offset by increased demand from SouthEast Asia, a report by Ocean Shipping Consultants said.    The report predicts annual world seaborne iron ore importsof 267.7 mln tonnes by 2000 versus 312.4 mln tonnes in 1985.    It estimates that total bulk shipping demand from the ironore sector will fall by almost 10 pct, or 200 billion tonnemiles, with shipping demand associated with the coking tradedown about 17 pct or 130 billion tonne miles.    The report sees EC imports falling to 91.7 mln tonnes in2000 from 123.6 mln in 1985 with Japanese imports falling to 89mln from 124.6 mln tonnes. Imports to South East Asia are seenrising to 58.6 mln from 32.6 mln tonnes in 1985.    It predicts that EC steel production will fall to 109 mlntonnes in 2000 from 135.7 mln in 1985 with Japanese productionfalling to 92 mln from 105.3 mln.    South Korea and Taiwan are expected to double their outputto 40 mln tonnes with Chinese production increasing by 25 mlntonnes to 80 mln, it added. Reuter
UNITED STATES LINES LAYS OFF FAR EAST STAFF <United States Lines Inc> has laidoff 260 employees, almost its entire Far East staff, its HongKong office general manager Elliott Burnside told Reuters.    He also said calls by two of its container ships to Busan,South Korea and Kaohsiung, Taiwan, had been cancelled.    He declined comment on local press reports that U.S. Linesplanned to suspend operations because of failure to restructureits 1.27 billion U.S. Dlr debt, but said the firm would make anannouncement later today.    U.S. Lines filed for protection from its creditors underChapter Eleven of the U.S. Federal law last November.    The English-language South China Morning Post said U.S.Lines decided yesterday to sell its two remaining transpacificservice fleets and assets and those of its U.S.-South Americaoperation.    It quoted a letter by company's chief executive CharlesHiltzheimer that said the ships and assets will be bought byrival U.S. Shipping companies, subject to approval by theirboards.    U.S. Lines' Far East operations comprise offices in HongKong, Singapore, Manila, Busan, Seoul, Tokyo, Yokohama, Kobeand Osaka, Burnside said. REUTER
STORMY WEATHER TO DISRUPT NORTH SEA SHIPPING Very stormy weather islikely in the North Sea through Saturday, disrupting shippingin the region, private forecaster Accu-Weather Inc said.    Rain will accompany the strong winds that are expected overthe North Sea today into tonight. Saturday will also be verywindy and cooler with frequent showers.    Winds today will be southwest at 30 to 60 mph, but willbecome west to northwest tonight and Saturday at 25 to 50 mph.    Waves will build to 20 to 30 feet today and tonight andcontinue Saturday. Wind and waves will not diminish until latein the weekend. Reuter
ABIDJAN PORT ACTIVITY RISES The tonnage of goods passing throughIvory Coast's main port of Abidjan rose 2.3 pct last year,according to the Ivorian Chamber of Commerce.    Its monthly report said 9.47 mln tonnes of goods passedthrough the port last year compared with 9.26 mln the yearbefore. Exports fell to 3.75 mln from 3.89 mln tonnes whileimports rose to 5.72 mln from 5.37 mln. Reuter
PAPANDREOU SAYS GREEKS READY FOR AGGRESSORS Greek Prime Minister Andreas Papandreousaid today that the Greek armed froces were ready to tackle anyaggressors following the sailing of a Turkish research vesseland warships towards disputed waters in the Aegean Sea.    Papandreou told an emergency cabinet meeting in Athens "themilitary readiness of our country is able now to give a veryhard lesson if our neighbours (Turkey) were to carry outmilitary actions."    He said the activities of the research vessel could beaimed at partitioning the Aegean.    "The air force, navy and army are in a state of alert,"General Guven Ergenc, Secretary General of the Turkish GeneralStaff, told a news conference.    He said the Turkish research ship Sismik 1, escorted by anunspecified number of warships, would sail into disputed watersin the Aegean Sea tomorrow morning.    Ergenc told Reuters later that all leave had been cancelledfor members of the armed forces in the Aegean coast area.    The Turkish government said yesterday it had licensed thestate-owned Turkish Petroleum Corp to explore for oil ininternational waters around three Greek islands off Turkey.     Greece and Turkey have long-standing disputes over areasof the Aegean and the presence of Turkish troops in Cyprus.    The latest row erupted when the Greek government said lastmonth that it was taking control of a Canadian-led consortiumwhich was already producing oil off the Greek island of Thassosand would drill in the same area after the takeover.    Ergenc told the news conference the alert followed agovernment decision that Turkey should protect its interests"because of measures Greece has been taking in the Aegean inviolation of international agreements."    Asked how Turkey would react if Greece attacked any of thevessels, he said "If there is an attack, it is clear what has tobe done. An attack on a warship is a cause for war." But headded "We are not in a state of war. The measures taken by themilitary are directed towards protecting our rights."    Greece said yesterday it would defend its national rightsin the Aegean and urged Turkey to accept reference of thedispute to the International Court of Justice in The Hague.    Turkish Foreign Ministry spokesman Yalim Eralp toldreporters today this was unacceptable because of preconditionsAthens had attached.    In Athens, Greek Prime Minister Papandreou said that if theTurkish vessel Sismik 1 began research operations "we willhinder it, of course not with words, as it cannot be stoppedwith words."    Greek newspapers said the armed forces were on alert andnavy ships had gone to the Aegean. But government spokesmanYannis Roubatis did not confirm the move, saying only "The Greekfleet is not at its naval base."    Papandreou said that a map issued in Turkey showed 95 pctof the areas proposed for research were on the Greekcontinental shelf.    Papandreou told the U.S. And NATO that if they had a partin orchestrating the present crisis in order to force Greece tonegotiate with Turkey, the Greek government would not acceptit.    Papandreou has maintained in the past that he will notnegotiate with Ankara until Turkey recognises Greek rights inthe Aegean and withdraws its troops from Cyprus.    He said that in the case of war with Turkey it would not bepossible for Greece to discuss the future of American militarybases here. Asked by reporters if he would close the U.S. Basesin Greece in the event of war, Papandreou replied "Obviously,and perhaps even before the war." REUTER
NATO HOLDS EMERGENCY MEETING ON AEGEAN CRISIS NATO ambassadors met in emergencysession today to discuss tension between members Greece andTurkey over a disputed area of the Aegean Sea on the WesternAlliance's southern flank, Greek diplomatic sources said.    They said no information had yet emerged from the meeting,called after statements from both countries that they wereprepared to back rival oil exploration teams with warships.    General Guven Ergenc, Secretary General of the TurkishGeneral Staff, said today the Turkish research ship Sismik 1,escorted by an unspecified number of warships, would sail intodisputed waters in the Aegean Sea tomorrow morning.    Greek Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou said "The militaryreadiness of our country is able now to give a very hard lessonif our neighbours (Turkey) were to carry out military actions."    The row erupted when the Greek government said last monththat it was taking control of a Canadian-led consortium whichwas already producing oil off the Greek island of Thassos andwould drill in the same area after the takeover. REUTER
NATO CALLS ON GREECE AND TURKEY TO AVOID FORCE Greece and Turkey's NATO allies todaycalled on both countries to avoid any action that couldaggravate an explosive situation in the Aegean and "avoidrecourse to force at all costs."    After an emergency meeting of NATO ambassadors, a statementwas issued saying "the present situation damages the interestsof Greece and Turkey, and of the Alliance as a whole."    Secretary-General Lord Carrington also offered himself as amediator in the dispute on the Western Alliance's southernflank.    The meeting was called after reports that warships of bothcountries were sailing towards a disputed oil exploration zoneof the Aegean.    The statement said the tensions in the area had reached aserious level and called on both countries to begin immediatediscussions. "Any intensification would make things worse," itadded.    No attempt was made at the meeting to resolve the complexdispute which was aimed at damage-limitation. Carrington said,"I am of course anxious to help in any way I can, provided thatboth Greece and Turkey, and the other allies, wish me to do so." REUTER
BIFFEX LOOKING TO JOIN NEW FUTURES EXCHANGE The Baltic International Freight FuturesExchange (BIFFEX) said it agreed to pursue negotiations withother futures markets on the Baltic Exchange with a view tomerging into a new futures exchange.    Legal advisers have already been instructed to implementamalgamation of the London Potato Futures Association, the SoyaBean Meal Futures Exchange and the London Meat FuturesExchange.    The London Grain Futures Market has also discussed mergingwith the other markets.    The aim of the merger is to seek Recognised InvestmentExchange status as required by the 1986 Financial Services Act. Reuter
MCLEAN'S <MII> U.S. LINES SETS SALE OF ASSETS McLean Industries Inc said itstwo shipping subsidiaries -- UNITED States Lines Inc and UnitedStates Lines (S.A.) Inc -- have agreed in principle to disposeof substantially all their remaining operating shipping assets.    The units have been operating under protection of Chapter11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code since last November.    McLean said U.S. Lines has a letter of intent with CSXCorp's <CSX> Sea-Land Corp subsidiary to transfer assets of itsTranspacific/Hawaii/Guam Service to Sea-Land.    McLean said Sea-Land has tentatively agreed to pay 125 mlndlrs for six vessels, certain port facilities, and variousother equipment used in U.S. Lines' Transpacific service andtheree Lancer class vessels and subsidy rights owned by the twoMcLean subsidiaries.    As previously announced, U.S. Lines (S.A.) will transferits South American Service to <Crowley Maritime Corp>'sAmerican Transport Lines Inc subsidiary in return for a fixedlease payment for the four Lancer class vessels and aparticipation based on American Transport's South Americanrevenues.    McLean said the agreement also calls for Crowley to releaseU.S. Lines (S.A.) for any damages and unpaid charter hire forthree vessels leased to U.S. Lines (S.A.) by Crowley which havebeen returned to Crowley.    McLean said the minimum lease payments will be seven mlndlrs and estimated revenue participation during the first fouryears at about 16 mln dlrs. In addition, U.S. Lines (S.A.)subsidiaries in Brazil and Argentina will be sold to AmericanTransport.    The company said both agreements in principle have beenapproved by directors of the companies involved, but still needcourt, regulatory and lender approval.    McLean said it is requesting the bankruptcy court toschedule a hearing on its motion to approve the agreements,adding that the court has granted the company's request toextend for 90 days the period for the shipping companies tofile a proposed plan of reorganization.    It said the planned transactions will leave McLean with nosignificant shipping assets except 12 New York class vessels,which are not in operation and are expected to be sold.    McLean said its shipping units are returning the vesselsoperating in foreign commerce to United States ports to permitthe planned transfer to purchasers.    The company said U.S. Lines will maintain its weeklyservice from the U.S. West Coast to Hawaii and Guam until thevessels are transferred and the transaction is completed. Reuter
TURKISH SHIP IN OIL ROW HEADS FOR AEGEAN A Turkish research ship, escorted bywarships and air force planes, left for the Aegean to pressAnkara's case in an escalating row with Greece over oil rights,the semi-official Anatolian News Agency said.    The ship set off this morning from the Dardanelles port ofCanakkale with flags flying and watched by sightseers, theagency said.    Prime Minister Turgut Ozal said last night the ship wouldnot go into international waters unless Greece did the same.    "We are waiting for the first move from them," he toldTurkish Radio in London. REUTER
PAPANDREOU SHOWS "RESTRICTED OPTIMISM" OVER CRISIS Greek Prime Minister Andreas Papandreouexpressed "restricted optimism" about a crisis with Turkey overdisputed oil rights in the Aegean Sea.    Papandreou was speaking to reporters after briefingopposition political leaders on the latest developments in therow as a Turkish research ship escorted by warships and combataircraft headed for the Aegean.    He and other political leaders spoke of qualified optimismfollowing a statement by Turkish Premier Turgut Ozal last nightthat the research vessel would not enter disputed waters aspreviously annnounced unless Greek vessels did so.    The Prime Minister declined to answer reporters' questionsabout an announcement last night that Greece had asked theUnited States to suspend operations at one of the Americanmilitary bases here due to the crisis.    But Opposition leader Constantine Mitsotakis told reportershe thought the suspension would be temporary until the crisisis resolved. A U.S. Defence Department official in Washingtonsaid the station was still functioning.    Communist Party leader Harilaos Florakis said here "theclimate is calmer today."    Greek newspapers reported that the Greek army, navy and airforce had been moved to strategic Greek islands in the Aegeanand to the land border with Turkey at the Evros River.    But there was no official word on military movements apartfrom a comment by the government spokesman that the Greek navywas no longer in port.    The United States, NATO and the United Nations all calledon Greece and Turkey to exercise restraint.    Greek U.N. Representative Mihalis Dounas said in a letterto the secretary-general that the dispute was of a legal natureand could be settled in the International Court in the Hague. REUTER
TURKISH-GREEK AEGEAN TENSION ABATES Turkey"s standoff with Greece over Aegeanoil rights appeared at an end after the government said it hadbeen assured Athens would not start prospecting in disputedwaters.    A Foreign Ministry statement last night hinted Turkey wasclaiming victory. A Greek-based international consortium, NorthAegean Petroleum Co., Had given up plans to start searching foroil in international waters east of Thasos island, it said.    "In the same way it has been understood that Greece willalso not undertake oil activities outside its territorialwaters," the statement added.    An Ankara Radio report monitored in London said ForeignMinister Vahit Halefolu had called on Greece to engage indialogue over the dispute. It was impossible to resolve thedispute by crises, he was quoted as saying.    "We call on Greece to come and engage in a dialogue with us- let us find a solution as two neighbours and allies should,"he said.    The radio said Halefoglu had briefed the leaders of anumber of the country"s political parties on the latestdevelopments.    Turkey sent the survey ship Sismik 1 into the Aegeanyesterday, flanked by warships, to press its case but havingearlier said it would go into disputed waters, declared thevessel would stay in Turkish areas.    Prime Minister Turgut Ozal, in London on his way home afterheart surgery in the United States, is expected to receive anecstatic welcome from thousands of Turks when he returns today.    He was in defiant mood last night, telling Turkish radio:"We can never accept that Greece should confine us to theAnatolian continent. If there are riches under the sea, theyare for mankind."    Despite the end of the crisis, Turkish officialsacknowledged that the underlying dispute over delimiting thecontinental shelf in the Aegean remained unsolved.    Turkey alleged that the consortium"s plans would haveinfringed the 1976 Berne agreement between the two countries,which called for a moratorium on any activities until thedelimitation was agreed. Greece earlier this month declared itconsiders the accord inoperative. REUTER
TURKEY LIFTS SURVEY SHIP ESCORT AS TENSION ABATES Turkey pulled warships back from closeescort of its Sismik 1 survey ship as the threat of conflictwith Greece over oil rights in the Aegean Sea abated.    The semi-official Anatolian Agency said naval vessels endedtheir close protection of the ship as it continued work inTurkish waters but were following it at a distance.    Popular newspapers headlined what they saw as Turkishresolve and international pressure forcing Greece to pull backfrom planned exploration in disputed international waters.    "Intense United States and NATO efforts bore fruit: Greecewill stay in its national waters," said the daily Gunes. Thetop-selling Hurriyet topped its front page with: "Our resolutestand made Greece see reason."    But two newspapers, Cumhuriyet and Milliyet, noted inidentical headlines -- "Crisis Frozen" -- that the basicdisagreement over exploration rights remained unsolved.    The confrontation eased after the Turkish government saidit had been assured Athens would not begin prospecting indisputed waters. REUTER
JAPANESE SHIPYARDS TO FORM CARTEL, CUT OUTPUT Japan's ailing shipyards have wonapproval from the Fair Trade Commission to form a cartel toslash production to about half of total capacity for one year,effective April 1, industry sources said.    The approval follows an act of parliament passed last weekdesigned to help the industry regroup and shed 20 pct ofcapacity by March 31, 1988, Transport Ministry officials said.    The cartel, comprising 33 yards capable of constructingships of more than 10,000 gross tonnes, will limit newbuildingoutput to a maximum of three mln compensated gross registeredtonnes in 1987/88, the Shipbuilders Association of Japan said.    Industry sources said the 33 will seek to renew the cartelin 1988/89 in the belief demand will remain sluggish.    Last week's temporary act of parliament also allowsshipbuilders to receive favourable taxation terms plus up to 50billion yen in compensation for liabilities incurred throughjob losses and the sale of excess capacity.    Up to 30 billion yen has been allocated for purchasingredundant land and equipment from shipbuilders.    The Ministry will start drawing up its restructuringguidelines from April 1 and the yards will implement theguidelines from September, industry sources said. REUTER
B AND C REORGANISES COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS British and Commonwealth Shipping Co Plc<BCOM.L> said that it would reorganise its commercial andservice operations into a single public grouping withautonomous management.    The group has expanded rapidly in the past year through the672.5 mln stg acquisition of <Exco International Plc> and 90mln bid for <Steel Brothers Holdings Plc>.    It noted that its operations were now divided betweenfinancial services, including money broking, investmentmanagement and forfaiting, and more traditional areas such asaviation, hotels, commodity trading and office equipment.    It said that each sector had exciting prospects butrequired different methods of management and financing.    B and C planned to form a new public company to hold thecommercial operations and envisaged it operating with a capitalof between 400 mln and 600 mln stg.    It has retained Barclays de Zoete Wedd to advise on theintroduction of independent investors to subscribe foradditional capital, and believes that the proportion of equitycapital held by outside investors would not exceed 20 pct ofthe total.    The statement said that with the continued support of B andC, together with outside capital, the new grouping would emergeas a major group in its own right with the ability to takeadvantages of opportunities as they arose. However, the groupwould not seek a listing for the time being.    B and C also said that its chairman, Lord Cayzer, plannedto retire in June. The company proposed that he be appointedlife president and that current chief executive John Gunnshould take over as chairman.    B and C shares eased 11p to 459p at 1040 GMT. REUTER
GREECE SCRAPS U.S. BASE CLOSURE REQUEST Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou haswithdrawn a request to Washington to suspend operations at anAmerican army base near Athens as a Greek-Turkish row over oilrights in the Aegean eased.    A Turkish research ship which Greece had threatened totackle if it sailed into disputed waters in the Aegean Sea keptto Turkish territorial waters yesterday, avoiding a potentialclash.    Papandreou expressed qualified optimism after briefingopposition leaders on Aegean developments early yesterday.    The Greek government later withdrew Friday's request toWashington to close down its telecommunications base at NeaMakri, north of Athens, saying that the reasons which hadprompted it to make the request were no longer valid.    Under the terms of the U.S.-Greek bases accord, Greece hasthe right to ask for suspension of operations at times when itsnational interests are threatened.    The row in the Aegean erupted after Turkey said it wouldsearch for oil round three Greek islands off its coastfollowing an announcement from Greece that it planned to drilleast of Thassos island after taking control of a Canadian-ledoil consortium operating in the northern Aegean.    Turkey accused Greece of breaching the 1976 Berne Agreementunder which both sides agreed to preserve the status quo in theAegean until their continental shelf dispute was settled.Athens says it considers the accord inactive.    The Turkish Foreign Ministry said in a statement it hadreceived an assurance from Greece that it would not carry outoil activities outside its territorial waters. Greece declinedcomment on the statement.    Papandreou repeated an invitation to Turkey to take thelong-standing continental shelf dispute to the InternationalCourt of Justice at The Hague.    Conservative opposition leader Constantine Mitsotakis saidhe had urged Papandreou to accept an offer from NATO GeneralSecretary Lord Carrington to help resolve the row. REUTER
PANAMA SUGAR VESSEL SAFELY DOCKED AT GREENOCK The Panamanian motor vessel Northern 1,4,217 dwt, was safely towed into Greenock over the weekendafter having its crankshaft broken off the Scottish coastduring severe weather, Lloyds Shipping Intelligence said.    Northern 1 was loaded with 3,000 tons of sugar fromDemerara. Reuter
HAPAG ORDERS NEW CONTAINER SHIP FROM CHINA <Hapag Lloyd AG> said it ordered a newcontainer vessel from China for its Australia service.    The order was given to the <Hudong shipyards> in Shanghaiafter lengthy negotiations with West German shipbuilders, thecompany said in a statement.    The Chinese firm offered to build the vessel at over 30 mlnmarks less than West German yards, despite government subsidieswhich Bonn pays its ailing shipbuilding industry, Hapag said. Acompany spokesman would not comment on the total order valuebut said the new vessel would replace the 33,333 dwt SydneyExpress in 1989 and would carry 2,700 container units. REUTER
THAILAND BUYS YUGOSLAV CRANES IN BARTER DEAL The Cabinet approved a plan for thePort Authority of Thailand to buy six gantry cranes fromMetalna Co of Yugoslavia for about 13.4 mln dlrs, a governmentspokesman said.    He said Thailand will pay for 25 pct of the cost of thecranes in U.S. Dlrs and the rest by sales of rice, textiles andother commodities to Yugoslavia.    The Bangkok Shipowners and Agents Association has appealedto the government to scrap the purchase plan. It said it wouldbe an unnecessary expense as most vessels calling at the portalready have their own cargo handling equipment. Reuter
U.S. CARGO PREFERENCE SQUABBLE CONTINUES The U.S. Agriculture Department saidit will begin charging interest tomorrow on the over 12 mlndlrs the Department of Transportation, DOT, owes USDA to payfor its share of the cost of shipping food aid on U.S. vessels.    USDA General Sales Manager Melvin Sims told the SenateAppropriations Agriculture Subcommittee his department hadbilled DOT 12 mln dlrs, and that interest on that amount and anadditional charge would begin accruing April 1.    USDA's Foreign Agricultural Service Administrator ThomasKay told Reuters DOT could owe USDA as much as 20 mln dlrs.    The two departments are trying to hammer out an accord onhow to fund the increasing share of food aid required to beshipped on U.S. flag vessels under a 1985 farm bill provisionon cargo preference.    Sims said the agencies were near to reaching a memorandumof understanding governing how DOT would pay for its share ofthe cargo preference costs.    Under the 1985 bill, the percentage of food aid shipmentscarried on U.S. vessels was to increase gradually over threeyears to 75 pct in 1988 from 50 pct.    Although the increased cost was to be funded by DOT, Simssaid that department to date has contributed no money. Reuter
HONDURAS SEEKING VESSELS FOR BULK WHEAT SHIPMENT Honduras will tender April 2 forU.S. and non-U.S. flag vessels to import 19,369 tonnes of wheatin bulk, an agent for the country said.    The agent said Honduras is seeking vessels to deliver 7,369 tonnes during a period that includes laydays of April15-30, and 12,000 tonnes with laydays of May 15-30.    Offers are due no later than 1200 hrs EST, April 2, andwill remain valid through the close of business the followingday, the agent said. Reuter
TAIWAN SEES SHARP DECLINE IN SHIPBREAKING Taiwan's shipbreaking industry isexpected to decline sharply this year despite the boom in 1986because of keener competition from South Korea and China, therising Taiwan dollar and U.S. Import curbs on steel products,industry sources said.    Last year, Taiwanese breakers demolished a record 344vessels totalling 3.69 million light displacement tons (ldt),up on 165 of 2.97 million ldt in 1985, Lin Chung-jung, a TaiwanShipbreaking Industry Association (TSIA) spokesman, toldReuters.    China scrapped vessels of some 1.1 mln ldt last year whileSouth Korea demolished ships of 910,000 ldt, he said.    Yao Liu, president of Chi Shun Hwa Steel Co, a leadingshipbreaker and steel producer in Kaohsiung, told Reuters, "Weexpect to scrap fewer ships this year because of an expecteddecline in our steel product exports."    Lin said many breakers predicted a 20 pct decline inscrapping operations this year due to falling demand from theU.S., Japan and Southeast Asia for Taiwanese steel.    Taiwan agreed last year to voluntarily limit its steelproduct exports to the U.S. To 120,000 tonnes in the first halfof 1987 from about 260,000 tonnes in the first half of 1986, aTaiwan Steel and Iron Association official said.    Yao said the rising Taiwan dollar means Taiwan's steelexports are more expensive than South Korea's and China's.    The Taiwan dollar has strengthened by some 16 pct againstthe U.S. Unit since September 1985 and some bankers andeconomists said it could appreciate to 32 to the U.S. Dollar bythe end of the year from 34.23 today, Yao said.    In comparison, the won rose by about five pct and yuanremained stable during the same period, he added.    "We have lost some orders to South Korea and mainland Chinabecause foreign importers have switched their purchases," hesaid.    Taiwan's steel exports to the U.S., Japan and SoutheastAsia slipped to 148,000 tonnes in the first two months of 1987from about 220,000 tonnes a year earlier, the Taiwan Steel andIron Association official said.    He said he expected further declines in later months butdid not give figures. REUTER
ROTTERDAM GRAIN HANDLERS STAGE LIGHTNING STRIKES Lightning strikes hit the grain sectorof the port of Rotterdam today after employers turned downunion demands for shorter working hours in a new labouragreement, transport union FNV spokesman Bert Duim said.    Around 140 grain handlers stopped work, 125 of them at thetwo Europoort locations of Graan Elevator Mij (GEM), whichhandles about 95 pct of grain, oilseeds and derivatives passingthrough Rotterdam.    GEM managing director Pieter van der Vorm said thefacilities were 40 pct operational.    The employers had invited the unions for talks later today,but details of the labour agreement would not be on the agenda,Van der Vorm said.    It is barely one month since the end of an eight-weekcampaign of lightning strikes against redundancies inRotterdam's general cargo sector, which stevedoring companiessaid cost them millions of guilders. REUTER
FRENCH CEREAL EXPORTS THROUGH ROUEN UP IN MARCH French cereals exports through Rouen portrose to 751,563 tonnes between March 1 and March 25 from603,413 tonnes in the same 1986 period, freight sources said.    The Soviet Union took 263,051 tonnes of wheat and barley,Saudi Arabia 90,944 tonnes barley, China 87,259 wheat, Algeria64,896 wheat, Bangladesh 30,000 wheat, Morocco 27,500 maize,Greece 26,700 wheat and barley, Spain 25,124 wheat, Poland24,683 wheat, Brazil 24,082 wheat, Italy 21,659 wheat, Cyprus20,700 wheat and maize, Israel 16,500 maize and the U.K. 8,797tonnes wheat.    Six ships are loading 120,000 tonnes of wheat, the sourcessaid. They include 30,000 tonnes for China, 31,000 for theSoviet Union, 25,000 for Turkey, and 35,000 for Italy. Anothership is loading 17,000 tonnes of colza for the Soviet Union.    Another 12 ships should arrive to load 344,000 tonnes ofcereals by the end of the week. Six are to load 186,000 tonnesof wheat for the Soviet Union. Two will load 60,000 tonnes ofbarley for Saudi Arabia, one 28,000 tonnes of wheat for China,two 25,000 tonnes of wheat each for Algeria and Turkey and one20,000 tonnes of wheat for Italy. Another is expected to load20,000 tonnes of colza for the Soviet Union.    Flour exports through Rouen rose to 23,457 tonnes in the 25day period from 5,500 in the equivalent 1986 period, thesources said.    Sudan took 19,327 tonnes and west coast Africa 4,130.    Four ships are currently loading 32,000 tonnes, including24,000 for Egypt, 6,000 for Tanzania and 2,000 for Mauritania.    A ship is expected later this week to load 12,000 tonnesfor China. Reuter
ARGENTINE GRAIN SHIPPING SITUATION One grain vessel was awaiting berthat Bahia Blanca, four at Buenos Aires and five at Rosario, onMarch 31, National Grain Board figures show.    The situation at these ports was as follows, giving thenumber of ships loading, awaiting berth and expectedrespectively.    Bahia Blanca - 4, 1, 1    Buenos Aires - 1, 4, 9    Rosario -      6, 5, 7    The tonnage of grain and oilseeds to be loaded onto shipsloading, awaiting berth and expected at each port was asfollows.    Bahia Blanca - Wheat 161,360.    Buenos Aires - Maize 104,304, Wheat 14,330.    Rosario - Wheat 50,400, maize 157,040, subproducts 50,100,sunflowerseed 1,000 and millet 3,100. REUTER
GRAIN SHIPS WAITING AT NEW ORLEANS Ten grain ships were loading and 18were waiting to load at New Orleans elevators, trade sourcessaid. ELEVATOR                     LOADING  WAITING Continental Grain, Westwego     1      3 Mississippi River, Myrtle Grove 2      0 ADM Growmark                    1      4 Bunge Grain, Destrehan          1      0    ELEVATOR                LOADING  WAITING ST CHARLES DESTREHAN         1      3 RESERVE ELEVATOR CORP        0      1 PEAVEY CO, ST ELMO           1      2 CARGILL GRAIN, TERRE HAUTE   1      4 CARGILL GRAIN, PORT ALLEN    1      0 ZEN-NOH                      1      1 reuter
LONDON GRAIN FREIGHT ENQUIRIES Rio Grande/Azores and Leixoes 26,000 mthss 14 dlrs basis one to two 4,000/1,500 Azores and 3,500Leixoes 25/4-5/5.    Paranagua/one-two ports Spanish Med 35,000 mt hss 11.50dlrs basis one to one 10 days all purposes 20-30/4.    USG/Taiwan 54,000 mt hss 10,000 shex/4,000 shex 20/4-5/5.    USG/ARA-Ghent option Seaforth 40,000/45,000 long tons hss10 days all purposes 9-15/4 try later.    Dieppe/one-two ports Italian Adriatic 9,500/11,000 mt bulkwheat 3,000/2,000 6-12/4.    St Lawrence/one-three ports Marseilles-Manfredonia range20,000/35,000 mt bulk wheat 5,000/222,500 10-15/4.    Chimbote/Kaohsiung 9,500 mt bulk/bagged fishmeal 250 ph/200ph 20/4-5/5.    Immingham or Foynes/Red Sea 25,000 mt bulk barley4,000/3,000 10-15/4 alternatively try t/c.    USG/Maracaibo 10,000 mt wheat (three grades) threedays/1,000 1-15/4. Reuter
LONDON METAL FREIGHTS Rotterdam/Karachi20,000/21,000 mt shredded scrap 7,000/1,100 15-30/4.    Bin Qasim/Shanghai 25,000 mt pig iron 1,500 fhex/1,200 shex1-10/4.    Chungjin/Manila 4,200 mt steel coils 800/liner discharge23-30/4.    Bilbao/one port Vietnam 5,000 mt steels fio 1,000/500 endApril    Singapore/Mizushima 6,000/10,000 mt steel scrap fiot1,200/3,00 2-12/4. Reuter
LONDON ORE ENQUIRIES/FIXTURES South Africa/Salvador, Brazil15,000 long tons manganese ore 2,500/1,500 end April.    Callao/Crotone 5,000 mt minerals 4,000/2,000 spot.    Geraldton/Tampico 13,500 mt bulk mineral sands fio10,000/2,000 1-10/5.    Itea/Dunkirk 20,000 mt bauxite seven days all purposes10-13/4.    Tampico/North Spain 15,000 mt ore two days shinc/3,000 shex5-25/4.    One port German North Sea/USG 10,500 mt bulk ore2,500/4,000 7-13/4. Reuter
LONDON SUGAR FREIGHTS Delfzyl/India 14,700 mtbagged sugar about 30 dlrs 750/1,000 ppt a/c Benham.    Antwerp/Lagos 12,000 mt bagged sugar 750/750 try linerdischarge 5-20/4 a/c E D and F Man.    T/C single or tweendecker 16,000/19,000 tonnes dw delQueensland mid-April/early-May for trip with bulk sugar redelChina duration about 30 to 40 days a/c Kawasaki.    One port A-H range/Dubai 6,800 mt bagged sugar 750/75010-15/4 a/c unnamed charterer.    enquiries - Rouen-Hamburg/India 14,000 mt bagged sugar750/1,000 15-25/4 a/c Woodhouse, Drake and Carey.    Flushing/Hodeidah and Mokha 16,800 mt bagged sugar 750/7509-15/4 Genoc.    Santos/Hodeidah 10,000 mt bagged sugar about 30 dlrs750/750 20-30/4 a/c Dutch charterer.    Cargill is reported to have withdrawn its enquiries forcargoes from South Korea to India, from Constanza to India andfrom Buenaventura to the U.S. Reuter
AGENCY REPORTS 41 SHIPS WAITING AT PANAMA CANAL The Panama Canal Commission, a U.S.government agency, said in its daily operations report thatthere was a backlog of 41 ships waiting to enter the canalearly today. Over the next two days it expects --                           4/01  4/02                       Due: 34    34      Scheduled to Transit: 41    39           End-Day Backlog: 34    29    Average waiting time tomorrow --         Super Tankers  Regular Vessels North End:  25 hrs      11 hrs South End:  24 hrs      31 hrs Reuter
GULF BARGE FREIGHT HIGHER IN NEARBYS ON CALL Gulf barge freight rates continued toshow a firmer tone in the nearbys on the assumption thatchanges in the Gulf posted prices will encourage increases inboth PIK-and-roll activity and barges shipments, with a totalof 21 barges traded this morning on the ST Louis Merchants'Exchange call session, versus nine yesterday, dealers said.    Quotes included - - This week Mississippi River (Granite City, MLA if P/O)traded at 175 pct of tariff, five percentage points aboveyesterday's bid. - Next week Mississippi (Alton/Granite City, MLA if P/O) bidfive points higher at 175 pct, offered at 190. - Five barges each week April MidMississippi River(Dubuque/south) traded at yesterday's bid of 170 pct. - April Illinois River (ex Chicago) 160 pct bid, offered 10points higher at 170. - May same section 140 pct bid, offered five lower at 145. - May MidMississippi River (Dubuque/south) bid 2-1/2 pointshigher at 142-1/2 pct, offered at 145. - June/July lower Mississippi River (Memphis/Cairo) offered at120 pct, no bids. - June/Aug upper Mississippi River (Lacrosse/Savage) offeredat 150 pct, no bids. - Oct/Nov MidMississippi (Dubuque/south, L/H NovClinton/south) 170 pct bid/177-1/2 offered - no comparison. - December Illinois River (ex Chicago) 122-1/2 pct bid/127-1/2offered - down 2-1/2 points on offer. Reuter
TUGS TO ATTEMPT REFLOATING KOREAN BULK CARRIER Seven tugs will attempt to refloat theSouth Korean motor bulk carrier Hyundai New World tonight,Lloyds shipping intelligence service said in its latest update.    The vessel grounded close to Itaqui port in Brazil lastnight after undocking from Ponta da Madeira terminal.    Lloyds said the 200,000 dwt vessel is carrying about180,000 tons of ore.    Five holds are partially flooded and there is some leakageof bunkers from double bottom tanks. At low water tide thevessel has a list of five degrees to port and the listincreases as the tide rises.    Reuter
GRAIN SHIPS LOADING AT PORTLAND There were five grain ships loading andthree ships were waiting to load at Portland, according to thePortland Merchants Exchange. Reuter
PROPOSED OFFERINGS RECENTLY FILED WITH THE SEC The following proposed securitiesofferings were filed recently with the Securities and ExchangeCommission:    Allied Supermarkets Inc <ASU> - Offering of 140 mln dlrs ofsenior subordinated discount debentures due 1999 and 100 mlndlrs of subordinated debentures due 2001 through Drexel BurnhamLambert Inc and Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette Securities Corp.    Integrated Resources Inc <IRE> - Offering of 150 mln dlrsof senior notes, with 50 mln dlrs due April 15, 1990, 50 mlndlrs due April 15, 1992 and 50 mln dlrs due April 15, 1995, allthrough Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. Reuter
U.S. HOUSE PANEL EXTENDS EEP, URGES USSR OFFER The U.S. House Agriculture Committeeapproved proposals to extend the life of the Export EnhancementProgram, EEP, through fiscal 1990 and urged the Reaganadministration offer EEP wheat to the Soviet Union.    The proposals were approved as amendments to acomprehensive trade bill moving through Congress this year.    In addition to the amendments on EEP, the committeeapproved several proposals which could restrict imports oflamb, casein, sugar-containing products and tobacco. Thoseamendments affecting imports face an uncertain future becausethe House Ways and Means Committee, which has overalljurisdiction over trade legislation, will oppose them,Congressional sources said.    The effect of the EEP amendments would be to extend thelife of the program five years through fiscal 1990 rather thanthe current three years through fiscal 1988.    The amendments, offered by Rep. Dan Glickman, D-Kan., alsowould increase funding for the program to 2.5 billion dlrs from1.5 billion now.    Furthermore, the committee passed an amendment offered byRep. Glickman which instructs the U.S. Agriculture Departmentto value EEP bonus commodities at market value, not acquisitionvalue. Glickman said the change would make the program 30 pctless expensive to operate.    The provision on EEP wheat to the Soviet Union, offered byRep. Bob Smith, R-Ore., does not require the administrationmake an offer, but urges such action.    The committee approved an amendment, offered by Rep. GlennEnglish, D-Okla., requiring the Secretary of Agriculture tobegin discussions with other major grain producing countriesaimed at jointly reducing world grain production.    Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter yesterday opposed theamendment, saying such commodity agreements do not work.    Among the host of amendments to restrict imports approvedby the panel, the most significant would require quotas onimports of goods containing more than 25 pct of a bulk farmproduct that is subject to U.S. quotas. The amendment, offeredby Rep. Arlan Stangeland, R-Minn., is aimed primarily atcurbing imports from Canada of products containing sugar andforeign foods containing dairy products. It also may affectpeanut, cotton and tobacco imports, Committee sources said.    Another amendment would place a quota on U.S. imports ofcasein, a dairy product shipped to the U.S. primarily by NewZealand and Ireland.    The panel also voted to apply to lamb imports the samecountercyclical import quota law which is operating for U.S.beef imports.    Other miscellaneous amendments included:    -- Urging the administration consider retaliating againstJapan and South Korea if those countries do not removerestrictions on beef imports.    -- Boosting the amount of U.S. grain which must be shippedeach year under a food aid program called Section 416 to800,000 tonnes from 500,000 tonnes now.    -- Requiring the Agriculture Secretary conduct a study ofthe Canadian Wheat Board import licensing system for wheat todetermine if it is a non-tariff trade barrier.    -- Requiring the Agriculture Secretary reimburse theNational Corn Growers Association up to 500,000 dlrs for thecosts of defending the U.S. feedgrains program against aCanadian countervailing duty case this year.    -- Urging the administration oppose the Canadian decisionto apply a duty on U.S. corn imports, and a proposal by theEuropean Community to apply a vegetable oils tax.    -- USDA conduct a study of the findings of a NationalCommission on Agricultural Export Policy, which recommended areorganization of USDA's trade policy apparatus. Reuter
AUSTRALIAN TUG CREWS DELAY FOREIGN CONTAINER SHIPS Tug crews are preventing the movement offoreign-flag container vessels in and out of the ports ofSydney, Melbourne and Fremantle, shipping sources said.    They said maritime unions imposed bans on late Wednesdayfor reasons that are obscure but seem to be linked with claimsfor a pay rise above the 10 dlrs a week awarded by theArbitration Commission nationally to all workers recently.    Only about 10 vessels are being delayed but the bans willaffect container terminal movements and will disrupt linerschedules, they said.    The dispute goes to the Commission on Monday, they said. REUTER
ROTTERDAM'S MAIN GRAIN TERMINAL CLOSED BY STRIKE Grain handling at Rotterdam port'smain grain terminal was at a standstill today as members of thelargest Dutch transport union FNV staged a lightning strike forthe third day running.    Pieter van der Vorm, managing director of Graan ElevatorMij (GEM), which handles 95 pct of grain passing through theport, said their main Europoort terminal was out of actionbecause of a strike by technical staff.    The actions, in support of union demands in negotiationsover a new labour agreement, began on Wednesday when grainhandlers stopped work.    Van der Vorm said that if strikes continued on today'sscale for some time vessels coming to unload grain in Rotterdamwould face delays, but this was not happening yet.    Wednesday's actions left GEM's facilities 40 pctoperational, and there were only limited strikes yesterday.    Talks between unions and employers yesterday and todayproduced no result, but FNV spokesman Bert Duim said the unionwas prepared to put their key demand, for a 36 hour workingweek, at the bottom of the agenda.    Van der Vorm said, however, the union's demands on a rangeof issues were far in excess of the management's final offer. REUTER
SOUTH KOREA TO PAY MORE FOR JAPANESE ETHYLENE South Korea will pay about 20 pct more forethylene imported from Japan in the second quarter of the yearbecause increased plastic production in both countries hasboosted demand and tightened supplies, chemical industrysources said.    South Korea has agreed to pay Japanese trading houses justover 400 dlrs C and F per tonne, up from an average of 350 dlrsin the first quarter and throughout 1986, they said.    South Korean demand for imported ethylene this month hasrisen to 17,000 tonnes from 10,000 last month, and the countrymay face difficulties covering the extra volume, they said.    <Korea Petrochemical Industries Corp>, a producer of highdensity polyethylene (HDPE) and polypropylene, will more thandouble its ethylene requirements to 9,000 tonnes a month from4,000 when it completes a plant expansion at the end of thismonth, the sources said.    <Honan Ethylene Corp's> import requirements have risen to8,000 tonnes a month from 6,000 tonnes last year to meet strongdemand from <Honan Petrochemical Co>, which makes HDPE andethylene glycol, and <Hangyang Chemical>, which produceslow-density polyethylene and vinyl chloride monomer, they said.    But Japan's ethylene plants are already operating at almostfull capacity of 4.5 mln tonnes a year just to fulfill domesticdemand, the sources said.    "And even if Japan had the additional ethylene, there is alogistical problem of finding extra appropriate-sized vesselsto ship it to Korea," said one trading house source.    Japanese trading companies are looking to alternativesources to supply South Korea's needs, including Saudi Arabia,Qatar and Mexico, they said.    But long-haul voyages are expensive as the product has tobe shipped at a temperature of minus 103 degrees centigrade tokeep it in a liquid form, they said.    Japan has no plans to invest further in the ethyleneindustry in order to cope with the additional demand, despiterising prices, trading house sources said.    South Korea has two projects in hand which will increaseits ethylene production capacity by 500,000 tonnes a year bythe end of 1989, so the strong demand surge for imports is onlya medium-term trend, they said. REUTER
AUSTRALIA TUG CREWS BAR FOREIGN CONTAINER SHIPS Tug crews are preventing the movement offoreign-flag container vessels in and out of the ports ofSydney, Melbourne and Fremantle, shipping sources said.    They said maritime unions imposed bans on late Wednesdayfor reasons that are obscure but seem to be linked with claimsfor a pay rise above the 10 dlrs a week awarded by theArbitration Commission nationally to all workers recently.    Only about 10 vessels are being delayed but the bans willaffect container terminal movements and will disrupt linerschedules, they said.    The dispute goes to the Commission on Monday, they said. Reuter
LONDON FREIGHT MARKET FEATURES USSR TIMECHARTERS Active timecharter fixing by Sovietoperators to cover USSR grain imports featured the freightmarket, ship brokers said.    At least two fixtures were reported on Soviet account tolift EC grain, with a 22,000 tonner booked from Tilbury for avoyage via lower Baltic Sea and redelivery passing Skaw at4,000 dlrs daily and a 27,000 tonner from Ceuta for a voyagevia the U.K. And redelivery Skaw-Cape Passero at 4,500 dlrsdaily.    The Soviets also secured a 34,000 tonner from Gibraltar fora trans-Atlantic round trip at 4,500 dlrs daily and a 61,000tonner for similar business at 6,750 dlrs daily.    Brokers said several other fixtures were also thought to beconnected with Soviet grain, including a 69,000 tonner fromTaranto for five to seven months at 6,500 dlrs daily. Similarfixing was reported yesterday at 6,000 dlrs.    Other timecharter fixing included a 14,000 tonner fromIndonesia to the U.S. Gulf at 2,800 dlrs daily and a combinedcarrier of 75,000 tonnes dw from the U.S. Gulf to Italy at9,000 dlrs daily.    Severel vessels were booked from Antwerp-Hamburg range,including a 61,000 tonner bound for Singapore-Japan at 7,500dlrs daily and a 16,000 tonner destined for west coast India at5,000 dlrs.    Grain fixing was much quieter out of the U.S. Gulf, with nofresh business seen on the significant routes to the Continentor Japan, although tonnage was secured for at least five smallcorn cargoes from the Gulf to Jamaica at between 21 and 25dlrs. Wheat from the River Plate and Buenos Aires to Sri Lankareceived 26 dlrs.    Market talk suggested 11 dlrs had been paid for grain fromthe U.S. North Pacific to Japan but no confirmation wasavailable.    Fairly active grain fixing emerged out of the Continent,however, with maize covered from Nantes to Egypt at 15 dlrs,and bagged flour from Greece to China at 27 dlrs.    Barley cargoes were arranged from Immingham to the Red Seaat 17.25 dlrs and from Foynes to Jeddah at 17.25 dlrs. Reuter
AGENCY REPORTS 30 SHIPS WAITING AT PANAMA CANAL The Panama Canal Commission, a U.S.government agency, said in its daily operations report thatthere was a backlog of 30 ships waiting to enter the canalearly today. Over the next two days it expects --                           4/03  4/04                       Due: 36    28      Scheduled to Transit: 38    38           End-Day Backlog: 28    18    Average waiting time tomorrow --         Super Tankers  Regular Vessels North End:  19 hrs       8 hrs South End:  20 hrs      16 hrs Reuter
IRAQ SAYS ITS FORCES SINK THREE IRANIAN VESSELS Iraq said its forces sank three Iranianboats that tried to approach its disused deep water oilterminal in the northern Gulf today.    A military spokesman, quoted by the official Iraqi newsagency, said other Iranian boats fled. He did not identify thevessels.    Iraq's major oil outlets in the northern Gulf were closedshortly after the war with Iran started in late 1980. Reuter
GRAIN SHIPS LOADING AT PORTLAND There were five grain ships loading andthree ships were waiting to load at Portland, according to thePortland Merchants Exchange. Reuter
ARGENTINE GRAIN SHIPMENTS IN THE WEEK TO APRIL 1 The Argentine Grain Board issuedthe following figures covering shipments of major export grainsin the week to April 1, in tonnes, with comparisons for theprevious week and the same week in 1986.    Bread wheat        235,800    205,700    115,500    Maize              158,400    189,000    272,700    Sorghum             26,500     18,700     39,900    Soybean                nil        nil        nil    Sunflowerseed        1,800     18,800        nil    Cumulative figures for April 1 and this calendar year, withthe previous year's figures in brackets, are as follows, inthousands of tonnes:    Bread wheat        64.3   (44.5),    3,074.4   (2,851.4)    Maize              48.3  (107.7),      486.1     (922.4)    Sorghum             5.1   (22.2),      108.1     (188.8)    Soybean             nil    (nil),        nil       (nil)    Sunflowerseed       0.9    (nil),       43.2       (nil) REUTER
EXPORT BUSINESS - GRAINS/OILSEEDS COMPLEX Grain and oilseed complex exportbusiness reported since yesterday by government agencies andprivate exporters -    Japanese crushers bought 4,000 to 5,000 tonnes of Canadianrapeseed in export business overnight for May shipment...Greecehas agreed to buy 27,000 to 33,000 tonnes of Spanish corn forspot shipment, with Italy buying 6,000 to 7,000 tonnes ofSpanish corn for last/half April shipment, a spokesman forcargill's spanish unit said...Taiwan bought 54,000 tonnes ofU.S. soybeans for April 20/May 5 delivery C and F...    (Continued) - The India State Trading Corp bought 20,000tonnes of optional origin soybean oil for May 20/June 20shipment and 6,000 tonnes of RBD palm olein for April 25/May 25shipment at its import tender yesterday...Pakistan rejectedoffers at its tender for 12,000 tonnes of RBD palm oil, but isexpected to retender next week...The U.S. Department ofAgriculture (USDA) said it has accepted a bid for an exportbonus to cover the sale of 50,000 tonnes of U.S. hard redwinter wehat to Sri Lanka for April 8/16 shipment, with anadditional 10,000 tonnes of wheat still available to Sri Lankaunder the Export Enhancement Program (EEP)...    (Continued) - The USDA said it has accepted a bid for anexport bonus to cover the sale of 18,000 tonnes of U.S. durumwheat to Algeria for June 20/30 shipment, with an additional228,000 tonnes still available to Algeria under the EEP.    Tenders - Jordan will tender Monday, April 6, for 225,000tonnes of U.S. hard and soft wheats for various April/Novshipments under the EEP.    Market talk and comment - The USDA said Turkey has beenmade eligible for the sale of up to 70,000 tonnes of mediumgrain milled rice under the EEP...    Market talk and comment (continued) - The USDA announcedColombia has been made eligible for sale of up to 15,000 tonnesof U.S. barley malt under the EEP...The Canadian GrainCommission reported Canadian wheat exports in the week endedMarch 29 totalled 447,200 tonnes, compared with 277,700 theprevious week, with 1986/87 season exports so far up to10,228,600 tonnes versus 10,637,500 for the 1985/86 season,with barley exports 38,800 tonnes, 106,700 tonnes, 4,804,500and 1,892,600 respectively, rapeseed 43,900 tonnes, 50,700tonnes, 1,292,600 and 920,000 respectively and flaxseed 20,700tonnes, 13,600 tonens, 450,900 and 392,600 respectively...    Market talk and comment (continued) - Pakistan is notemerging as a major wheat exporter as World market prospectsare not good enough, a government official said...Activetimecharter fixing by Soviet operators to cover USSR grainimprts featured the ocean freight market this morning, shipbrokers said...Dry cargo futures on the BIFFEX extendedyesterday's strong advance, with sharp gains of 22 to 17 pointsin response to rumors of higher rates for grain business fromthe U.S. Gulf to Japan, dealers said. Reuter
S. KOREA ORDERS MERGERS OF TROUBLED COMPANIES South Korea ordered the takeover of sixfinancially troubled overseas construction firms and twoshipping companies under the government's industrialrealignment programme, Finance Ministry officials said.    They said the Industrial Policy Deliberation Committeedecided to allow concessionary loans to three firms taking overthe eight. The companies involved would be exempted fromcorporate tax and property transfer and registration taxes.    Under the programme, five subsidaries of <Chung WooDevelopment Co Ltd> will be taken over by <Byuck San Corp>,<Korea Develpoment Corp> by <Daelim Industrial Co Ltd>, and twosubsidaries of <Korea Shipping Corp> by the <Hanjin Group>.    Another five construction companies were ordered to improvetheir financial status by reorganising their subsidiaries orselling off unproductive real estate holdings to help repaybank loans, the officials said.    These are <Pacific Construction Co Ltd>, <Life ConstructionCo Ltd>, <Chin Heung International Co Ltd>, <Samick Co Ltd> and<Hanshin Construction Co Ltd>.    A further five shipping companies -- <Hanjin Container LineLtd>, <Choyang Shipping Co Ltd>, <Hyundai Merchant Marine CoLtd>, <Pan Ocean Shipping Co> and <Dooyang Line Co Ltd> -- willbe allowed to defer the repayment of bank loans and interest,but details have yet to be finalised, the officials said.    They said the government would take similar measures formore companies in August in line with the continuingrealignment policy, which had already affected 56 firms lastyear. REUTER
U.S. NAVY SAID INCREASING PRESENCE NEAR GULF Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger hasordered the U.S. Navy to increase its presence near the Gulf inan effort to fulfil President Reagan's pledge to keep oilflowing to Europe and Japan, The New York Times reported.    The newspaper quoted Pentagon officials as saying the Navywould keep the aircraft carrier Kitty Hawk on station in theArabian Sea and the rest of the Indian Ocean until May, threemonths longer than planned.    The Navy would then have a carrier battle group of six toeight warships in the area at all times rather than part of thetime, as happens now, the paper said.    The paper said that last month U.S. Intelligence sourcessaid they had spotted land-based anti-ship missiles of aChinese design known in the West as the HY-2 near the Strait ofHormuz.    It said their purpose was seen as a signal Iran was readyto continue and perhaps step up the Gulf shipping war againstIraq.    U.S. Carriers or battleships would sail out of range ofthose missiles, but within striking distance, the paper quotedofficials as saying.    From several hundred miles at sea, carriers could launchaircraft bombing runs or missile strikes, and battleships couldfire long-range missiles, the paper said. REUTER
KUWAIT MAY RE-REGISTER GULF TANKERS - NEWSPAPER Kuwait may re-register part of itstanker fleet with foreign flag jurisdictions, including theU.S. And USSR, in an attempt to protect them from Iranianmissile attacks in the Gulf war zone, U.S. Officials werequoted by the New York Times as saying.    The transfers would allow the country of registration toescort Kuwaiti-owned ships in the Gulf. Kuwait had earlierdeclined an offer of U.S. Naval escorts as too public anadmission of its need for protection, they said.    Kuwait is also looking at flagging-out to Europeanregistries, the officials said.    Soviet flag tankers transporting Kuwaiti oil through theGulf may get Soviet escorts, the officials said.    Kuwait had earlier considered having both USSR and U.S.Escorts, but the U.S. Was unwilling to give the Soviet Union anaval role in the region, the newspaper quoted the officials assaying.    Kuwait has backed Iraq in the seven-year war against Iranand its ships have increasingly been the target of Iranianattacks.    The U.S. And Kuwait have been negotiating for over a monthon methods of protecting Kuwaiti ships. REUTER
KUWAIT MAY RE-REGISTER GULF TANKERS - NEWSPAPER Kuwait may re-register part of itstanker fleet with foreign flag jurisdictions, including theU.S. And USSR, in an attempt to protect them from Iranianmissile attacks in the Gulf war zone, U.S. Officials werequoted by the New York Times as saying.    The transfers would allow the country of registration toescort Kuwaiti-owned ships in the Gulf. Kuwait had earlierdeclined an offer of U.S. Naval escorts as too public anadmission of its need for protection, they said.    Kuwait is also looking at flagging-out to Europeanregistries, the officials said.    Soviet flag tankers transporting Kuwaiti oil through theGulf may get Soviet escorts, the officials said.    Kuwait had earlier considered having both USSR and U.S.Escorts, but the U.S. Was unwilling to give the Soviet Union anaval role in the region, the newspaper quoted the officials assaying.    Kuwait has backed Iraq in the seven-year war against Iranand its ships have increasingly been the target of Iranianattacks.    The U.S. And Kuwait have been negotiating for over a monthon methods of protecting Kuwaiti ships. REUTER
BRAZIL SEAMEN'S STRIKE ENDS A Brazilian seamen's strike, whichbegan on February 27 and has been tapering off for weeks, hasnow ended, a seamen's spokesman said.    The spokesman said the seamen had signed an agreement withthe state-owned Lloyd Brasileiro company on Saturday for a 120pct salary rise.    The national strike had been tailing off since mid-March asseamen struck individual accords with companies. At the heightof the stoppage, seamen said about 200 ships were strike-bound. Reuter
KUWAIT ASKS TO USE FOREIGN FLAG TANKERS, U.S SAYS Kuwait has asked at least fourcountries, including the United States, Soviet Union, Britainand China, for temporary use of their flags or tankers toprotect Kuwaiti oil shipments in the troubled Persian Gulf,Reagan Administration officials said.    The officials confirmed a New York Times report that Kuwaitwants to transfer some of its oil tankers to U.S. or Sovietregistration in hopes Iran would be reluctant to launch new"Silkworm" missiles at superpower flags.    The United States has vowed to keep the gulf open tointernational oil traffic and has warned Tehran against usingthe Chinese-made missiles recently installed in Iran near themouth of the gulf.    "They (the Kuwaitis) have also asked Britain, China andpossibly some other European countries to lease tankers tocarry their oil," one of the administration officials, who askednot to be identified, told Reuters.    The United States is considering the request to temporarilytransfer Kuwaiti ships to American registration, but such amove could create insurance and other problems, the officialssaid.    U.S. defense officials told Reuters yesterday that Kuwaithad decided for at least the time being not to accept a U.S.offer to use American warships to escort its tankers in thegulf, where both Iran and Iraq have been attacking shipping. Reuter
GRAIN SHIPS WAITING AT NEW ORLEANS Nine grain ships were loading and 16were waiting to load at New Orleans elevators, trade sourcessaid. ELEVATOR                     LOADING  WAITING Continental Grain, Westwego     1      5 Mississippi River, Myrtle Grove 1      0 ADM Growmark                    1      2 Bunge Grain, Destrehan          1      0    ELEVATOR                LOADING  WAITING ST CHARLES DESTREHAN         1      1 RESERVE ELEVATOR CORP        1      0 PEAVEY CO, ST ELMO           1      1 CARGILL GRAIN, TERRE HAUTE   1      4 CARGILL GRAIN, PORT ALLEN    0      0 ZEN-NOH                      1      3 reuter
BERMUDA STAR <BSL> LEASES VESSEL Bermuda Star Line Inc said it hasleased a 23,500 ton passenger vessel from Orley Shipping CoInc, of Liberia for a term with options extending for 15 years.    The vessel, SS Liberte, will be renamed the Canadian Starand will be used for cruises to Montreal from New York,beginning in June.    Orley SHipping is partially owned by Common Brothers PLC, aU.K. maritime firm which owns 60 pct of Bermuda Star's sharesand arranged debt financing for the ship's purchase.    Orley acquired the vessel from Banstead Shipping Ltd. Termswere not disclosed. Reuter
CONRAIL FILES PETITION AGAINST ERIE <ERIE> Erie Lackawanna Inc said ConsolidatedRail Corp filed with the U.S. Supreme Court seeking review of aCourt of Appeals opinion which held Erie as not being liablefor damages allegedly resulting from operations prior to itsemergence from reorganization in 1982.    The claims are for damages for asbestosis and otherwork-related injuries claimed by former employees of the ErieLackawanna.    Erie said it intends to oppose Conrail's request. Reuter
GRAIN SHIPS LOADING AT PORTLAND There were six grain ships loading andsix ships were waiting to load at Portland, according to thePortland Merchants Exchange.   Reuter
FOB U.S. GULF CORN VALUES SLIGHTLY FIRMER FOB U.S. gulf corn values wereslightly firmer as active gulf interest boosted gulf FOB andCIF values today, exporters said.    Loading programs and relatively slow country movement keptgulf interest lively. There were indications that 50,000 tonnestraded for August shipment at 20 cents over September, that50,000 tonnes traded yesterday for June at 20-1/2 cents overJuly, and that 25,000 tonnes of number three corn tradedyesterday off the Atlantic at 23 over May for May 1-20.    Hard wheat offers were firm amid tight pipeline supplies.    Dealers quoted the following afternoon FOB U.S. gulfvalues, basis Chicago futures, except hard red winter wheatbasis Kansas City. (In cents per bushel)       Corn (Number three grade) April - 23 ov May bid, 26 offered. May - 23 ov May bid, 26 offered. June - 21 ov Jly bid, 23 offered.      Soybeans L/H April - No bids, 26 ov May offered. May - No bids, 25 ov May offered. June - No bids, 26 ov Jly offered.      HRW wheat April - No bids, 43 ov May offered. May - No bids, 43 ov May offered. June - No bids, 45 ov Jly offered. July - 35 ov Jly bid, 39 offered. August - 35 ov Sep bid, 39 offered. September - 36 ov Sep bid, 40 offered.       SRW wheat March - No bids or offers. July - 15 ov Jly bid, 19 offered. August - 15 ov Sep bid, 19 offered. September - 16 ov Sep bid, 23 offered. Reuter
DOLLAR ENDS WITH MODEST LOSSES IN NEW YORK The dollar ended with modest net lossesagainst most major currencies as the market conducted a finalround of position-squaring ahead of tomorrow's crucial Group ofFive and Group of Seven meetings, dealers said.    "The dollar was trendless today. People are waiting to seeif anything new comes from the meetings tomorrow and will thentake it from there," said one dealer at a top European bank.    As a result, generally supportive comments by FederalReserve Chairman Paul Volcker and Japanese Finance MinisterKiichi Miyazawa went largely unheeded.    The dollar closed at 145.60/70 yen, down from 145.85/90.    However, the dollar's yen closing level was comfortablyabove its overseas low of just under 145 yen. Against the mark,the dollar finished at 1.8270/80 marks after falling to 1.8180in Europe and ending at 1.8260/70 here yesterday.    In Congressional testimony this morning, Fed Chairman PaulVolcker harped on his long-held fears about the potentiallycatastrophic fallout from a sharp dollar decline.    He also said the dollar's fall, thus far, should be "largeenough, in a context of a growing world economy and fiscalrestraint in the U.S., to support widespread expectations of anarrowing in the real trade deficit in the period ahead."    The market impact of Volcker's comments was minimal. "Itwas the same old story. Volcker was just fulfilling his role asa defender of the currency," said one trader.    The market was similarly dismissive of Japanese FinanceMinister Kiichi Miyazawa's upbeat appraisal of his hour-longconversation with U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker thisafternoon.    Miyazawa said that they both agreed on the need forcurrency stabilization and that he was satisfied with the rolethe U.S. has played in coordinated international efforts toprop up the dollar since the late February Paris agreement.    "Miyazawa can talk until he's blue in the face. The onlyperson who will make a difference is Baker," said Alan Rose ofFirst Interstate Bank in Los Angeles.    "The key question for the currency market is whether the(Reagan) administration will have a change of view to thedollar. If not, the dollar is going lower," he added.    The dollar's recent tumble to a 40-year low of 144.70 yenwas linked to the market's perception that Washington wasunhappy with the rate of adjustment of world trade imbalancesand that a continued orderly dollar decline was the leastdisruptive way of accelerating the process.    While most analysts do not expect any marked change ofattitude in Washington, they were reluctant to open any freshpositions until later in the week.    "We are reserving judgement for the time being," said DougMadison of Commerzbank Ag.    The tranquility of the dollar market spread to sterlingtrading today. The pound ended unchanged against the dollar at1.6175/85 and edged up to 2.957 marks from 2.955 yesterday.    However, underlying sentiment remains positive after a U.K.opinion poll gave the ruling Conservative party its highestpopularity rating since it was re-elected in 1983.    "Sterling still seems to be on the firm side," said onedealer.    The Canadian currency also retained a generally strongertone, rising to 1.3055/60 to its U.S. counterpart from1.3080/85 yesterday.    According to figures provided by Morgan Guaranty Trust Co,the dollar's trade-weighted value at midday was 5.7 pct belowaverage market rates in 1980-82, compared with 5.5 pctyesterday. Reuter
AUSTRALIAN FOREIGN SHIP BAN ENDS BUT NSW PORTS HIT Tug crews in New South Wales (NSW),Victoria and Western Australia yesterday lifted their ban onforeign-flag ships carrying containers but NSW ports are stillbeing disrupted by a separate dispute, shipping sources said.    The ban, imposed a week ago over a pay claim, had preventedthe movement in or out of port of nearly 20 vessels, they said.    The pay dispute went before a hearing of the ArbitrationCommission today.    Meanwhile, disruption began today to cargo handling in theports of Sydney, Newcastle and Port Kembla, they said.    The industrial action at the NSW ports is part of the weekof action called by the NSW Trades and Labour Council toprotest changes to the state's workers' compensation laws.    The shipping sources said the various port unions appear tobe taking it in turn to work for a short time at the start ofeach shift and then to walk off.    Cargo handling in the ports has been disrupted, withcontainer movements most affected, but has not stoppedaltogether, they said.    They said they could not say how long the disruption willgo on and what effect it will have on shipping movements. REUTER
AUSTRALIAN FOREIGN SHIP BAN ENDS Tug crews in New South Wales (NSW),Victoria and Western Australia yesterday lifted their ban onforeign-flag ships carrying containers but NSW ports are stillbeing disrupted by a separate dispute, shipping sources said.    The ban, imposed a week ago over a pay claim, had preventedthe movement in or out of port of nearly 20 vessels, they said.The pay dispute went before a hearing of the ArbitrationCommission today.    Meanwhile, disruption began today to cargo handling in theports of Sydney, Newcastle and Port Kembla, they said.    The industrial action at the NSW ports is part of the weekof action called by the NSW Trades and Labour Council toprotest changes to the state's workers' compensation laws. Reuter
TODD SHIPYARDS <TOD> STRUCK ON WEST COAST Todd Shipyards Corp saidproduction workers represented by the multi-union Pacific CoastMetal Trades District Council at its San Francisco divisionstruck on April Six.    It said negotiations are expected to resume at the end ofthis month.    Todd also said the collective bargaining division in effectat its Galveston Division expires April 17, and negotiationswith the Galveston Metal Trades Council are continuing.    The company said results of balloting on a new collectivebargaining agreement proposal in its Seattle Division areexpected to be tabulated at the close of business tomorrow.    The Pacific Coast Council has recommended acceptance ofthat proposal by membership, Todd said.                                        Reuter
LONDON FREIGHT MARKET FEATURES GRAIN OUT OF U.S. Moderately active grain fixing wasreported out of the U.S. But none of the business involved thesignificant voyages to the Continent or Japan, ship brokerssaid.    A steady 13.50 dlrs was paid from the U.S. Gulf to Moroccoand 23.25 dlrs was paid for 27,000 long tons from the Gulf toTaiwan. A vessel carrying 13,500 long tons of bagged wheatflour from the Gulf to Aqaba received a lump sum of 472,500dlrs.    Grain from the Great Lakes to Algeria made 28 dlrs against27.75 paid for similar fixing towards the end of March.    Market talk suggested a Federal Commerce vessel had beenbooked to move grain from the Great Lakes to Morocco on Comanavaccount at about 22 dlrs and 15.50 had been paid for a cargo ofoilseeds from British Columbia to Japan, but no confirmationwas obtainable.    On the Continent, shippers agreed 19 dlrs for wheat from LaPallice to Buenaventura and 10.75 dlrs for grain from Ghent toNaples/Venice range. Elsewhere, maize from East London to Japanpaid 22 dlrs.    Soviet charterers reappeared in the timecharter sector andsecured a 30,000 tonner from Savona for a trans-Atlantic roundtrip at 4,450 dlrs daily and a 31,000 tonner fromAntwerp-Hamburg for a similar voyage at 4,250 dlrs daily. Reuter
FIRE AT TATE/LYLE LONDON JETTY HALTS UNLOADING No raw sugar is being unloaded at Tateand Lyles refinery at Silvertown on the River Thames followinga fire yesterday afternoon, Tate and Lyle Plc said.    The fire destroyed a large sector of the main conveyor fromthe raw sugar jetty to the weighhouse.    The company said it is not yet known how long the jettywill be out of use but it hoped that by tomorrow unloading ofthe bulk carrier Mykon Wave will be able to continue usingtemporary arrangements, Tate and Lyle said.    The Mykon Wave arrived in the port recently with about18,300 tonnes of bulk sugar from Maputo in Swaziland. About1,600 tonnes remain to be discharged.    Five other ships loaded with raw sugar are awaiting atSilvertown to be discharged, Tate and Lyle added. Reuter
GRAIN SHIPS WAITING AT NEW ORLEANS Ten grain ships were loading and 14were waiting to load at New Orleans elevators, trade sourcessaid. ELEVATOR                     LOADING  WAITING Continental Grain, Westwego     1      6 Mississippi River, Myrtle Grove 1      0 ADM Growmark                    1      4 Bunge Grain, Destrehan          1      0    ELEVATOR                LOADING  WAITING ST CHARLES DESTREHAN         1      1 RESERVE ELEVATOR CORP        1      0 PEAVEY CO, ST ELMO           1      0 CARGILL GRAIN, TERRE HAUTE   2      1 CARGILL GRAIN, PORT ALLEN    0      0 ZEN-NOH                      1      2 reuter
LONDON GRAIN FREIGHTS 27,000 long tonsUSG/Taiwan 23.25 dlrs fio five days/1,500 1-10/5 Continental.    Trade Banner - 30,000 long tons grain USG/Morocco 13.50dlrs 5,000/5,000 end-April/early-May Comanav.    Reference New York Grain Freights 1 of April 8, shipbrokers say the vessel fixed by Cam from the Great Lakes toAlgeria at 28 dlrs is reported to be the Vamand Wave.    Reference New York Grain Freights 2 of April 8, they saythe Cory Grain maize business from East London at 22 dlrs is toJapan and not to Spain as reported. Reuter
LONDON SUGAR FREIGHTS TBN 14,00 mt bulk sugarFiji/Prai 16 dlrs fio 10,000/1,000 1-10/5 Fiji Sugar Marketing.    TBN 15,000 mt bulk sugar Queensland/Japan 14.65 dlrs fio10,000/1,000 20-30/4 CSR.    ENQUIRIES - Antwerp/1-3 ports Greece 40,000 mt bagged sugarindications 750/750 in shipments of 10,000/15,000 tonnes spreadfrom May to July a/c unnamed charterer.    Inchon/India 12,600 mt bagged sugar 1,000/1,000 20/4-5/5a/c Kaines.    Reunion/1-2 ports Portugal 10,000 mt bulk sugar about 20dlrs 2,000/750 1-10/5 a/c French charterer. Reuter
LONDON GRAIN FREIGHT ENQUIRIES Antwerp/Libya 5,500 mt bagged flour 14daps 24-27/4.    New Orleans/Guanta 9,387 mt bulk hss 3,000/13 days25-4/5-5.    Naantali/Saudi Red Sea 30,000/35,000 mt barley 4,000/3,00020-30/4 or early May.    Dunkirk/Xingang 12,000 mt bagged flour 1,500/1,700 13-20/4.    Toledo/Seaforth 17,000 mt hss offers 18.50 dlrs fourdays/8,000 13-15/4.    River Plate/Malaysia 20,000/22,000 long tons hss2,000/2,000 Apr. Reuter
GRAIN SHIPS LOADING AT PORTLAND There were six grain ships loading andeight ships were waiting to load at Portland, according to thePortland Merchants Exchange.   Reuter
NAPA VALLEY BANCORP <NVBC> 1ST QTR NET Shr 20 cts vs 25 cts    Net 487,000 vs 435,000 Reuter
WINTERHALTER <WNTLC> HOLDERS OKAY TAKEOVER Winterhalter Inc said itsshareholders approved the 525,000 dlr acquisition ofWinterhalter by Interface Systems Inc <INTF>.    The acquisition would be for 15 cts per Winterhalter share. Reuter
AUSTRALIAN UNIONS AND NSW GOVERNMENT REACH DEAL Union and New South Wales governmentofficials have reached a compromise in a dispute over workerscompensation, averting increased industrial action in thestate, union sources said.    But some unions, including those of building and miningworkers, said they were dissatisfied with the deal and wouldcontinue their strikes for a few more days.    State officials said the government had agreed to reviseits proposals to cut compensation and would allow slightlyhigher cash benefits for injured workers.    Under the original proposal, which sparked strikes andother industrial action in the state on April 7, workers'compensation would have been cut by one third. Full details ofthe compromise package are not yet known.    The Labour Council, affiliated to the Australian Council ofTrade Unions (ACTU), had threatened to paralyse New South Walesunless the government modified its pending legislation on theissue.    State officials said the only sectors affected in the pastthree days were some government building projects, railwayfreight movement and cargo handling in Sydney's ports. REUTER
SOVIET TANKERS SET TO CARRY KUWAITI OIL Kuwait has agreed to charter tankersfrom the Soviet Union in a move to protect its oil exportsthrough the Mideast Gulf, diplomatic sources said.    They said the agreement followed months of talks with theSoviet Union and the U.S. On ways to secure its oil exportsafter Iran started to attack Kuwaiti-connected vessels inretaliation for Kuwait's backing for Iran's war enemy Iraq.    Diplomats said they expect three Soviet tankers initiallyto reinforce other flags already supporting Kuwait's 22-tankerfleet.    The diplomats said they knew of no deal for Moscow toprovide a naval escort for its own vessels, but "the idea ofprotection is implicit," one said.    They said Soviet cargo ships bound for Kuwait in the pastto unload arms and materiel for road delivery to Iraq wereknown to have sailed under escort. So far, none of the Sovietships are known to have been attacked by Iran. Diplomats saidthey expected the chartered Soviet tankers to sail betweenKuwait and Khor Fakkan on the United Arab Emirates (UAE) coasta short way outside the Strait of Hormuz at the mouth of theGulf. Reuter
DOCKERS' STRIKE HITS CANARY ISLAND PORT Striking dockers brought the CanaryIsland port of Las Palmas to a halt today but called off astoppage in Spain's main port of Barcelona after winning thereinstatement of a sacked worker, port officials said.    They said about 15 freighters were affected in Las Palmasas talks on dockers' demands to reinstate five workers went on.A stoppage was also called off in Santa Cruz, on Tenerife.    Union sources said the strike would continue in Las Palmastomorrow and would spread unless the demands were met, with astrike threatened in all ports for two hours on Thursday, fouron Friday, six on Saturday and every other hour from May 4-11. REUTER
JAPAN DOCK STRIKE TO CONTINUE OVER WEEKEND A strike by Japanese dockworkers willcontinue over the weekend as no breakthrough is in sight, aJapan Harbour Transportation Association spokesman said.    The association has not yet agreed on a schedule forpreliminary negotiations with the National Council of HarbourWorkers Unions, because the council insisted on talks withshippers as well as dock management, he said.    The strike, which began on Tuesday, halted containermovements to points inside Japan from the ports of Tokyo,Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe, Kitakyushu, Shimizu, Yokkaichiand Hakata. Reuter
IRAQ SAYS IT HIT TWO SHIPS IN GULF, DOWNS IRAN F-4 Iraq said its warplanes attacked twolarge naval targets -- Baghdad's usual term for oil tankers ormerchant ships -- in the Gulf today.    A military spokesman said the planes scored accurate andeffective hits in both attacks.    There was no immediate confirmation of the raids fromindependent shipping sources in the region.    The spokesman said during one of the attacks, Iraqi planesintercepted an Iranian F-4 Phantom and shot it down. All Iraqiwarplanes returned safely to base, he added. REUTER
SOVIET CORN CARGO REJECTED, RELOADING AT CHICAGO A cargo of U.S. corn for the SovietUnion was rejected and forced to be unloaded at a Chicagoexport elevator earlier this week after it failed to makegrade, with the British vessel Broompark now being reloaded, anelevator spokesman said.    The first attempt to load the ship failed when thepercentage of broken kernels proved to be higher than contractspecifications, he said.    The Soviets traditionally refuse to take sub-grade grain ata price discount, as is the practice with many other importingnations, he added.    The official estimated the reloading of the vessel withabout 700,000 tonnes of corn may be completed by Tuesday, April28. Reuter
TOP EXECUTIVE OF PAN OCEAN SHIPPING CHARGED South Korean prosecutors formally chargedthe chief executive of Pan Ocean Shipping Company, thecountry's largest shipping firm, with alleged financialoffences.    A statement from the prosecutors' office said charges ofillegal capital movement, violation of foreign exchange lawsand tax evasion were laid against Hahn Sang-yon, president ofthe hugely indebted company whose chairman, Park Ken-sek, fellto his death a week ago.    Prosecutors said that over the past six years Hahn and Parkillegally sent abroad more than 15 mln dlrs.    The prosecutors said that the two executives used more than2.7 mln dlrs of the diverted funds to acquire U.S. Real estate.The Office of National Tax Administration has sent bankingexperts to the United States to investigate.    Park plunged to his death from his 10th floor office windowon April 19.    Finance Minister Chung In-young last week ordered thestate-owned Korea Exchange Bank to take over Pan Ocean,burdened by debts of more than 1,000 billion won. REUTER
TOWNSEND FERRY INQUIRY TOLD BOW DOORS TO BLAME The Zeebrugge ferry disaster, in whicharound 200 people drowned seven weeks ago, was almost certainlycaused by the ship leaving port with its bow doors wide open, aBritish government inquiry was told.    Lawyer David Steel, representing the government, told theopening session of a public inquiry into the March 6 tragedythat this was "the only tenable explanation."    The ferry, the Herald of Free Enterprise, is owned byTownsend Thoresen, part of P and O's <PORL.L> subsidiaryEuropean Ferries Group.    Steel, commissioner of wrecks for England and Wales, saidthe inquiry would probably conclude that the ferry capsized incalm seas and fair weather a mile outside the Belgian port whenwater poured into the car deck.    "We think you will also conclude that the immediate cause ofthat was that the doors were open, he said.    Steel told the tribunal it appeared no attempt was made toclose either the inner or outer bow doors prior to what shouldhave been a routine voyage to the English port of Dover,despite a provision in the ship's "Stability Booklet" that thedoors were to be closed and kept closed. Reuter
GENERAL DYNAMICS <GD> NAMED AS DEFENDANT General Dynamics Corp was named as adefendant in a multimillion dlr fraud suit brought by the U.S.government in 1985 stemming from government subsidizedshipbuilding contracts, according to court documents.    The government originally filed the suit against two ofDynamic's officers and two officers of its subcontractor,Frigitemp Corp. The suit, filed in federal court in New York,seeks to reclaim funds from kickbacks, overpayments andsubsidies that were allegedly overexpended on two shipbuildingprojects. The government paid 70 mln dlrs in subsidies between1978 and 1982, court papers said. Reuter
GREEK BULK ORE CARRIER AGROUND IN ORINOCO RIVER A Greek bulk carrier loaded with ironore has run aground in Venezuela's Orinoco river, Lloyd'sshipping services reports.    The 74,596-dwt Andromachi is reported to have run agroundnear mile 149 on Monday and attempts to refloat the vesselusing tugs has so far been unsuccessful, Lloyd's said.    The Andromachi is managed by Theodore and AngelosEfstathiou of Piraeus. Reuter
IRAQ REPORTS MERCHANT SHIP HIT IN THE GULF Iraqi warplanes attacked and hit alarge "naval target" -- Baghdad's term for a tanker or merchantvessel -- in the Gulf today, an Iraqi military spokesman said.    He said the raid took place off the Iranian coast at 0600gmt and all aircraft returned safely to base.    Lloyds Shipping Intelligence earlier today said the Greekbulk carrier Pamit, 84,137 tonnes dw, was attacked and hit inthe engine room this morning in the northern Gulf.    It said all the crew were safe and tugs were heading to aidthe ship. Reuter
SPANISH PORT STRIKE BY 60 PCT OF WORKERS Some 60 pct of 6,300 employees atSpain's 27 major ports have supported a strike since Monday insupport of wage negotiations, a spokesman for the Public WorksMinistry said.    He said, however, that the stoppage has had no effect inBarcelona, Bilbao, Las Palmas and Pasajes and that mandatoryminimum services in other ports allowed perishable goods to behandled.    The strike is due to continue tomorrow with work resumingon Friday. Reuter
DEVCON INTERNATIONAL <DEVC.O> GETS CONTRACT Devcon International Corpsaid it has received a 13.5 mln dlr contract from thegovernment of Antigua for harbor dredging and construction of adeepwater pier at St. John's, with completion expected withintwo years.    It said work will start immediately. Reuter
IRAN'S NAVY CHIEF THREATENS GULF CLOSURE Iran's navy commander warned that Iranwould close off the Strait of Hormuz, entrance to the Gulf, ifthere was any disruption to its shipping or sea-bound trade,Tehran radio said.    Commodore Mohammed Hoseyn Malekzadegan told a newsconference Iran was ready to maintain security in the Gulf.    But he added "If there is any disruption in the movement ofour ships and our imports and exports, this waterway would notbe left open for any country."    The radio, monitored by the British BroadcastingCorporation, quoted Malekzadegan as saying Iran's navy now hadthe most advanced defensive equipment, including long-rangeshore- to-sea missiles and a range of sea-to-sea missiles.    He said it had also expanded operations to cover the wholeregion "from the most northerly point in the Persian Gulf to themost southerly part of the Sea of Oman."    Referring to U.S. fleet movements in and near the Gulf,Malekzadegan said they had so far not been directed againstIran's interests.    "Their movements have been on the basis of internationalregulations and in the open seas," the radio quoted him assaying. "However, if any movement or action is carried outagainst the interests of the Islamic Republic of Iran inwhatever context, we shall decisively confront that move." Reuter
IRAN SAYS IT WILL COMBAT GULF INTERVENTION Iranian foreign minister Ali AkbarVelayati warned that Iran would combat any superpowerintervention in the Gulf.    "Iran, which is the most powerful (country) in the Gulf...Will not allow the superpowers or any other foreign forces tointerfere in the region," he said.    Velayati, visiting the United Arab Emirates on the firstleg of a Gulf tour, told reporters Iran had the "capabilitiesand means" to prevent any interference. President Reagan haspledged to keep the Gulf sealanes open and to protect Kuwaititankers from possible Iranian attack. REUTER
MOSCOW SAYS WILL RETALIATE AGAINST GULF ATTACKS Any Iranian attack on Soviet ships in theGulf will bring a forceful and violent response, a Sovietforeign ministry official said in an interview published here.    Alexander Ivanov, head of the Gulf desk at the SovietForeign Ministry, told Al-Rai al-Aam newspaper Moscow "willanswer back with force and violence if Iran attempts to attackany Soviet ship or tanker in the Gulf." A Soviet tanker hit amine in the Gulf last month.    Ivanov also accused the United States of stepping up theregional crisis and of failing to exert genuine efforts to endthe Iran-Iraq war. REUTER
GAS CARRIER ESCAPED GULF ATTACK LAST WEEK - LLOYDS The Panamanian liquified gas carrierNyhammer, 48,772 dwt, was attacked by an Iranian gunboat on May24, Lloyds Shipping Intelligence said.    One rocket was fired but missed.    The vessel subsequently arrived at its destination of RasTanura on May 25 and left this morning. REUTER
REAGAN HINTS U.S. WANTS HELP IN PATROLLING GULF President Reagan said he would discussthe Mideast Gulf situation with allied leaders at next week'sVenice economic summit and hinted he would seek their help inpreserving free navigation.    In a speech prepared for delivery as the United States madeplans to protect 11 Kuwaiti oil tankers from Iranian attack,Reagan said the American people were aware that "it is not ourinterests alone that are being protected."    Saying that allied dependence on gulf oil was no secret,Reagan declared, "During the upcoming summit in Venice, we willbe discussing the common security interests shared by thewestern democracies in the MIDEAST Gulf.    "The future belongs to the brave. Free men should not cowerbefore such challenges, and they should not expect to standalone."    Reagan will meet the leaders of Britain, France, WestGermany, Italy, Canada and Japan at the economic summit, whichwill take place in Venice June 8-10.       The 13th annual top-level meeting of the major industrialdemocracies will take place against a backdrop of risingcongressional concern over Reagan's plan to protect gulfshipping and demands that the allies do more.     These concerns were heightened by the May 17 Iraqi missileattack on the U.S. frigate Stark which killed 37 seamen.    "They died while guarding a chokepoint of freedom, deterringaggression and reaffirming America's willingness to protect itsvital interests," Reagan said.       In a pre-summit speech celebrating the 40th anniversary ofthe Marshall Plan, Reagan, who spoke to an audience of foreignaffairs experts, also pledged to push for economic expansion byWest Germany and Japan to bolster the world trading system.    "While the vibrancy of the U.S. economy has contributedenormously to the world expansion, preserving a growing worldeconomy is the business of every member of the world tradingcommunity," he said.       "It will be made clear, especially to our friends in Japanand the Federal Republic of Germany, that growth-orienteddomestic policies are needed to bolster the world tradingsystem on which they depend."    Reagan coupled this appeal with a call for compliance withallied accords on exchange rate stability.    "Economic policy decisions made last year in Tokyo and atthis year's meetings of Group of Seven finance ministers inParis and in Washington cannot be ignored or forgotten," hesaid. "The commitments made at these meetings need to betranslated into action." Reuter
JAPAN READY TO USE DIPLOMACY FOR GULF SECURITY Japan was ready to use diplomacy to helpmaintain the security of the Gulf, Prime Minister YasuhiroNakasone said.    But he told reporters Japan should not cut its lines ofcommunication with Iran and Iraq because its policy was to takea broad political stance. Officials of the foreign ministrysaid Japan had maintained good relations with both Iran andIraq, which have been at war since September 1980.    Last week Nakasone ruled out Japanese military or financialhelp to patrol the waters of the Gulf. About 60 pct of Japan'scrude oil passes through the waterway.    President Reagan said yesterday the threat to oil routes inthe Gulf from attacks by Iran and Iraq was high on the agendafor next week's G-7 summit in Venice.    Reagan has approved plans for the United States to step upits naval presence in the Gulf despite congressionalexpressions of concern and he has called on U.S. Allies to helpmaintain freedom of navigation.    Japan's constitution prevents its armed forces from beingdeployed overseas. Nakasone has said that Washingtonunderstands this problem. REUTER
KUWAIT REJECTS IRANIAN SPY BOAT CHARGES Kuwait, a target of Iranian anger over theemirate's backing for Iraq in the Gulf war, today rejectedcharges that fishing vessels seized recently by Iran were spyboats.    "There are no bases of truth to the contents of the Iranianaccusation on the nature of the operations of the vesselsrecently taken into custody by Iran. These vessels were outfishing," the Foreign Ministry said in a statement.    It said Iranian Charge d'Affaires Mohammad Baqeri wassummoned by the Ministry yesterday to confer with ForeignUndersecretary Suleiman Majed al-Shaheen.    The Iranian News Agency IRNA said on Sunday Iran had seizedseven Kuwaiti speed boats and detained their crew, whoconfessed to spying for Iraq under the cover of fishing.    It said the boats were intercepted in the Khur Abdullahwaterway which separates Kuwait and Iraq's Faw peninsula at thehead of the Gulf, captured by Iran last year.    The Kuwaiti response came as Iranian envoys toured GulfArab states saying responsibility for security and stability inthe waterway was a regional matter. A U.S. Senate team wasscheduled today to meet Kuwait's Crown Prince and PrimeMinister Sheikh Saad al-Abdulla al-Sabah and the defence andoil ministers.    Today's Foreign Ministry statement, carried by the KuwaitNews Agency KUNA, said the recent detention of Kuwaiti fishingvessels by Iran was not the first.    Tehran in the past had held back a number of vessels Kuwaithad sought to release through diplomatic contacts, it said.    "However, Kuwait is perplexed that this time the Iraniancharges are accompanied by accusations that the vessels wereundertaking espionage activities," it said.    Shaheen condemned the detentions and accusations, and askedTehran to free all fishing boats and sailors held by Iran, thestatement said. REUTER
SHIP PREPARES TO LOAD WHEAT FOR FIJI AT GEELONG The French ship Capitaine Wallis, 13,847dwt, berthed at the port of Geelong in Victoria today to load8,000 tonnes of urgently needed wheat for Fiji after Australianport unions partly lifted a trade embargo, shipping sourcessaid.    The wheat is expected to be loaded tomorrow, an AustralianWheat Board spokesman said. Reuter
COLOMBO TO DEFEND WATERS, INDIA READIES FLOTILLA Sri Lanka today ordered its armed forcesto defend the island's territorial waters as India prepared tosend a flotilla with relief supplies that Colombo says it doesnot want for the Tamils in the Jaffna peninsula.    The sudden crisis between Sri Lanka and its giant neighbourdeepened as Prime Minister Ranasinghe Premadasa toldparliament: "We have our territorial limits and nobody can beallowed to trespass there ...    "President (Junius) Jayewardene has ordered the army, navyand air force to protect the island and its territorial waters,"Premadasa said to a round of applause from the house.    In New Delhi an Indian spokesman said the plan to send aflotilla of 20 small unarmed boats with Red Cross supplies toJaffna tomorrow would go ahead despite Colombo's objections.    The confrontation was the latest result of the long andbitter conflict between Sri Lanka's Buddhist Sinhalese majorityand the Hindu Tamil minority, which has strong ethnic andcultural links with India's 50 mln Tamils. Reuter
TIGHT FAR EAST FREIGHT SPACE HITS SUGAR MARKET The Far Eastern sugar market is being hitby a tightening in available nearby freight space needed tomove raw sugar to various destinations, notably from Thailand,traders said.    This has resulted in a hardening of freight rates in thoseareas. These are now being quoted between 12.5 and 17.5 dlrs atonne per day, depending on shipment and destination, againstrecent fixings below 12 dlrs a tonne.    Charterers are considering combining contracted shipmentsbecause of inadequate space, shipping sources said, noting 13raws cargoes are awaiting shipment from various ports.    A cargo of Thai raw sugar was reported traded at basis JulyNew York futures less 25 points for June/July 15 shipment,traders said. But others said this was old business. Reuter
NEED FOR BIGGER ALLIED FORCE IN GULF PLAYED DOWN Secretary of State George Shultz saidtoday that a boost in allied forces in the Mideast Gulf was notvital to protect shipping against attack but that possibleallied contributions should be examined.    Asked if he saw the need for a greater military presence bythe allies in the gulf, Shultz told reporters, "Not necessarily,particularly, so."    But he said an adequate force was needed to deter attackand noted that the British and the French, as well as theUnited States, maintained naval contingents there.    "We have to look at things that others might do," he said. Reuter
OVERSEAS <OSG> SEES OPEC QUOTAS KEY TO RATES Overseas Shipholding Group Inc presidentMorton Hyman said if oil production by OPEC rises during thesecond half of 1987, freight rates for tankers should riseaccordingly.    Hyman, delivering a speech at the annual shareholdersmeeting, said international tanker markets were generally weakthroughout the first quarter, but since the end of March OPECoil production has picked up. The result has been a modestimprovement in tanker rates.    Overseas said 73 pct of its fleet handles liquid cargo.       He said tanker requirements decreased in September 1986 asOPEC production quotas dropped and levels of oil stocks rose.    For the first quarter 1987, the company reported net incomeof 10.3 mln dlrs, or 40 cts per share, compared to 9.3 mlndlrs, or 36 cts per share, for the comparable quarter a yearago.    The company reported net income for 1986 of 37.3 mln dlrs,or 1.45 dlrs per share.       "The improvement in the company's 1986 results, after fouryears of declining earnings, reflects a sharp, albeittemporary, rise in freight rates in the international tankermarkets last summer," Hyman said.    He said the Alaskan oil trade continues to be the principalsource of employment for its U.S. flag tanker fleet, whichrepresents approximately 15 pct of the company's tonnage.    Overseas owns and operates 67 vessels. Reuter
U.S. TO PROTECT ONLY AMERICAN SHIPS U.S. military forces in the MideastGulf are under orders to protect only American flag vessels andoccasional U.S. arms deliveries on other ships to"non-belligerent" states in the area, the Pentagon said today.    "No one has ever stated or supported a policy of protectingall shipping in those waters," Pentagon spokesman Bob Sims saidas the Reagan Administration drew up plans to increase theprotective U.S. military presence in the gulf.    Sims denied published reports that U.S. Defense SecretaryCaspar Weinberger sought air cover to protect all neutralshipping in the western gulf from attacks by Iran and Iraq.    "As we have said repeatedly, only American flag vessels areunder our protection with the exception, on a limitedcase-by-case basis, of ships carrying our Foreign MilitarySales equipment to friendly, non-belligerent states in theregion," Sims said.    U.S. warships in the gulf two weeks ago protected a Kuwaitiship which sailed to Bahrain with U.S. arms for Bahrain andKuwait. But Sims said Washington had received assurances thatthe the arms would not be used elsewhere.    He said Kuwait, which is turning 11 oil tankers over toU.S. firms to fly the American flag and be protected by theU.S. warships, is not considered a belligerent despite Iraniancharges that Kuwait is supporting Iraq in the gulf war.    Kuwaiti tankers have come under repeated Iranian attack.    Sims refused to say how the United States will beef up itsseven-ship Middle East Task Force in the gulf to protect the 11Kuaiti tankers. But Pentagon officials said that additionalships and air cover are under consideration. Reuter
U.S. HOUSE PASSES GULF BILL DESPITE OPPOSITION The U.S. House of Representatives approved a bill that requires the Reagan administration toprovide Congress with a report on its Gulf policy but does notplace any restrictions on its actions.    The bill passed 305-102 -- winning a necessary two-thirdsof those voting -- despite a last-minute revolt by an allianceof liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans who sought todefeat it as a signal that a growing number of legislatorsoppose President Reagan's policies in the region.    The legislation was passed in the wake of the May 17thIraqi missile attack on the U.S. frigate Stark in the Gulf,which killed 37 Americans, and Reagan's decision to protect 11Kuwaiti oil tankers by putting them under U.S. flags --effectively making them American ships.    The legislation -- supported by Congress' Democratic andRepublican leadership as well as by the administration --required Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger to provide areport to Congress, within seven days of enactment, on plans toprotect U.S. warships and flag ships in the Persian Gulf.    It did not, however, place any restrictions on theadministration as it proceeds to reflag the Kuwaiti ships andthus has no immediate effect on U.S. policy.    The Senate was expected to approve the legislation thisweek. The bill would then be sent to Reagan for signature.    Supporters of the bill said passage of the bill was only afirst step toward a greater congressional involvement informulating policy.    But Democratic critics said the bill did not ask theadministration to address tough policy questions in the report. Reuter
U.S. SENATE TEAM WANTS MULTINATIONAL GULF FORCE The leaders of a U.S. Senate team probingAmerican defense strategy in the MidEast Gulf said they favoreda multinational force to keep oil flowing through the waterway.    Sen. John Glenn and John Warner, in Kuwait as part of aGulf Arab tour, said at a news conference that top officials inthe area appeared ready to discuss extra facilities needed ifthe U.S. upgraded its defense role.    The Senate team next heads for the United Arab Emirates,their last stop on a fact-finding mission prompted by Reaganadministration plans to let half of Kuwait's 22-tanker fleetfly the U.S. flag.    Glenn and Warner said the U.S., Britain and France, shouldexplore the possibility of a unified Gulf force.    "The American ships, the British ships, the French ships nowtalk to each other and all we've got to do is formalize thisarrangement," Warner said.    Glenn said a multinational force could be effectivelydeployed within 24 hours of a decision.    Glenn voiced a preference for a United Nationsmultinational force, or failing that, an American, British,French force with cooperation from the Gulf Arab states.    Warner voiced concern that the Soviet Union might use thesituation in the Gulf to raise its presence. "And,unequivocally, all GCC states we have talked with, have saidthat would not be in the interests of the Arabian peninsula." Reuter
EC WATCHING GULF WAR DEVELOPMENTS The European Community (EC) shouldwatch very carefully for any developments in the Gulf War andtheir consequences on the oil market, EC Energy CommissionerNicolas Mosar said today.    Speaking two weeks after a U.S. warship was attacked in theGulf, Mosar warned, "An escalation in the Gulf would increasetensions in the oil market."    "But I do not want to be alarmist," he told a news conferenceafter an EC energy ministers meeting in Luxembourg.    He said the volume of EC oil imports from the Gulf haddeclined to around 31 pct of total oil imports in the firstthree months of 1987 against 35 pct in the same period lastyear. "There are also other potential sources of supplies in theworld," he added.    The issue of Gulf oil imports was not discussed at theministers' meeting, he added.    A EC committee of national experts in the so-called oilsupply group would discuss Gulf oil supplies at their bi-annualmeeting on June 19, he said.    But any major decisions would have to be reserved for ECforeign ministers, diplomats said.    West European nations have so far shown little enthusiasmfor backing a U.S. plan to give military protection to merchantships in the Gulf which could help insure the safety of oilsupplies. Reuter
U.S. HOUSE PASSES MIDEAST GULF BILL The House today approved a billrequiring the Reagan administration to report to Congress onits Mideast Gulf policy but not restricting its actions.    The vote in favor was despite a last-minute revolt by analliance of liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans whosought to defeat it as a signal that a growing number oflegislators oppose President Reagan's policies in the region.    In the Senate, a leading Republican senator, former SenateAppropriations Committee Chairman Mark Hatfield of Oregon, saidhe would try to prevent consideration of the bill.    He said he will put a so-called "hold" on the bill until hefinds out whether the War Powers Act applies to protectingKuwaiti tankers.    Congressional leaders complain they were not consultedabout plans to put the U.S. flag on Kuwaiti ships and somecharged the policy could lead the U.S. into the Iran-Iraq war.    Conservative Republicans said increasing the U.S. militaryobligation in the gulf would place impossible burdens onAmerican servicemen and equipment, and warned it could lead towar.    "It is a real snake pit at best and a powder keg that willblow sky-high at worst," said Wisconsin Rep. Toby Roth.    Reuter
BLOCKED RHINE NAVIGATION CHANNEL REMAINS CLOSED The main navigation channel of theRhine, blocked by two sunken boats, will remain closed at leastuntil the beginning of next week, a water authority spokesmansaid today.    Karlsruhe water authorities said a queue of about 70 shipshad formed between the towns of Speyer and Iffezheim but mostshipping companies had unloaded cargoes and were usingalternative means of transport.    Heinz-Josef Recker, of the Mannheim water authority, saidtwo floating cranes would make a fresh attempt to raise thesunken tug and its lighter after an unsuccessful try on Friday.The tug Orinoko hit a railway bridge last Tuesday and sank witha cargo of 3,500 tonnes of gravel on board. Before theaccident, about 100 ships a day sailed under the bridge. Reuter
W GERMAN SHIP HIT DURING WARSAW PACT WAR GAMES A West German navy ship was accidentallyhit today by artillery shells from a Warsaw Pact vessel in theBaltic Sea and three sailors were injured, the Defence Ministrysaid.    The ship, the Tender Neckar, was struck while watchingWarsaw Pact exercises in the Baltic Sea, a ministry spokesmansaid.    He could not say what condition the men were in or whichcountry owned the ship which fired the shots. The spokesmansaid West Germany believed the incident was accidental. Reuter
REAGAN SENDS KUWAITI PLAN TO CONGRESS President Reagan today sent aclassified report to Congress on his plan to protect Kuwaitioil tankers with U.S. military escorts.    Congressional officials said the report, received by HouseSpeaker Jim Wright and Senate majority leader Robert Byrd, willnot be made public.    Congress has demanded a detailed security plan on how U.S.warships and servicemen would be protected from possible attackin the Gulf region, scene of the prolonged war between Iran andIraq.    White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said theAdministration intended to push ahead with the plan despitestrong opposition in Congress.    He said the report to Congress provided a comprehensiveoverview of Administration strategy in the Gulf, adding themilitary escort plan would begin "when the President wassatisfied that all preparations had been completedsatisfactorily".    Fitzwater did not say when this might be, but denied theprotection plan was being held up. Reuter
PANAMA CANAL UNAFFECTED BY POLITICAL PROTEST The Panama Canal, one of the world'skey maritime crossroads, has not been affected by the recentanti-government protests here, a spokesman for theU.S.-government agency that operates the waterway said.    "Everything's normal here. It (the canal) is runningefficiently and everything is going well," said Anel Beliz,spokesman for the Panama Canal Commission.    The commission was monitoring the situation andcontingencies exist to ensure continued operation, he said.Unconfirmed reports said several shipping lines had orderedtheir vessels away from Panama until further notice. REUTER
MITSUBISHI HEAVY BUILDS ENERGY-SAVING TANKER Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd <MITH.T>said it began building the world's most advanced energy-savingtanker, which consumes only 48 tonnes of fuel oil a day.    Construction of the 258,000 dwt VLCC (very large crudecarrier) Nisseki Maru for <Tokyo Tanker Co Ltd>, a shipping armof Nippon Oil Co Ltd <NPOL.T>, is expected to be completed inApril 1988. It would run on the Japan/Gulf route, a companystatement said.    The statement gave no other details.    Mitsubishi Heavy last year finished building a vlcc ofsimilar size, but which consumed 57 tonnes of fuel a day. REUTER
JAPAN FOREIGN SHIPBUILDING ORDERS FALL IN MAY New foreign shipbuilding orders receivedby Japanese yards in May fell to five vessels totalling 188,900gross tons (gt) from eight ships of 314,000 gt in April,against four ships of 104,500 gt a year earlier, the Japan ShipExporters Association said.    The backlog of orders at end-May was 122 ships of 3.70 mlngt against 125 ships of 3.73 mln at end-April and 233 ships of5.99 mln a year ago, an association official said.    The world shipping recession and the yen's appreciationagainst the dollar depressed May orders, he said. REUTER
ARAB HEAVY TERM CRUDE SUPPLIES TO JAPAN UP IN JULY <Aramco Corp> has accepted Japanesenominations to lift a higher proportion of Arab Heavy crude oilunder term contracts in July, oil industry sources said.    Japanese companies requested a ratio of 80 pct Arab Heavyto 20 pct Arab Light under a term contract agreement withAramco for 100,000 barrels per day, the sources said. Thecontractual ratio is 30 pct heavy crude to 70 pct light.    Japanese demand for heavy crude oil has increasedsubstantially since the All Japan Seaman's Union ceased sailinginto the northern Mideast gulf last month, causing problemswith liftings of heavy Kuwait and Khafji crudes. REUTER
VESSEL LOST IN PACIFIC WAS CARRYING LEAD The 37,635 deadweight tonnes bulk carrierCumberlande, which sank in the South Pacific last Friday, wascarrying a cargo which included lead as well as magnesium ore,a Lloyds Shipping Intelligence spokesman said.    He was unable to confirm the tonnages involved.    Trade reports circulating the London Metal Exchange saidthe vessel, en route to New Orleans from Newcastle, New SouthWales, had been carrying 10,000 tonnes of lead concentrates.Traders said this pushed lead prices higher in early morningtrading as the market is currently sensitive to any fundamentalnews due to its finely balanced supply/demand position and lowstocks.    Trade sources said that 10,000 tonnes of lead concentratescould convert to around 5,000 tonnes of metal, although thisdepended on the quality of the concentrates.    A loss of this size could cause a gap in the supplypipeline, particularly in North America, they noted. Suppliesthere have been very tight this year and there is a strike atone major producer, Cominco, and labour talks currently beingheld at another, Noranda subsidiary Brunswick Mining andSmelting Ltd. REUTER
RIO DE JANEIRO DOCKERS STRIKE OVER WAGES Rio de Janeiro's 3,500dockworkers went on strike for an indefinite period today todemand wage increases, a spokesman for the dockers said.    The Rio dockers did not get support from their colleaguesin Santos, Brazil's main port, but the spokesman said theywould not return to work unless their demands were met.    Earlier this week, some 65,000 dockworkers cancelled ascheduled national strike to pressure port officials to givethem a wage increase and other benefits.    A Rio port spokesman said the halt would cause daily lossesof about 100,000 U.S. dlrs. Reuter
RIO DE JANEIRO DOCKERS STRIKE Rio de Janeiro's 3,500dockworkers went on strike for an indefinite period today todemand wage increases, a spokesman for the dockers said.    The Rio dockers did not get support from their colleaguesin Santos, Brazil's main port, but the spokesman said theywould not return to work unless their demands were met.    Earlier this week, some 65,000 dockworkers cancelled ascheduled national strike to pressure port officials to givethem a wage increase and other benefits.    A Rio port spokesman said the halt would cause daily lossesof about 100,000 U.S. Dlrs. Reuter
BANGLADESH NAVY UNLOADS GRAINS DURING PORT STRIKE The navy is unloadingfoodgrains at Chittagong port following a strike by nearly1,000 dockworkers, Bangladesh Shipping Corp officials said.    The navy was unloading 74,000 tonnes of foodgrains from twoships today, and four vessels laden with some 90,000 tonnes ofgrains were waiting at the outer anchorage, port officialssaid.    A spokesman for the workers said they would continue theirstrike until authorities agree to their demands for higher payand other benefits. The strike began on June 11.    "Unloading of grains and other essential commodities startednormally after we called in navy personnel to help," a portofficial told Reuters.    "The strike has caused no serious dislocation," he said.    The government meanwhile declared the port jobs an"essential service" and said the strikers could be dismissedunless they end the strike soon. REUTER
TAIWAN'S EVERGREEN LINE TO GO PUBLIC Liner shipping specialist <EvergreenMarine Corp>, Taiwan's largest private company, has applied tothe Security and Exchange Commission to go public next month, acompany spokeswoman told Reuters.    She said Evergreen had doubled its capital to eight billionTaiwan dlrs since last August.    "The capital increase will boost our operations," she said.    She said Evergreen will use the funds raised from the stockmarket to buy new ships and step up its global services.    The spokeswoman said the company posted an after-tax profitof more than one billion dlrs last year on total revenues of20.46 billion, compared to an after-tax profit of 1.18 billionon revenues of 17.99 billion in 1985.    Evergreen has placed newbuilding orders for three 3,428-teu(twenty-foot equivalent unit) fully cellular container shipswith the state-owned <China Shipbuilding Corp> for delivery inlate 1988.    Evergreen has a fleet of 66 container vessels, totallingmore than two mln dwt, the spokeswoman said. REUTER
BELGIAN ONE-DAY STRIKE HITS TRANSPORT, SHIPPING A 24-hour strike by Belgian publicemployees protesting against a government pay offer disruptedtransport and hit ferry services and shipping, port and unionofficials said.    Some cross-Channel ferry services from Ostend werecancelled, the local news agency Belga said.    An Antwerp port authority spokesman said electricians cameout in support, reducing ship movements to a trickle. Unionssaid Ghent and other major Belgian ports were also hit.    Few trains were running and some early morning flights bySabena, Belgian's national airline, were cancelled. Reuter
CHINA RESUMES USSR SHIP REPAIRS AFTER 23 YEAR GAP China has resumed repairs of Soviet shipsafter a 23 year break caused by the ideological split betweenthe two countries.    The New China News Agency said an agreement to resume thebusiness was signed by the two sides on Wednesday in Shanghai,where three Soviet commercial vessels were being repaired.    The China Daily said the first two Soviet ships to berepaired in China since 1964 left the ports of Dalian andXingang last month.    Bi Yueran, managing director of China State ShipbuildingCorp's ship repair department, told the newspaper the SovietUnion lacked adequate repair facilities for the more than 600ships deployed in the far east. Bi said China's yards offeredcompetitive prices, guaranteed quality and prompt delivery. Reuter
HIGH WATER EXTENDS RHINE RIVER BLOCKAGE Rising water levels on the Rhine caused byheavy rain are delaying an operation near Karlsruhe to raisetwo sunken boats which have blocked the river's main navigationchannel since early last week, a Karlsruhe water authorityspokesman said.    He said two floating cranes were unable to begin liftingthe sunken tug Orinoko and its lighter because the water levelhad reached 815 centimetres and was forecast to rise to 820-830cm by tomorrow. He was unable to say when the operation mightbegin.    Meanwhile, high water at Cologne has forced vessels totravel at reduced speed, a water authority spokesman in Colognesaid. But a water authority spokesman in Duisburg, 60 kms northof Cologne, said vessels there were moving normally. Reuter
RHINE BLOCKED FOR THREE MORE WEEKS - SALVAGER Dutch salvage firm Smit-Tak said itmay take some three weeks to lift the Swiss tug Orinoko and itslighter Pavo which sank 10 days ago at Karlsruhe in WestGermany, blocking the Rhine river.    Smit-Tak, which with its West German subsidiary HarmsBergung GmbH was commissioned by the local water authorities toraise the vessels, said its lifting fleet was in position anddivers had made the first inspection.    Smit is still preparing its final salvage plan and said thework would begin on Sunday. Reuter
KUWAIT SEEN WANTING TO LEASE SOME U.S. TANKERS The United States said Kuwait wasdiscussing plans to lease privately-owned U.S. tankers totransport oil through the Gulf in addition to putting some ofits own vessels under American flags.    State Department spokeswoman Phyllis Oakley, who made thedisclosure about the tankers, also told reporters the UnitedStates expects to conclude very soon a favorable arrangementwith Saudi Arabia concerning expanded security cooperation inthe Gulf. The two developments occur as the Reaganadministration continued to come under fire in Congress for itsplans to bring 11 Kuwaiti tankers under American flags.    The move is designed to protect the tankers from Iranianattacks and ensure freedom of navigation in the strategicwaterway but has raised fears on Capitol Hill that it will drawthe United States into the seven-year-old Iran-Iraq War.    "The Kuwaitis have discussed the possibility of charteringU.S. flag vessels with the Maritime Administration," Oakleysaid. She emphasized, however, that "if some charter arrangementcould be worked out, it would not supplant the reflaggingarrangement that we worked out with the Kuwaitis."    In both cases, the ships would be eligible for U.S. Navyescort in the Gulf, she said.   The Washington Post today quoted John Gaughan, administratorof the Martime Administration, as saying Kuwait has approachedan American shipping company about the possibility of acharter.    Gaughan said that earlier this week he told representativesof the company, whose identify he did not know, that charteredvessels flying the U.S. flag "would be protected," the newspaperreported.    Concerning Saudi Arabia, Oakley said "we are moving forwardin our talks ... on how we can tailor our efforts and securitycooperation to facilitate our Gulf operations." Reuter
KUWAIT SAYS IT HAS FULL GULF ARAB SUPPORT Kuwait, whose shipping has come underrepeated attack by Iran, has the full support of Saudi Arabiaand other Gulf allies, a senior government official said.    Cabinet spokesman Abdul-Aziz al-Otaibi, quoted by theKuwaiti news agency KUNA yesterday, said Foreign MinisterSheikh Sabah al-Ahmed al-Sabah had told cabinet he had found"complete support...At this delicate phase" during visits to GulfCooperation Council (GCC) states.    The GCC, an economic and military alliance which hasgenerally supported Iraq over Iran, comprises Bahrain, Kuwait,Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. REUTER
CHANCES OF DIRECT U.S.-IRAN GULF CLASH SEEN LOW U.S. moves to increase its warships inand around the Mideast Gulf could trigger more attacks onunprotected merchant ships but run little risk of sparking adirect military clash with Iran, diplomats said.    They said the American decision inevitably carries somerisk of armed confrontation, but Iran -- despite its bluntrhetoric -- would want to avoid this as much as Washington.    "As Iran knows very well, what America is bringing into theGulf could do serious damage," said one western diplomat.    Diplomats see the greatest potential danger in more attackson "soft targets" such as merchant shipping not protected byAmerican or other western navy vessels patrolling the Gulf.    The risk of Iranian attack on U.S. Warships or Kuwaiti oiltankers carrying the U.S. Flag and under naval escort is ratedby diplomats as low. However, "There is the threat that theIranians, seeing these heavily protected U.S.-flag tankers,will go for softer targets," one diplomat said.    Tehran Radio quoted Iran's top defence spokesman Ali AkbarHashemi Rafsanjani as saying yesterday that Washington was"moving to the brink of an armed encounter with us."    The U.S. is increasing its Gulf fleet from seven to 10warships and sending the refurbished battleship Missouri topatrol just outside the Strait of Hormuz.    The build-up ties in with U.S. plans to start escortingKuwaiti oil tankers next month, which have been re-registeredto fly the American flag to give them naval protection.    Shipping serving Kuwait has come under repeated attack byIran, angered at the emirate's war backing of Iraq.    Concern in the region has mounted over the threat posed byChinese-made Silkworm missiles, which the U.S. says Iran ispreparing to deploy near the Strait of Hormuz.    The Missouri, with its four-escort flotilla, is likely tomake Iran think twice about using the missiles, diplomats said.    A military source in the Gulf has said Iran also set up alaunching site for the Silkworms on captured Iraqi soil in theFaw peninsula, within range of Kuwait.    "But anything that went as far as a direct attack on Kuwaititerritory would be a very serious escalation" likely movingworld opinion against Iran, remarked one.    Some diplomats believe Iran could also consider carryingout reprisals against the United States outside the Gulf.    Rafsanjani, who is also parliamentary leader, predictedlast Friday "a river of blood" throughout the world in the eventof any U.S. strike against Iran.    Western diplomats said Iran, which Washington has accusedof being behind state-sponsored terrorism, had no demonstrablecapacity to carry out attacks in the U.S. itself.    Diplomats saw few potential targets in Lebanon now thatmost Americans have left in the wake of kidnappings linked topro-Iranian groups. But Europe and Asia were potentialtrouble-spots, and Kuwait was one of the most obvious targets.    Any backlash was likely to take the form of sabotage orother action to make it difficult to blame Iran, they added. Reuter
U.S. REASSERTS PLANS FOR DETERRENT ROLE IN GULF The United States responded to anapparent escalation of Iranian rhetoric with continuedassurances that its expanded military force in the Gulf wouldplay purely a deterrent role.    "I can only emphasize that our role there is deterrent, thatwe're going to be assuring safety for American shipping andthat that shipping is not related to the war itself," StateDepartment spokesman Charles Redman told reporters.    He was asked about Iranian claims that the United Stateswas moving towards the brink of armed conflict with Iran.    Tehran Radio quoted defence spokesman Ali Akbar HashemiRafsanjani telling a visiting Nicaraguan delegation yesterday,"At the moment the United States is moving towards the brink ofan armed encounter with us.    "We are not concerned about this and believe that the U.S.Presence in the war will make our nation even more serious. Weare determined to stand firm and will certainly win."    The United States disclosed last week it was beefing up itsGulf fleet from seven to 10 warships and also sending therefurbished battleship Missouri to patrol just outside thestrategic Strait of Hormuz, entrance to the Gulf.    The buildup ties in with U.S. Plans to escort Kuwaiti oiltankers which have been re-registered to fly the American flagand gain naval protection against Iranian attacks.    Asked about the Iranian rhetoric, White House spokesmanMarlin Fitzwater said, "We won't have any comment or response tothe Iranian statements. Our position has been made clear aboutthe status of events in the Gulf. We want an end to the warwith no winners and no losers and any activities or statementsthat tend to prolong the war or increase hostilities are nothelpful or welcome."    Redman said he could not independently confirm reports thatIran has offered to halt attacks on Gulf shipping. Reuter
JAPAN UNDERSTANDS U.S. ATTACK ON IRAN OIL PLATFORM Japan said it understood why the U.S.Attacked an Iranian oil platform on Monday.    "Japan, deeply concerned over the increasing threat to theships navigating in the Gulf, understands the circumstancesthat have led the United States government to take thesemeasures," the Foreign Ministry said in a statement.    The statement added that the threat to free and safenavigation had increased after the missile attack on aU.S.-flagged tanker in Kuwaiti territorial waters last Friday. REUTER
WORLD COULD COPE WITH HORMUZ CLOSURE, SUBROTO SAYS Oil prices would skyrocket for a time ifconflict in the Gulf closed the Strait of Hormuz, but oilsupplies could be adjusted to take care of world demand,Indonesian Energy Minister Subroto said.    He made no explicit reference to the latest U.S. Militaryaction in the Gulf.    But in an address to a conference of the IndonesianPetroleum Association, he said, "If worst comes to worst and saythe flow of oil through the Straits of Hormuz is completelyshut off, I believe the world oil supply, given time to adjust,can take care of the situation."    "But this is not to say that prices, at least for a shortduration, will not skyrocket as speculators take advantage ofthe situation," he declared.    Tensions in the Gulf, however, usually had a relativelyshort-term impact on prices, he added.    Assessing future price trends, he said, "Short-term spotprices will probably still fluctuate, but they will most likelyhover around the official Opec price basket of 18 dlrs perbarrel.    "The upward deviations, however, are likely to be greaterthan the downward ones."    "The balance between supply and demand in the short termwill still be delicate," he added. "Non-Opec production may stillgo up, competing with Opec for the expected additional increasein world demand."    Subroto, a member of Opec's three-man quota committee whichhas been touring cartel members, said speculation may playhavoc with spot prices, but Opec was trying to stabilize thesituation by urging cooperation by non-Opec producers.    In the medium term, non-Opec production would reach aplateau in the early 1990s, leaving Opec much stronger, hesaid. REUTER
IRANIAN PREMIER REITERATES WARNING OF RETALIATION Iranian Premier Mir-Hossein Mousavireiterated his country would retaliate for U.S. Navy attacks onGulf oil platforms.    "The U.S. Attack on Iran's oil platforms jeopardises ournational sovereignty ... And we will retaliate properly forthis perfidious American aggression," Mousavi told a newsconference in Damascus.  On Monday U.S. Navy warships blastedthe Rostam platform, and Navy personnel stormed a secondplatform a few miles away. Washington said the operation wasaimed at destroying positions used by Iran to track and assaultneutral Gulf shipping. REUTER
IRANIAN PREMIER REITERATES WARNING OF RETALIATION Iranian Premier Mir-Hossein Mousavireiterated his country would retaliate for U.S. Navy attacks onGulf oil platforms.    "The U.S. Attack on Iran's oil platforms jeopardises ournational sovereignty ... And we will retaliate properly forthis perfidious American aggression," Mousavi told a newsconference in Damascus.  On Monday U.S. Navy warships blastedthe Rostam platform, and Navy personnel stormed a secondplatform a few miles away. Washington said the operation wasaimed at destroying positions used by Iran to track and assaultneutral Gulf shipping. REUTER
IRAN LEADER VOWS REVENGE ON US RAID IN COMING DAYS Iran's top war spokesman Ali AkbarHashemi Rafsanjani on Tuesday called the U.S. Attacks on two ofits Gulf oil platforms an escalation and promised retaliation.    "God willing, we will carry out our duty in the coming daysand make them sorry," said Rafsanjani in a speech to Parliamentlater broadcast by Tehran Radio.    The Tehran leadership have been quick to threaten vengeanceafter the U.S. Raids on the rigs, one of which was destroyed.    President Ali Khamenei, Prime Minister Mir-Hossein Mousaviand now Rafsanjani within 24 hours of the U.S. Action have allvowed retaliation.    Rafsanjani, the parliamentary speaker, said, "It is not athreat or an attempt at intimidation when we say we willrespond to aggression -- it is a reality and we have proved itin practice." He added that the American attack "squares neitherwith its superpower image nor its claim of concern withsecurity, nor reason and wisdom."    U.S. Warships shelled an Iranian offshore oil platform andAmerican special forces boarded another, destroying equipment.    The U.S. Government said the attack was a measured responseto an Iranian missile attack on the American-flagged Kuwaititanker Sea Isle City in Kuwaiti waters last Friday. REUTER
PENTAGON SAYS U.S. WARSHIPS BEGIN ESCORTING GULF TANKER CONVOY SOUTH FRO Shr 38 cts vs not given    Net 8,616,000 vs not given    Revs 209.1 mln vs 169.8 mln    Nine mths    Shr 1.76 dlrs vs not given    Net 34.5 mln vs not given    Revs 632.0 mln vs 551.5 mln    NOTE: Year ago per share and net income not available ascompany recapitalized on December 28, 1986 after it became anew reporting entity for financial reporting purposes. Reuter
US WARNS IRAN, BEGINS ESCORTING TANKER CONVOY The United States warned Iran again that it was ready to retaliate for any further hostile militaryaction in the Gulf as U.S. warships began escorting anothertanker convoy southward from Kuwait.    U.S. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said the U.S.sought no further Gulf hostitilies but was ready to deal withany Iranian response to Monday's attack on an Iranian oil rig.    Several hours later, the Pentagon announced that U.S.warships had begun escorting two U.S. flag Kuwaiti tankers --the 80,000 ton product carrier Ocean City and 46,000 tonliquified petroleum tanker Gas King -- southward from Kuwait.    The Defense Department said the 12th such convoy of U.S.flagged Kuwaiti tankers through the Gulf began at 0230 EDTunder the escort by the U.S. guided missile frigate Ford. Itdid not say what oth U.S. warships were in the area.    "It (the convoy) is now progressing uneventfully in thecentral Gulf," the Pentagon statement said.    Asked on NBC's "Today" program if the United States wasprepared for a major war with Iran, Weinberger said, "Well weare prepared I think for whatever eventualities emerge fromthis situation but we don't look on it as a war." REUTER
US SENATE CUTS OFF STALL TACTICS ON GULF BILL Confronted by new hostilitiesinvolving U.S. forces in the Gulf, the U.S. Senate voted to endRepublican stalling tactics and limit debate on a measure thatcould give Congress a larger role in Gulf policy.    The measure, however, does not require President Reagan tocomply with the 1973 War Powers Act as does a related Senatebill. The controversial War Powers Act could require a pulloutof U.S. forces from the Gulf.    The Senate voted 67-28 to stop a filibuster and limitdebate to 30 hours on a bipartisan measure that requires Reaganto report to Congress on Gulf policy within 60 days and callsfor a resolution to be passed in the House and Senate on thesituation in the volatile waterway 30 days later.    The resolution could be about any Gulf-related issue,including an expression of support or of disapproval forReagan's policy of protecting 11 Kuwaiti tankers from Iran inthe waterway. The Pentagon said the 12th U.S.-protected convoybegan moving through the Gulf early Tuesday. Reuter
CONVOY RUNS GULF GAUNTLET, OTHER SHIPS STAY CLEAR A new convoy of tankers escorted byAmerican warships headed down the Gulf on Wednesday, towardsIranian oil platforms still oozing smoke after having beingblasted by U.S. Navy raiders.    Some Gulf sea captains were reported to be steering wellclear of Iran's Silkworm missiles, however, and frontlineemirate Kuwait redeployed air defences to counter the threat.    "I think the predominant feeling ... Is of being scared thisconflict will escalate," a top West German Foreign Ministryofficial, Helmut Schaefer, told reporters in Bahrain after atour of three Gulf states.b    Shipping sources said on Tuesday night at least six seacaptains had voiced fears that Iran would avenge Monday's U.S.Raids by unleashing more Silkworm missiles at ships plying theGulf.    Belgium decided two minesweepers en route for the Gulfwould stay out for the time being following Monday's U.S.Action.    But there was no sign that the prospect of more tit-for-tatassaults had reduced the level of shipping activity in thearea.    Iran, having vowed to react strongly after Monday's U.S.Action, launched a barrage of threats and ridicule.    For its part, Washington warned Iran again on Tuesday thatit was ready for any further hostile action.    Pentagon officials then announced that a U.S. Guidedmissile destroyer began escorting two Kuwaiti tankers flyingthe U.S. flag southwards--the 80,000 tonne product carrierOcean City and 46,000 tonne petroleum tanker Gas King. Reuter
SENATE BACKS U.S. RETALIATION IN GULF The U.S. Senate on Tuesday backedPresident Reagan's retaliatory strike against Iranian targetsin the Gulf as it moved to take a greater role in making policyin the volatile region.    Senators voted 92-1 for a non-binding measure that endorsedMonday's U.S. attack on two Iranian oil platforms inretaliation for an Iranian attack last Friday on a Kuwaiti shipflying the American flag.    The measure said the attack was a firm indication of U.S.resolve that Iran "cannot take military action against theUnited States with impunity."    Earlier, the Senate cut off Republican stalling tactics andset a vote on a measure that could give Congress a larger rolein making Gulf policy. The measure, however, does not requireReagan to comply with the 1973 War Powers Act, which could leadto a pullout of U.S. forces from the Gulf.    While Democrats and Republicans praised the U.S.retaliatory strike, many voiced new fears about the growingU.S. involvement in the Gulf and some demanded that Reagancomply with the War Powers Act. Reuter
FRANCE SAYS U.S. HAD RIGHT TO STRIKE France voiced its comprehension for a U.S.Attack on an Iranian target while calling for a swift halt tothe Gulf War to avoid further escalation.    "The French authorities reaffirm their attachment to thefreedom and security of navigation and to the right of allstates to take action under international law and the UnitedNations charter to halt attacks such as that of October 16," theForeign Ministry spokesman said in a statement.    The United States said its forces destroyed an Iranian oilplatform in the Gulf and struck at a second on Monday inretaliation for a recent Iranian missile attack on aU.S.-flagged Kuwaiti ship.    Washington said the platforms were used to monitor shippingand to launch small-boat attacks on shipping. The Frenchstatement described the target as "an Iranian military platform."    But the French statement added that "everything must be donenow to avoid that these military developments lead to a newescalation of the conflict." Reuter
U.S. LAWMAKERS SUPPORT GULF ACTION American lawmakers rallied behindPresident Reagan for the U.S. strike against Iranian targets inthe Gulf but the attack fueled a sharp new White House-Congressdebate over limits on his powers to make war.    The Pentagon announced on Monday that U.S. warshipsdestroyed a non-producing oil platform used for monitoring Gulfship traffic and military operations, and also raided a secondIranian oil rig in retaliation for an earlier Iranian attack ona Kuwaiti ship flying the American flag.    Many Democrats, who control Congress, and Republicansexpressed support for the attack and praised it as anappropriate "measured response."    But Democrats and liberal Republicans voiced new fears thatthe growing confrontation between Tehran and the United Statescould erupt into a major war, and demanded that Reagan complywith the 1973 War Powers Act, which could lead to a pullout ofAmerican forces from the waterway.    "Those who contend the strike was necessary must realizetheir words are easily construed as a tacit endorsement of warwith Iran," said Sen Mark Hatfield of Oregon, a Republican. Reuter
BRITAIN BACKS U.S. STRIKE ON IRAN OIL PLATFORM British Foreign Secretary Sir GeoffreyHowe backed the United States' attack on an Iranian oilplatform on Monday and said it should not worsen the Gulfcrisis.    "The United States is fully entitled to take military actionin exercise of rights of self-defense, in the face of theimminent threat of further attacks," Howe said in a statementissued in London.    The United States said its forces destroyed the platform onMonday in retaliation for an Iranian missile attack on a U.S.-flagged Kuwaiti ship last Friday.    Referring to that attack, Howe added, "I trust the Iranianswill fully understand that continued attacks of this kind willonly enhance justification for firm action in self-defense."    At a press conferenced in Luxembourg during a meeting ofEuropean Community (EC) ministers, Howe was asked aboutstatements from a senior Iranian official who said America wasnow involved in a full-scale war.    "It would be profoundly undesirable and quite unjustifiedfor Iran to react in that way," he said. Reuter
DIPLOMATS CALL U.S. ATTACK ON OIL RIG RESTRAINED A U.S. attack on an Iranian oil platformin the Gulf on Monday appeared to be a tit-for-tat raidcarefully orchestrated not to be too provocative or upset Araballies, Western diplomats in the region said.    U.S. Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger said Monday thatU.S. Warships destroyed the oil platform in the southern Gulfin response to a missile strike on the American-registeredKuwaiti tanker Sea Isle City in Kuwaiti waters on Friday.    "We consider the matter closed," he said, a signal the U.S.administration did not want the Gulf crisis to escalate.    Iran had warned the United States earlier in the dayagainst exacerbating the Gulf crisis, saying military actionwould endanger American interests.    Following the raid, a okesman for Tehran's WarInformation Headquarters vowed to avenge the attack with a"crushing blow."    "The United States has entered a swamp from which it can inno way get out safely," Tehran Radio quoted him as saying.    Diplomats noted, however, Iran was also seeking to avoidostracism by Arab states due to meet at a summit in Amman onNovember 8 and discuss the Iran-Iraq war.    Iranian Prime Minister Mir-Hossein Mousavi is currently inDamascus, and diplomats said he would seek Syrian help inpreventing a total Arab breach with Tehran.    Further escalation of the war threatening the Gulf Arabstates could work against Tehran at the Amman gathering, theysaid.    "The ball is in Iran's court now. It's up to Tehran torespond one way or the other," a diplomat said.    President Ronald Reagan warned Iran of stronger Americancountermeasures if the military escalation continued.    Western diplomats and military sources in the area saidshelling the platform appeared to be the least provocative actthe United States could have taken once it had decided toretaliate for the tanker attack, blamed by both the Americansand Kuwaitis on Iran.    "It's interesting that they chose something in internationalwaters because it doesn't implicate any other nation," onediplomat said. "This was better for U.S. Relations with the GulfArab states, particularly Kuwait."    Commented another diplomat: "Kuwait must be happy that theU.S. Has done something, but relieved that Faw was not attackedon its doorstep."    One source said of the attack on the oil platform: "Theymanaged to warn off the crew and hit something that was theleast nuisance to everybody."    A diplomat commented: "They were very clever in the placethey chose. It gets attention, but it hasn't devastatedanything because it wasn't working in the first place."    A senior Arab banker in the area said after the news broke:"This was a good, measured response without risking a flare-up... It is a face-saving response (for the Americans)." Reuter
LATEST ATTACK SEEN POINTING UP DILEMMAS FOR US Military experts say the United Statesfaces a dilemma in the Gulf following U.S. destruction of anIranian oil platform in retaliation for an attack on aU.S.-flagged tanker.    The experts told Reuters Tehran holds the initiative and islikely to control the tempo and direction of the conflict aslong as America simply reacts to Iranian attacks by launchinglimited retaliatory strikes.    But if Washington seizes the initiative with bolder steps-- such as mining Iran's harbors, blockading its shipping, ordestroying key bases -- it could find itself in a major war.    "Iran is in the driver's seat in an absolute sense as thecycle of attack and retaliation continues," said Fred Axelgard,a Gulf War expert with the private Center for Strategic andInternational Studies (CSIS).    "It's like a Greek tragedy," said retired Adm. Eugene Carrollof Washington's private Center for Defense Information (CDI)think tank.    Some Middle East experts say the only way out is forWashington to join forces with Moscow in pressing for an end tothe war between Iran and Iraq.    They say it is not feasible for America to withdraw its30-ship force from the Gulf area, where the Navy beganescorting U.S.-flagged Kuwaiti tankers in July. Withdrawal would give the appearance of being chased away by Iran, whichPresident Reagan could never accept.    U.S. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger told a Pentagonnews conference the destroyers Kidd, Young, Leftwich and Hoelfired about 1,000 rounds of five-inch shells at Iran's Rostamoil rig 120 miles east of Bahrain beginning at about 1400 Gulftime (0700 EDT) on Monday.    Weinberger said the platform had been used as a militarybase by Iran and that the attack responded to an IranianSilkworm missile strike on the U.S.-flagged Kuwaiti tanker SeaIsle City on Friday.    Iranians manning the platform were warned in advance andallowed to escape.    "We do not seek further confrontation with Iran, but we willbe prepared to meet any escalation of military action by Iranwith stronger countermeasures," Weinberger said.    "We consider this matter closed," he said.    Analysts ranging from the liberal CDI to conservativesagreed the U.S. reaction was measured, reasonable and did notescalate the conflict unduly. But they said the question waswhether Iran would consider the matter closed. It had not takenthis view after earlier clashes. Reuter
IRAN VOWS REPRISAL FOR U.S. ATTACK ON OIL RIG Iran said several people were injured inMonday's U.S. Attack on an Iranian offshore oil site and vowedretaliation, Tehran radio reported.    It quoted President Ali Khamenei as saying, "We willdefinitely retaliate and will not leave this American moveunanswered."    A broadcast monitored in Nicosia said several civilianpersonnel on the Rashadat oil platforms in the Gulf east ofQatar were injured when U.S. Warships bombarded them thisafternoon. It described damage as "severe."    Washington said four American frigates shelled anddestroyed two Iranian platforms at the Rashadat (formerlyRostam) field at 1100 GMT on Monday in response to Friday'smissile attack on a U.S.-flag ship in Kuwaiti waters.    The U.S. Said Iranians used the platforms for militarypruposes and had fired on an American helicopter from the rigsearlier this month.    Khamenei denied that the platforms had military gear orpersonnel and said the U.S. Attack lacked miltary value.    "With this move Mr. Reagan has committed a big mistake andhas definitely increased his problems... REUTER
IRAN SAYS US ATTACK INVOLVES IT IN FULL-SCALE WAR A top Iranian military official saidAmerica's attack on an Iranian oil platform on Monday hadinvolved the United States in full-scale war and Iran wouldavenge it with a "crushing blow."    "The United States has entered a swamp from which it can inno way get out safely," the Iranian news agency IRNA quoted thehead of Iran's war information headquarters as saying.    The official, Kamal Kharrazi, said Washington had nowbecome involved in what he called a full-fledged war with Iran.    It was the first official Iranian reaction to the attack byfour U.S. Navy destroyers on the Reshadat oil platform. Reuter
WORLD TELECOMS WATCHDOG RELAXES CAR PHONE RULES The International TelecommunicationsUnion, which regulates communications worldwide, decided at theend of a five-week conference to allow mobile phone systems tobe linked with satellites, telecommunications officials said.    Until now, car phones have been linked with land stationsand have been limited mainly to urban areas. The new rulingwill make it easier for calls to be made from remote regions.    The meeting, which finished over the weekend, also decidedto allow a "radio determination satellite system," which wouldenable fleet owners to trace to within about 15 metres themovements of their lorries or cars or ships around the world. Reuter
U.S. NAVAL FORCES ATTACK IRANIAN OIL PLATFORM U.S. warships attacked and destroyedan Iranian oil platform on Monday in retaliation for Friday'sIranian attack damaging a U.S.-flagged ship, U.S. DefenseSecretary Caspar Weinberger said.    When asked how much was left of the oil platform,Weinberger said, "Nothing."    "There was no Iranian reaction," he said. "... We considerthis matter is now closed."    Weinberger said four U.S. destroyers attacked the platformabout 120 miles east of Bahrain in the central Gulf with fireat 0700 EDT, Weinberger said.    "We chose a platform used by the Iranians to interfere withand be a source of potential attack on convoys...," Weinbergersaid at a Pentagon briefing.     "We know it has been used indeed, to not only launch smallboat attacks on shipping but to fire on U.S. helicopters...    "It's removal will contribute significantly to the safety ofU.S. forces in the future," Weinberger said of the U.S. Navy'soperation to escort oil tankers through the Gulf.    "We do not seek further confrontation with Iran but we willbe prepared to meet any escalation of military actions by Iranwith stronger countermeasures," Weinberger said.    He said the 20 to 30 Iranian personnel on the oil platformwere given a 20-minute warning to abandon the platform.    "As far as we know they did abandon the site," he said.    Weinberger was asked why the United States had chosen toattack an oil platform rather than Iranian Silkworm missileplatforms blamed by Washington for Friday's attack. Reuter
AIRCRAFT ATTACK IRANIAN OIL RIGS IN SOUTHERN GULF Unidentified jets attacked three Iranianoil rigs in the southern Gulf early on Monday, setting at leastone of them ablaze, regional shipping sources said.    Earlier today in Washington, U.S. Television networks hadreported that American forces launched a retaliatory strikeagainst Iran late Sunday, attacking two Iranian offshore oildrilling platforms and setting them ablaze.    The shipping sources said Iran's Sassan, Rostam and Rakhshoffshore oilfields were attacked at 0700 local (0300 GMT) by awave of jet fighter bombers. Smoke was seen spiralling up fromthe Rostam field soon after.    At least one of the other two targets was also believed tobe ablaze, the sources said.    The Sassan and Rostam fields have been targets for Iraqiair strikes in the past, but Baghdad had not reported anysouthern Gulf missions prior to news of the latest attack.    Shipping and military sources in the region have said Iranused its southern Gulf rigs as bases to launch helicopter andlater speedboat attacks on neutral ships in the waterway.    U.S. Officials had been meeting on a response since Fridaywhen an attack on a Kuwaiti port severely damaged aU.S.-flagged ship. President Reagan said on Sunday he hadalready made a decision on the U.S. Response to Friday's Iranattack but would not say what the decision was. REUTER
AIRCRAFT ATTACK IRANIAN OIL RIGS IN SOUTHERN GULF Unidentified jets raided three Iranianoil rigs in the southern Gulf on Monday, setting at least oneof them ablaze, regional shipping sources said. Reuter
NBC NEWS SAYS U.S. HAS RETALIATED AGAINST IRAN U.S. television networks said onMonday that U.S. forces launched a retaliatory strike againstIran late Sunday, apparently attacking two Iranian offshore oildrilling platforms.    NBC News said it understood six Iranians had been pulledfrom the sea.    It said cautiously that U.S. forces attacked late Sundayand that two Iranian oil platforms east of Bahrain were ablazeas a result, but CBS News and other networks said flatly thatU.S. forces attacked the Iranian oil platforms.    U.S. officials had been meeting on a response since Fridaywhen an attack on a Kuwaiti port severely damaged aU.S.-flagged ship.    President Reagan said on Sunday he had already made adecision on the U.S. response to Friday's Iran attack but wouldnot say what the decision was.    Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said on Saturday theattack on a U.S.-flagged ship in Kuwaiti waters on Friday wasalmost certainly by an Iran Silkworm missile. Reuter
PENTAGON HAS NO INFORMATION ON IRAN ATTACK RUMORS A U.S. Defense Department spokesmansaid he had no information on London oil and stock marketrumors that the United States had launched a retaliatory strikeagainst Iran for an attack on Friday that damaged a U.S. shi    "I don't have anything," Major Randy Morger said. "I have noinformation at all."    President Reagan said on Sunday he had already made adecision on the U.S. response to Friday's Iran attack but wouldnot say what the decision was.    Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said on Saturday theattack on a U.S.-flagged ship in Kuwaiti waters on Friday wasalmost certainly by an Iran Silkworm missile.    Some of the rumors in the London markets were that theUnited States had launched an offshore strike against Iranianmissile installations. Reuter
IRAN WARNS U.S. AGAINST RAISING TENSION IN GULF Iran warned the United States on Mondayagainst exacerbating the Gulf crisis, saying it would endangerAmerican interests.    Tehran Radio, monitored by the British BroadcastingCorporation, said a spokesman for Iran's War InformationHeadquarters was responding "to U.S. Officials' remarks abouttaking military action against Iran."    The radio also quoted an Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesmanas saying Iran would respond decisively to any aggressivemeasure by the United States.    The radio said the spokesman made the statement "followingthe attack on a Kuwaiti ship under the U.S. Flag and commentsby American officials on carrying out retaliatory actionagainst Iran."    The spokesman said, "Any U.S. Military aggression againstIran will certainly be the beginning of an extensive clash inthe Persian Gulf, and amidst this our principled policy is toconfront any act which escalates tension." REUTER
ANIMAL FEED SHIP ON FIRE AGAIN AT CHINESE PORT The Cyprus vessel Fearless, 31,841 tonnesdw, which was on fire, grounded then towed to Yantai, China, inAugust, had all its cargo reloaded but the cargo in the no. 3hold caught fire on October 15.    The fire was put out with salt water and water from theno.4 hold has spread over most of the cargo. Some water is alsoin the no.5 hold. Bottom patching was reported complete butonly the no.4 starboard wing tank has been pumped out andremains dry. The engine room is flooded to about three metres.    The ship was originally loaded with 10,000 tonnes of animalfeed. REUTER
BRITISH BAUXITE VESSEL GROUNDED IN ORINOCO RIVER Lloyds Shipping Intelligence service saidthe British bulk carrier Envoy, 75,453 tonnes dw, was groundedat Mile 190 in the Orinoco river on October 16.    The vessel was on a voyage from Trombetas, Brazil, toMatanzas, Cuba, carrying 50,000 tonnes of bauxite. Its draughtwas 36 feet.     Attempts to refloat the vessel with the help of six tugshave been unsuccessful. The owners are considering unloadingpart of the cargo onto barges. REUTER
JAPAN/INDIA CONFERENCE CUTS GULF WAR RISK CHARGES The Japan/India-Pakistan-Gulf/Japanshipping conference said it would cut the extra risk insurancesurcharges on shipments to Iranian and Iraqi ports to a minimumthree pct from 4.5 pct on October 25.    It said surcharges on shipments of all break-bulk cargoesto non-Iraqi Arab ports would be reduced to 3.0 pct from 4.5.    A conference spokesman declined to say why the move wastaken at a time of heightened tension in the Gulf. REUTER
