AMAX <AMX> IN GOLD, SILVER FIND AMAX Incx said it has identifiedadditional gold and silver ore reserves at its AMAX SleeperMine near Winnemucca, Nev..    It said as a result of recent drilling, reserves at thhemine are now estimated at 2,470,000 short tons of ore grading0.24 ounce of gold and 0.50 ounce of silver per ton that istreatable by conventional milling techniques.    AMAX said additional reserves amenable to heap leaching areestimated at 38.3 mln tons averaging 0.025 ounce gold and 0.24ounce silver per ton.  Further drilling is being conducted, itsaid. Reuter
BELGIAN ECU COIN ISSUE PRICED, SALE DATE SET A limited Belgian issue of silver Ecucoins with a face value of five Ecus will go on sale from March23 at a price of 500 Belgian francs each, a Finance Ministryspokesman said.    Gold Ecu coins with a face value of 50 Ecus will be soldfrom the same day. The spokesman told Reuters the price forthese would be fixed just before they go on sale but was likelyto be between 8,500 and 9,000 francs.    At least two mln silver coins and several hundreds ofthousands of the gold coins will be minted, he said. They willbe sold both in Belgium and abroad.    The coins will be the first ever denominated in the Ecu,the "basket" comprised of the 12-nation European Community'scurrencies except the Spanish peseta and the Portuguese escudo.    The issue is being made to mark the 30th anniversary of theEC's founding Treaty of Rome this month. Finance Minister MarkEyskens, who currently presides over the EC's council ofeconomic and finance ministers, has called the issue apolitical act of symbolic value which aimed to make theCommunity's goal of monetary integration more concrete.    The coins will be legal tender in Belgium but most demandis expected to come from coin collectors. REUTER
ST. JOE GOLD <SJG> TO DEVELOP MINE St. Joe Gold Corp said it plans toproceed with development of its Golden Patricia gold propertyin northwestern Ontario.    It said about five mln dlrs will be spent to continueunderground development and obtain operating permits andanother 10.2 mln dlrs is expected to be required to completeunderground development, construct a mill and provide theinfrastructure needed to put the mine into commercialproduction.    St. Joe Gold said if the necessary operating permits weregranted in time, it would start gold production in the secondhalf of the year ending October 31, 1988 at an annual rate ofabout 40,000 troy ounces.    The company said the property is estimated to contain over500,000 troy ounces of gold, and the initial mining projectcovers only seven of 192 claims, with drill-indicated reservesof 293,000 short tons grading 0.88 troy ounce of gold per ton.    It said initial mine output is expected to be about 150tons of ore daily.    St. Joe Gold said the Golden Patricia vein has not beentested at depth or along strike to the east and west andexploration is continuing on the Golden Patricia property andthe adjacent wholly-owned Muskeg Lake property.    The company also said its Richmond Hill gold and silverdeposit in the Carbonate district of western South Dakota hasbeen shown by drilling to contain about 3,900,000 tons grading0.055 troy ounce of gold and 0.23 troy ounce of silver per ton. It said preliminary results are encouraging and a feasibilitystudy is nearing completion. Reuter
ST. JOE GOLD TO DEVELOP ONTARIO MINE St. Joe Gold Corp said it plans toproceed with development of its Golden Patricia gold propertyin northwestern Ontario.    It said about five mln dlrs will be spent to continueunderground development and obtain operating permits andanother 10.2 mln dlrs is expected to be required to completeunderground development, construct a mill and provide theinfrastructure needed to put the mine into commercialproduction.    St. Joe Gold said if the necessary operating permits weregranted in time, it would start gold production in the secondhalf of the year ending October 31, 1988 at an annual rate ofabout 40,000 troy ounces.    The company said the property is estimated to contain over500,000 troy ounces of gold, and the initial mining projectcovers only seven of 192 claims, with drill-indicated reservesof 293,000 short tons grading 0.88 troy ounce of gold per ton.    It said initial mine output is expected to be about 150tons of ore daily.    St. Joe Gold said the Golden Patricia vein has not beentested at depth or along strike to the east and west andexploration is continuing on the Golden Patricia property andthe adjacent wholly-owned Muskeg Lake property.    The company also said its Richmond Hill gold and silverdeposit in the Carbonate district of western South Dakota hasbeen shown by drilling to contain about 3,900,000 tons grading0.055 troy ounce of gold and 0.23 troy ounce of silver per ton. It said preliminary results are encouraging and a feasibilitystudy is nearing completion. Reuter
PERU GUERRILLAS INTERRUPT TRAIN ROUTE TO MINES Maoist guerrillas using dynamite derailedtwo locomotives and four train wagons, interrupting traffic onPeru's sole railway line linking the capital to the centralAndes, where most of the country's mining centres are located,authorities said.    Damages was estimated at 800,000 dlrs in the dynamite blastyesterday at Chacapalca, where the explosion wrecked the trainladen with minerals and 45 metres of the railway line.    Crews hoped to restore traffic to the line later todayafter clearing the damaged train and repairing the tracks atChacapalca, 225 km east of the Capital, Lima.    An official at Mineroperu comercial (Minpeco), Peru's stateminerals marketing firm, said the agency was assessing thesituation. There had not been a declaration of force majeure oncontracts to ship minerals abroad.    Foreign sales of silver, copper, zinc and other mineralsearn Peru over half of its export income. Most of the minerals,extracted and refined in the central peruvian andes, areshipped down the central railway to the lima port of callao. Reuter
PLACER <PLC> TO INCREASE STAKE IN EQUITY SILVER <Equity SilverMines Ltd> said it agreed to sell 6.6 mln shares of a new classof par value voting stock to Placer Development Ltd for 37.1mln dlrs, increasing Placer's stake in Equity to 74.5 pct from68 pct.    The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and avote by Equity minority shareholders at the April 23 annualmeeting, the company said.    Proceeds from sale of the shares, priced at 5.625 dlrseach, will be used to buy and deliver 4,985,000 ounces ofsilver to Placer, Equity said.    Equity Silver said the silver remains to be delivered underits sale agreement with Placer, after delivery of its 750,000ounce minimum commitment for 1987.    Equity said it arranged to acquire 4,985,000 ounces ofsilver at 7.40 dlrs an ounces, subject to selling the shares toPlacer.    Purchase and delivery of the silver to Placer will resultin an after-tax gain of about 6.6 mln dlrs, Equity said.    It also said the stock and silver transactions will createa 37,059,000 dlr fund out of which dividends will be paid whencash is available.    The cash fund will enable Equity Silver to continue to paydividends on its preferred shares and increase the likelihoodthat it may be able to pay dividends on its common shares, thecompany said.    It did not elaborate on what common share dividends mightbe paid.    The company normally pays quarterly preferred dividendstotalling 619,000 dlrs from retained earnings, Equity Silversaid.    Equity Silver had retained earnings of 2,312,000 dlrs atDecember 31, 1986. Reuter
STUDY SHOWS ONLY LIMITED OPTIMISM FOR SILVER Silver looks "unlikely to break out ofgold and platinum's shadow" in the near future, although thisyear is likely to see demand increasing at a faster rate thansupply, a study by Credit Suisse said.    The study predicted demand rising by 300 tonnes to 13,200tonnes this year, against a 50 tonne increase in supply to14,050 tonnes. This should cut the global oversupply to 850tonnes from last year's provisional 1,100 tonnes.    The study noted that the effects of last year's lowerprices were having a dampening effect on total supply, whichwas now back down to around levels of a decade ago.    However, the study said that primary production, likely toreach 10,000 tonnes this year against a provisional 9,950 in1986, is relatively insensitive to price falls.    Around a third of silver production comes from heavilyindebted Mexico and Peru.    Price-sensitivity is also reduced by the fact that themajority of silver is a by-product of other mining activity. Reuter
HANDY AND HARMAN SEES SUFFICIENT SILVER SUPPLIES World stocks of silver are largeenough to accommodate any changes in the supply-demand equationthis year, with industrial consumption expected to again exceedmine production, the dealer house Handy and Harman said in itsannual review of the silver market.    The house estimated that the industry last year withdrew20,000,000 ounces of silver from stocks to bridge a supplydeficit caused by a consumption rate of 403,000,000 ounces andproduction level of 382,000,000 ounces.    However, world stocks are huge, totaling 2,267,900,000ounces at the end of 1986, it said.    The review noted that world industrial consumption has beenon an uptrend since 1980, although offtake is still 14 pctbelow the 1978 level of 442,000,000 ounces.    Handy and Harman said 22,800,000 ounces of silver were usedto produce coins last year, up from 12,700,000 ounces in 1985,with the demand getting a big boost from the production of U.S.coins, including the American Eagle.    It also said that in recent years Communist countries haveincreased their silver imports and estimated that China andEast Germany alone took in 70,000,000 ounces of foreign silverin the last five years. Reuter
GEODOME SETS IDAHO GOLD/SILVER MINE CONSTRUCTION Geodome Resources Ltd saidfollowing receipt of a feasibility study from Raytheon Co'sStearns Catalytic unit it will proceed with construction andpre-production stripping at its Sunbeam Mine in Custer County,Idaho, as quickly as possible.    The company said the study found proven ore reserves of3,302,000 short tons grading 0.077 ounce of gold per ton. Itsaid the mine will operate at a rate of 626,000 tons of ore peryear, with higher-grade ore being mined in the first threeyears for a rapid payback of capital costs.    It said the feasibility study calls for gold productionaveraging 41,000 ounces a year for the life of the mine and50,000 ounces a year over the first three years, with 99,000ounces of silver per year being produced over the mine life.    Capital costs would be 22.3 mln dlrs with all-new equipmentand 500,000 to one mln dlrs less with used equipment, the firmsaid. It said the mine would be operated by a contract minerbut the associated mill by Geodome.    Geodome said a new ore zone discovered last summer is notincluded in reserve calculations. It said eight of the nineholes drilled there have an average grade of 0.046 ounce ofgold and 2.1 ounces of silver per ton.    Also excluded are reserves of 1,400,000 tons of low-gradematerial that could be milled profitably at 425 dlrs a ton forgold. The feasibility study used a 350 dlr gold price.    Geodome said operating costs of the mine will average 201dlr per ounce of gold for the mine life and 171 dlrs for thefirst three years, in constant dollars. Reuter
HOUSTON METALS' MINE YIELDS POSITIVE RESULTS <Houston Metals Corp> said thethe first phase of the underground rehabilitation, extensivedrilling and bulk sampling program at its Silver Queen Mine hasyielded positive results.    Houston said representative assays from the 2,750 ft and2,600 ft levels at the south end of the mine established oredeposits in the following ranges: copper, 3.7 pct to 5.08 pct,lead .99 pct to 1.5 pct, zinc six pct to 9.6 pct, silver 15.63pct to 79.92 oz per ton, gold .062 to .19 oz per ton, germanium93 to 103 grams per ton, gallium five to 18 grams per ton.    In addition, Houston Metals said the weighted average of 25diamond-drilled holes 375 ft below the 2,600 foot level and 800ft along the strike assayed gold at .237 oz per ton, silver at10.91 oz per ton and zinc at 8.99 pct.    An apparent parallel vein structure at the 2,600 ft levelreturned similar values, the company said.    It added that preliminary metallurgical tests fromrepresentative bulk ore samples indicate the commercialfeasability of producing a zinc and a copper-lead concentrate.    Houston Metals said gold, silver and the base metals haverecoveries of 90 pct to 95 pct, with 95 pct of gold recoveredfrom better gold ores, while gallium, germanium and indium haverecoveries of between 66 pct to 82 pct and are included in thezinc concentrate.    The company's 1987 program of diamond drilling, undergrounddrifting and metallurgical evaluation is scheduled to start onApril.    Houston Metals said it has a 60 pct interest in the SilverQueen mines.    It added that funds for the program have been provided byFirst Exploration Fund, a Canadian limited partnershipsponsored by Merrill Lynch Canada Inc and Dominion SecuritiesInc. Reuter
HECLA <HL> TO BUY MINE STAKE FROM BP <BP> UNIT Hecla Mining Co said ithas agreed to purchase a 28 pct interest in the Greens CreekJoint Venture from British Petroleum Co PLC's Amselco MineralsInc unit.    The venture expects to bring into production agold-silver-lead-zinc ore body on Admiralty Island, Alaska,containing about 3,500,000 short tons of ore assaying about0.18 ounce of gold, 24.0 ounces of silver, 9.7 pct zinc and 3.9pct zinc per short ton, Hecla said.  It said there issignificant potential for the discovery of additional ore.    Hecla said initial production from a trackless undergroundmine is scheduled for late 1988 at a rate of about 1,000 tonsor ore per day.  "At this rate, the Greens Creek mine will bethe largest domestic silver mine and is expected to be one ofthe lowest cost producers."    The company said it estimates its total investment in theproject, including its share of preproduction costs, at about45 mln dlrs, to be funded through internally generated cash andexisting lines of credit.  It said Amselco will retain amajority interest in the project.  Other interest holders areCSX Corp <CSX> and <Exaias Resources Corp>. Reuter
CORRECTED-HECLA <HL> TO BUY MINE STAKE FROM BP Hecla Minging Co said ithas agreed to purchase a 28 pct interest in the Greens CreekJoint Venture from British Petroleum Co PLC's <BP> AmselcoMinerals Inc unit.    The venture expects to bring into production agold-silver-lead-zinc ore body on Admiralty Island, Alaska,containing about 3,500,000 short tons of ore assaying about0.18 ounce of gold, 24.0 ounces of silver, 9.7 pct zinc and 3.9pct lead per short ton, Hecla said.  It said there issignificant potential for the discovery of additional ore.    Corrects last assay result to lead from zinc. Reuter
WEST GERMANS TO MINT COMMUNITY ANNIVERSARY COIN The West German Cabinet approved a plan tomint a special 10-mark coin commemorating the 30th anniversaryof the European Community this year.    The silver-copper alloy coin will be minted in an editionof 8.35 mln, a Finance Ministry statement said. REUTER
PEGASUS GOLD <PGULF> STARTS MILLING IN MONTANA Pegasus Gold Inc saidmilling operations have started at its Montana Tunnels open-pitgold, silver, zinc and lead mine near Helena.    The start-up is three months ahead of schedule and six mlndlrs under budget, the company said. Original capital cost ofthe mine was 57.5 mln dlrs, but came in at 51.5 mln dlrs, thecompany said.    After a start-up period, the mill is expected to produce 106,000 ounces of gold, 1,700,000 ounces of silver, 26,000 tonsof zinc and 5,700 tons of lead on an annual basis from4,300,000 tons of ore, the company said. Reuter
PRECIOUS METALS CLIMATE IMPROVING, SAYS MONTAGU The climate for precious metals isimproving with prices benefiting from renewed inflation fearsand the switching of funds from dollar and stock markets,brokers Samuel Montagu and Co Ltd said.    Silver prices in March gained some 15 pct in dlr terms dueto a weak dollar and silver is felt to be fairly cheap relativeto gold, Montagu said in its monthly silver newsletter. InMarch the gold/silver ratio narrowed from 74 to less than 67.    The supply/demand position has improved in the past year,and despite a silver market surplus, the quantity of silver ismodest enough to be absorbed by investors, it added.    The report said the firmness in oil prices was likely tocontinue in the short term.    A period of consolidation might be necessary before pricesattempted to move significantly higher,it said, but so long asthe dollar remains under pressure then the outlook for silverwas positive.    However silver was less likely to continue to outpace theother metals by such a margin, Montagu said. REUTER
PRECIOUS METALS CLIMATE IMPROVING, SAYS MONTAGU The climate for precious metals isimproving with prices benefiting from renewed inflation fearsand the switching of funds from dollar and stock markets,brokers Samuel Montagu and Co Ltd said.    Silver prices in March gained some 15 pct in dlr terms dueto a weak dollar and silver is felt to be fairly cheap relativeto gold, Montagu said in its monthly silver newsletter. InMarch the gold/silver ratio narrowed from 74 to less than 67.    The supply/demand position has improved in the past year,and despite a silver market surplus, the quantity of silver ismodest enough to be absorbed by investors, it added.    The report said the firmness in oil prices was likely tocontinue in the short term.    A period of consolidation might be necessary before pricesattempted to move significantly higher,it said, but so long asthe dollar remains under pressure then the outlook for silverwas positive.    However silver was less likely to continue to outpace theother metals by such a margin, Montagu said. REUTER
COMEX RAISES MARGINS FOR SILVER FUTURES The Commodity Exchange Inc said it isincreasing the minimum margins for silver futures contracts,effective at the opening of business Thursday, April 2.    The margins for speculative trading will be increased to2,000 dlrs per contract from 1,300 dlrs and trade hedge marginswill rise to 1,400 dlrs from 900 dlrs, the Comex said.    Margins are unchanged for gold, copper, and aluminumcontracts, it said. Reuter
LME DETAILS MARCH 1987 TURNOVER The London Metal Exchange, LME, issuedturnovers for March 1987, with figures for corresponding period1986 in brackets.    All in tonnes except Silver which in troy ounces.    Copper higher grade nil (2,526,425), Standard cathodes nil(6,325), Grade A 2,429,200 (nil), Standard Copper 17,050 (nil),Lead 443,850 (538,750), Zinc High grade 598,550 (304,825),Silver large 10,350,000 (17,400,000), Small nil (2,000),Aluminium 1,693,375 (1,301,850), Nickel 62,004 (65,040).    Cumulative figures for January-March were as follows -Copper higher grade nil (7,703,625), Standard cathodes nil(24,700), Grade A 6,455,525 (nil), Standard Copper 62,075(nil), Lead 1,567,000 (1,979,750), Zinc High grade 1,746,675(1,356,400), Silver large 41,770,000 (65,620,000), Small nil(8,000), Aluminium 4,984,650 (4,974,950), Nickel 199,944(179,328). Reuter
SUNSHINE MINING CHIEF SEES SILVER AT 9.00 DLRS Heightened concern over renewedinflation is feeding the rally in silver and the upward movecould drive the inflation hedge metal this year to as much as9.00 dlrs per troy ounce, Mike Boswell chairman of SunshineMining Co told Reuters in an interview.    "The anticipated higher inflation is being manifested insilver rather than in gold which is the traditional choice ofinflation hedgers," said Boswell.    The strength could put silver in a range of "8.00 to 9.00dlrs even without any material swings in supply/demand,"Boswell said.    The buying interest for silver on the New York CommodityExchange (Comex) continued strong, with prices rising today toa September 1986 high of 6.465 dlrs per ounce. However goldlagged at 426.30 dlrs, the strongest price since late Januarythis year.    Boswell said silver has been "under-valued for so longrelative to gold but it's closing up the price gap."    He noted that silver last year held at the depressed levelof 5.00 dlrs while gold was soaring to more than 400.00 dlrs onconcern over the heated political unrest in South Africa. "Thestrength was not filtering down to silver last year. Nowwe're seeing a delayed reaction," the Sunshine Mining officialsaid.    Almost a year ago, U.S. producers shut down two of theirlargest silver properties, Sunshine and Hecla mining companies,both located in Idaho.    Boswell estimated that the closings slashed U.S. silverproduction by 10 mln ounces last year to less than 40 mlnounces.    "Low silver prices and high labor costs made ituneconomical to keep the mines opened," he said.    Increased imports from Mexico and Peru have made up for theloss of production in the United States which consumes 160 to170 mln ounces annually, Boswell said. Reuter
CBT METALS/FINANCIALS DELIVERY LOCATIONS The following deliveries are scheduledfor April 6 against Chicago Baord of Trade Futures -    Silver - 392 lots at Chicago, Illinois.    Kilo Gold - 21 lots. 16 at Chicago, Illinois, 5 at NewYork, New York. Reuter
U.S. SILVER PRODUCTION ROSE IN DECEMBER U.S. mine production of silver roseto 2,295,230 troy ounces in December from 2,181,082 inNovember, the Interior Department's Bureau of Mines said.    U.S. imports of silver in December were 8,458,000 ounces,vs 19,950,000 in November, and 8,840,000 in December, 1985.    Silver exports totaled 1,549,000 ounces in December, vs2,346,000 in November and 1,504,000 ounces in December, 1985.    Silver mining production in the 12-month period Jan-Dec,1986 totaled 31,720,769 ounces, vs 39,357,197 ounces producedover the same period in 1985.   Imports of silver in Jan-Dec, 1986 totaled 144,890,000ounces, vs 152,601,000 ounces in Jan-Dec, 1985, while silverexports stood at 25,114,000 ounces and 24,756,000 ounces overthe respective periods, the bureau said. Reuter
WESTMIN TO RAISE MYRA FALLS CAPACITY BY 33 PCT Westmin Resources Ltd said itplans to increase capacity at its Myra Falls, British Columbia,base and precious metal mine and mill complex by 33 pct to4,400 short tons of ore a day, subject to regulatory approvals.    The company said the expansion will cost about 24 mln dlrsand could be in operation by 1988.    Economies of scale from the expansion should pay back netexpansion cost in less than one year, Westmin said.    The Myra Falls complex processed 3,257 tons of ore a dayduring 1986. Myra Falls 1986 production was 44,000 ounces ofgold, 966,266 ounces of silver, 45.5 mln lbs of copper, 96.2mln lbs of zinc and 777,000 lbs of lead, a company spokesmansaid.    Myra Falls 1986 production was 44,000 ounces of gold,966,266 ounces of silver, 45.5 mln pounds of copper, 96.2 mlnpounds of zinc and 777,000 pounds of lead, a company spokesmansaid. Reuter
U.S. DOLLAR LOSSES PROPEL BROAD COMMODITY GAINS Commodities from gold to grains tocotton posted solid gains in a flurry of buying today as lossesin the U.S. dollar and rising interest rates kindled fears ofinflation and economic instability.    Gains were most pronounced on the Commodity Exchange in NewYork, where gold jumped 12.40 dlrs and closed at 436.50 dlrs atroy ounce, and silver 22.5 cents to 6.86 dlrs a troy ounce.    A key factor behind the advance was anticipation thatinflation will be the only way for the major industrial nationsto halt the slide in the value of the U.S. dollar, said SteveChronowitz, director of commodity research with Smith Barney,Harris Upham and Co., in New York.    The dollar tumbled one day after top finance officials fromthe seven largest industrial nations reaffirmed theircommitment to support its value, and despite reports ofintervention by the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank, traders said.    Traders said it appears that the industrial nations, knownas the Group of Seven, lack the ability to change the long-termdirection of the currency markets.    "Maybe they have some ideas or plans," said Chronowitz. "Ifthey do, it's not evident."    "It looks like there's no cure but to let the free markettake values to where they should be.    "One way or another, we will force our major tradingpartners to stimulate their economies," as a measure to correctthe mounting U.S. trade deficit, Chronowitz said.    "I think the markets believe, and have believed for a longtime, that the only recourse is to reflate at some point. It'sgoing to be a long and tedious process, but that's what'shappening," he said.    The falling value of the dollar makes U.S. commoditiescheaper for foreign buyers, stimulating demand.    At the same time, traders who are holding stocks and bondssaw the value of their investments falling and many are turningto commodities such as precious metals as a hedge, said MartyMcNeill, a metals analyst in New York with the trading house ofDominick and Dominick.    The reaction in the metal markets reverberated throughoutthe commodities markets, as grains, livestock, and cottonposted broad gains.    Traders at the Chicago Board of Trade said attention in thegrain markets has shifted from concern about burdensomesupplies to the outlook that a lower dollar will stimulateexport demand.    After the close of trading, the Agriculture Departmentraised its estimate for grain imports by the Soviet Union bytwo mln tonnes from the month-earlier report.    Live hogs and frozen pork bellies posted sharp gains on theChicago Mercantile Exchange, while live cattle were moderatelyhigher.    Analysts said several factors boosted hog prices. They saidhogs haven't been making the weight gains that are normal atthis time of year, and farmers have been too busy with fieldwork to market animals. Reuter
MORE BRITISH GOLD ARTICLES HALLMARKED The number of British gold articleshallmarked during the first quarter of this year rose by morethan 11 pct on the corresponding period last year, figuresreleased by the Assay Offices of Great Britain show.    More than 2.5 mln British items were hallmarked during thequarter, up 11.1 pct on the same year ago period. The fourAssay Offices also marked 832,222 foreign gold articles, up 2.5pct on last year.    In weight terms the 7.19 mln grams of British gold assayedwas a 15.3 pct increase, while the 2.95 mln grams of foreigngold represented a rise of 3.1 pct.    British silver goods assayed totalled 698,132, an increaseof 6.2 pct but only 78,457 foreign items were marked, a fall of11.1 pct.    A total of 10,968 kilos of silver were assayed, an 11.1 pctrise.    The number of platinum items marked fell 12.5 pct to 1,785,while in weight terms the total slipped 8.1 pct to 9,849 grams.    A spokesman for the Assay Offices of Great Britain said hewas particularly encouraged to see the percentage increase forBritish manufactured goods. Reuter
CITY RESOURCES UNIT ACQUIRES PHILIPPINE MINE OPTION <City Resources (Asia) Ltd>, alocally listed unit of Australian based <City Resources Ltd>,said it acquired an 80-day option to buy exploration,development and operating rights for mining property on theisland of Luzon in the Philippines.    It said in a statement that average assay results of randomsamples of the Brescia ore bearing body on the 459-hectare siteshowed 2.4 grammes of gold, 64 grammes of silver and 1.9grammes of copper per tonne.    It said it will exercise the option if tests confirm thesite's potential. Further details were not available. REUTER
NO MEXICO REACTION TO PERU SILVER TALKS PROPOSAL mexico's minister of energy andmines, alfredo del mazo, has yet to reply to a peruvianinvitation for ministerial-level talks on bilateral cooperationin silver marketing, a ministry spokesman said.    Peruvian officials said they extended the invitationearlier this week and that it was possible the talks could beheld within the next 15 days.    Meanwhile, a banco de mexico spokesman confirmed thatmexican central bank head miguel mancera aguayo held privatetalks here yesterday with the president of the peruvian centralbank leonel figueroa. Reuter
MEXICO YET TO REPLY TO PERU'S SILVER INVITATION Mexico's minister of energy andmines, Alfredo del Mazo, has yet to reply to a Peruvianinvitation for ministerial-level talks on bilateral cooperationin silver marketing, a ministry spokesman said.    Peruvian officials said they extended the invitationearlier this week and that it was possible the talks could beheld within the next 15 days.    Meanwhile, a Banco de Mexico spokesman confirmed thatMexican central bank head Miguel Mancera Aguayo held privatetalks here yesterday with the president of the Peruvian centralbank.    The spokesman said the talks were in line with mutualconsultation agreements made during Peruvian President AlanGarcia's visit to Mexico in march.    Press reports citing diplomatic sources at the meeting saidthe two central bank heads discussed means of coordinatingactions in the silver market.    Mexico is the world's leading silver produer. It producedabout 73.9 mln troy ounces in 1986, according to preliminarygovernment figures.    Peru, the second biggest producer of the precious metal,earlier this week froze new silver sales in an effort tostabilize silver prices. It produced 57 mln troy ounces in1986. Reuter
PERU SAYS IT HELD TALKS WITH MEXICO ON SILVER The heads of the central banks of Mexicoand Peru have met in Mexico city to coordinate actions aimed atconsolidating the upward trend in the price of silver, theofficial newspaper El Peruano said.    It said that Peruvian central bank president LeonelFigueroa met yesterday with the president of the bank ofMexico, Miguel Mancera Aguayo.   Peru, which froze new sales of refined silver and itsgovernment-marketed silver ore on tuesday, is the world'ssecond biggest producer of the precious metal. Mexico is thelargest producer.    Together, the two nations account for nearly 40 pct of theworld's silver output, the official paper El Peruano said.    Peru adopted the move on tuesday in an bid to stablilisethe price of silver bullion, which has climbed in a month fromabout 5.70 dlrs an ounce to over 9.00 dlrs an ounce today.    After the meeting of the Peruvian and Mexican central bankheads, it was understood that Mexico might diversify the use ofsilver, El Peruano said.    It said that Mexico and Peru did not want to speculate withthe price of silver. Instead, they aimed to see that the priceof the precious metal recuperated to adequate levels.    El peruano did not specify what these levels were.    El peruano quoted energy and mines minister Wilfredo Huaytaas saying that Peru did not want to participate in speculativeoperations with silver.    He said the government's aim was to avoid a "brutal fall" inthe price of silver.    Figueroa's office confirmed the Peruvian central bankpresident had travelled to mexico city. It was not certain ifhe had returned to Lima by midday today. Reuter
PERU TO MAINTAIN SILVER SALES FREEZE Energy and mines minister, WilfredoHuayta, said Peru would maintain its freeze on new sales ofsilver until the price of the precious metal reaches "the truevalue this raw material should have."    He spoke to reporters at the presidential palace aftermeeting president Alan Garcia, whom he said recently spoke bytelephone with Mexican president Miguel de la Madrid. Mexicoand Peru are the world's two largest silver producers.    Huayta, asked what the true price level of silver shouldbe, repled: "well, this cannot be predicted."    He said Minero Peru Comercial (Minpeco), the government'sminerals marketing arm, would closely study the price of silverin the world market.    Last Tuesday, the government instructed Minpeco, whichhandles all Peru's exports of refined silver and state-produced ore, to immediately freeze all new silver sales untilthe metal's price reached equilibrium in the world market.   Peru plans to produce 63 mln ounces of silver this year, andis the largest producer of the precious metal after Mexico.   Huayta said both nations' central banks would coordinatetheir work, but did not elaborate how they would do this.   Peruvian central bank president Leonel Figueroa and the headof Bank of Mexico, Miguel Mancera Aguayo, met in Mexico Cityyesterday to coordinate actions aimed at consolidating theupward trend in the price of silver, the official newspaper ElPeruano said today.    Huayta said his Mexican counterpart, minister of oil, minesand parastatal industry, Alfredo del Mazo, should be in Lima ona visit at a nearby date.   Huayta added Peru did not want to see great fluctuations inthe price of silver, but declined to comment on what Peru wouldlike to see as a ceiling for the precious metal's price.   Silver bullion climbed to nearly 10.00 dlrs an ounce todayfrom about 5.70 dlrs an ounce a month ago. Reuter
PERU PRESIDENT WARNS OF RETALIATION ON SILVER The Peruvian government's freeze on silversales, which has contributed to a sharp boost in the metal'sprice, could draw retaliation by rich nations and big tradersseeking lower prices, President Alan Garcia said.    Peru, the world's second biggest silver producer, stoppedselling its refined silver and state-marketed ore on tuesday.Since then, the metal's price has risen to its highest level innearly three years. It closed today at over nine dlrs an ounceon world markets.    Garcia said the move showed that a small nation like Perucould move international markets and did not have to acceptcheap prices for silver, traditionally one of the top revenueearners of the country.    Peru exported its refined silver last year at an averageprice of 5.40 dlrs a troy ounce. As recently as one month ago,silver bullion was trading for about 5.70 dlrs an ounce onworld markets.    "One thing is that Peru, which produces silver, sells itsilently and in a submissive manner at the price world marketswant," he told reporters at the presidential palace.    "The other is that a nationalist government says, 'wait amoment I can't sell silver at these prices,'" he added.    The peruvian energy and mines minister, Wilfredo Huayta,said the government would maintain its freeze on new sales ofsilver until the price of the metal reaches "the true value thisraw material should have." He did not specify this level.    Garcia said rich nations and big traders, faced with Peru'sstance, could try to defend themselves.    "They have some stocks, they have silver deposits, they canmake fictitious sales and that way try to make the price of ourmineral fall in the world market," Garcia said.    "Whatever manoeuvre they take will be answered by Peru," hesaid. "Peru is in a position of action."    President Garcia had recently spoken by telephone withMexican President Miguel de la Madrid, Huayta said. Mexico isthe world's biggest producer of silver.    Mexico and Peru together produce nearly nearly 40 pct ofthe world's silver, the official newspaper El Peruano said.    The newspaper added that Peruvian central bank presidentLeonel Figueroa and the head of the central bank of Mexico,Miguel Mancera Aguayo, met in Mexico City yesterday tocoordinate actions aimed at consolidating the upward trend ofthe price of the metal.    Analysts in Zurich, a major silver trading centre, saidtoday the rally in silver prices was also fuelled by investorsbuying the metal to protect themselves against inflation, whichthey fear could be rekindled by the dollar's weakness.    On an historical basis, silver is still relatively cheapcompared to gold, which some investors believe could set thestage for further rises, they said. Reuter
MEXICO SILVER POLICIES UNCHANGED, OFFICIALS SAY Mexico's policies for silverproduction and sales have not changed despite Peru's decisionlast week to freeze its silver sales, government mining andcentral bank officials said.    The officials also expressed doubt that such a policychange was in the works.    Mexico is the world's leading silver producer and had anoutput of about 73.9 mln troy ounces last year, according topreliminary government figures.    Peru, the world's second leading silver producer, last weeksuspended sales of the precious metal in what authorities inLima said was an effort to protect its price in an unstablemarket.    Since the decision, Peruvian officials have said they willdiscuss cooperation in the silver market with Mexican officialsin scheduled meetings.    Last week, Peruvian central bank president Leonel Figueroaand the head of the central bank of Mexico, Miguel ManceraAguayo met in Mexico City in private talks said aimed atconsolidating the upward trend of silver prices.    Mexican minister of energy and mines, Alfredo del Mazo, isalso expected to meet soon with his Peruvian counterpart,Wilfredo Huayta.    However, no Mexican decision has been made to follow thePeruvian example of suspending new silver sales, Mexicanofficials said.    One Mexican mining sector official working closely with thegovernment's production and sales policy told Reuters therehave been no changes in policy handed down by the central bank.    "The same policy that has been followed will be continued,"said the official, who asked not to be further identified.    A spokesman for the central bank said the bank had noinformation on any silver policy changes.    An energy and mines ministry spokesman and an official inthe ministry's metallurgy department also said no governmentsilver policy change had been made.    The mining sector official also said he doubted Mexicowould follow Peru's policy, reasoning that if the twogovernments had intended to coordinate silver policies, Mexicowould have announced a sales suspension along with Peru lastweek.    "It's very probable a change won't be made," the officialsaid. Reuter
LITTLE REACTION TO COMEX PRICE LIMIT REMOVAL The elimination of price limits onprecious metals contracts trading at the Commodity Exchange inNew York appears to be having little effect on the market,analysts said.    "There is nothing apparent from the change," said WilliamO'Neill, director of futures research at Elders Futures Inc."The market has not approached the old price limits and tradingis relative quiet, in narrow ranges," he added.    Gold futures, which previously had a limit of 25 dlrs onmarket moves in most back months, were about 7.00 dlrs weakerin the nearby contracts amid thin conditions, traders said.    On May 5, COMEX did away with price limits on the twocontracts following spot after a volatile market in silverfutures at the end of April caused severe disruptions.    During the last week of April, silver futures traded up anddown the price limit in the back months, causing traders torush into the spot contract to offset those moves, analystssaid.  As a result, Elders' O'Neill said, there was muchconfusion, many unmatched trades, and large losses.    The COMEX fined Elders Futures and three other large firmsa total of 100,000 dlrs for failure to resolve unmatched tradesin a timely manner.    Silver futures were trading about 30-40 cts weaker in thenearby contracts amid quiet trading today.    O'Neill said the elimination of price limits on all COMEXmetals futures would add caution to trading since all contractscould move any distance.    "This is amore realistic approach because the metals marketis a 24 hours market and prices can move without limit,"O'Neill said.    Paul Cain, a vice president at Shearson Lehman Brothers,said the elimination of price limits will cut back on panicbuying or selling  and contribute to more orderly markets.    Reuter
LITTLE REACTION TO REMOVAL COMEX DAILY LIMITS The elimination of limits on daily pricefluctuations for metals futures contracts traded on theCommodity Exchange, COMEX, appears to be having little effecton the market, analysts said.    "There is nothing apparent from the change," said WilliamO'Neill, director of futures research at Elders Futures Inc.    "The market has not approached the old price limits andtrading is relative quiet, in narrow ranges," he said.    On May 5, COMEX eliminated price limits on the twocontracts following each spot delivery in gold, silver, copperand aluminum futures after a review of its clearing operations,which were severely tested by a volatile market in silverfutures at the end of April. COMEX announced Friday the liftingof all daily limits, effective today.    Gold futures, which previously had a limit of 25 dlrs perounce in most back months, were about 7.00 dlrs weaker in thenearby contracts amid thin volume conditions, traders said.    Silver futures, previously limited at 50 cents in most backmonths, were trading about 30-40 cts weaker in the nearbycontracts amid quiet trading today.    During the last week of April, silver futures often tradedat the daily allowable limit amid concerns about inflation, thedollar, and other factors. Traders rushed into the spot, orunlimited, contract to offset those moves, analysts said.    As a result, O'Neill said, there was much confusion, manyunmatched trades, and large losses for some traders.    The COMEX fined four large firms a total of 100,000 dlrsfor failure to resolve unmatched trades in a timely manner.    Paul Cain, a vice president at Shearson Lehman Brothers,said the elimination of price limits will cut back on panicbuying or selling and contribute to more orderly markets.    O'Neill added that the elimination of daily limits wouldadd caution to trading.    "This is a more realistic approach because the metalsmarket is a 24 hours market and prices can move without limit,"O'Neill said. Reuter
U.S. GOLD, SILVER, PLATINUM SOAR ON VOLCKER REJECTION OF  The International Cocoa Organization(ICCO) buffer stock manager bought 5,000 tonnes of cocoa todayfor the buffer stock, traders said.    The cocoa is believed to have been entirely made up ofsecond hand material, they added.    Such a purchase would bring cumulative buffer stockpurchases to 26,000 tonnes. Reuter
AUSTRALIA TO PRODUCE SILVER AND PLATINUM COINS The Australian government has givensupport in principle to the production of platinum and silverbullion coins at the Perth Mint, Treasurer Paul Keating said.    This followed the success of the Australian Nugget goldbullion coins launched this year, he said in a statement.    He said that, as with the Australian nuggets, the coinswould be legal tender. The platinum coins would be made in fourweights but the silver coin would be of one ounce weight.    He said detailed arrangements for their issue would befinalised after talks between the Federal authorities and theWestern Australian government, owner of the Perth Mint. REUTER
U.S. MINERALS <USMX.O> COMMISSIONS NEW GOLD MINE U.S. Minerals Exploration Co said it andPegasus Gold Inc <PGUL.O> of Spokane, Wash, officiallycommissioned a new gold, zinc and lead producing mine.    U.S. Minerals said the new Montana Tunnels Mine nearHelena, Mont, is expected to reach full production in August1987. U.S. Minerals said the mine is designed to operate at anaverage of 12,500 tons or ore per day and is projected toproduce 95,000 ounces of gold in 1988, plus significantquantities of silver, lead and zinc.    U.S. Minerals said it has a 50 pct net profit royaltyinterest in the mine after payback of development costs. Reuter
ARIZONA SILVER <ASC> REPORTS ON BURRO CREEK Arizona Silver Corpsaid diamond drilling on its Burro Creek Mine Property, located65 miles southeast of Kingman, Ariz., has begun.    The company said a report indicated that the Burro Creekproject area which covers 800 acres, could have potentialreserves of three to four mln tons of gold and silvermineralization.    Drill sites have been established and a diamond drillingprogram consisting of an initial 5,000 feet of drilling beganOctober 13, the company said. Reuter
