PRIMARY EUROSTERLING MARKET BOOMS DESPITE RATE CUT Two new eurosterling bonds were launchedtoday, making a total of 10 new deals in the sector so far thismonth, as borrowers rush to cash in on a bull sterling marketfueled by the strength of the pound and pre-budget euphoria.    The Bank of England finally gave way to a 1/2 point cut inbanks' base lending rates earlier today, but dealers said thishad been largely discounted and was not likely to detract fromthe current popularity of sterling-denominated investments.    "Sterling, in any shape or form, is flavor of the month andwe're set to see many more eurosterling deals," one dealer said.    Today's new eurosterling bonds were a 10-year, 100 mln stgdeal for Sweden at 9-1/2 pct and priced at 101-1/4 pct, lead byBaring Brothers and Co Ltd and a 14 year 60 mln stg convertibledeal for Storehouse Plc launched by SBCI International Ltd. "Wethought we saw a proverbial flood of new deals with the 14 wehad last month but it seems March will beat February hands downwith 10 already," one eurosterling specialist said.    "Optically, psychologically, these single figures are muchmore attractive for the borrower. Eurosterling looks like acheap and attractive way to raise your money," he added.    This accounts for the wide variety of borrowers who havetapped the sector recently, ranging from sovereigns such as theKingdom of Sweden today, continental banks includingCommerzbank and Deutsche Bank and British corporations.    Another U.K. Merchant bank analyst noted that the currentvogue for eurosterling enabled several corporate borrowers lastmonth to offer paper priced below comparative gilt yields.    A Storehouse official confirmed that the issue was aimed atSwiss and German investors who were showing good interest.    This is the first entry into the long term internationalcapital markets by Storehouse, British designer TerenceConran's retail conglomerate which incorporates U.K. Chainstores Mothercare, British Home Stores and Habitat.    "We have been considering the move for quite some time nowand the current strength of the eurosterling sector providedthe perfect opportunity and spur for us to finally tap themarket," Lance Moir, corporate treasurer at Storehouse Plc toldReuters.
POUND AND CANADIAN DOLLAR CAPTURING ATTENTION Interest in the currency futures markethas shifted to the soaring British pound and the potentiallyexplosive Canadian dollar, and away from the dull Continentaland Japanese currencies, analysts said.    The June pound, which added 6.3 cents over the pastweek-and-a-half to reach a new contract high of 1.5930 to thedollar on Monday, has spawned a new-found speculative boom.    "Brokers have to push their clients somewhere...andtechnically, the pound is in the best shape," PaineWebberanalyst Jason Gillard said.    "We've tried to take a bullish approach to the pound, andwe're going to stay with that, there's no reason to change,"Smith Barney analyst Craig Sloane said.    Many traders took on long pound/short West German markfutures positions, although some of those cross-trades wereliquidated yesterday, Sloane said.     The fundamental keys to the pound's rise have beenrelatively high U.K. interest rates and a vague optimismsurrounding the British economy, analysts said.    "Money seems to be chasing yields," William Byers, of BearStearns, said of the 10-1/2 pct U.K. base lending rate.    Many analysts are skeptical about further gains in thepound, on the inference that the Bank of England will seek torelieve upward pressure on the currency by pushing downinterest rates after the nation's budget is released March 17.    The budget itself could have an impact, depending on howwell it is received, but analysts say relative interest ratesand oil income remain the main influences on the currency.    However, the market may be able to absorb lower U.K.interest rates, as it has done when other countries have cuttheir discount rates, and extend the pound's rally, Sloanesaid.    The Canadian dollar has not been rising like the pound, butSloane and other analysts cautiously predicted a big move soon.    The sideways price pattern in the June contract, withsmaller and smaller price ranges, has formed a "bull flag" onprice charts, technically-oriented analysts said.    "It makes for an explosive type of situation that oftenleads to a breakout," in this case to the upside, Sloane said.    Byers agreed there was potential for the June Canadiandollar to rally above the 77.00 cent level from the most recentclose at 74.80 cents to the U.S. dollar.    "At this stage of the game I'd call the market long-termpositive, but for the technical burden of proof you need aclose above (the previous contract high of) 75.25," Byers said.    As to the traditionally more active currencies, stabilitywas the catchword and reluctance the watchword among analysts.    Sloane said it was important that June Swiss francs andJune German marks held above support at 0.6400 and 0.5400,respectively, closing at 0.6438 and 0.5430.    Yesterday's rebound showed the market was still veryrespectful of the Paris accord, and the threat of central bankintervention by the G-5 nations plus Canada.    "We may still probe to see what the parameters are," Byerssaid, "but people are very reluctant because they don't knowwhere the central banks will be (to intervene)."    Gillard said the mark could drop to a previous priceconsolidation area around 0.5250 based on the profoundlysluggish West German economy, but that he would be a buyer atthat level. Reuter
DEALERS WARY OVER STERLING INTERVENTION RUMOUR Foreign exchange market rumours that thethe Bank of England has been selling sterling to halt its riseprompted a wary response from dealers who said they saw noobvious confirmation, market sources said.    Bank of England officials were not immediately availablefor comment. Earlier this week, the Bank sanctioned a cut inbank interest rates in a surprise move, which aimed at limitingsterling's rise ahead of the March 17 budget.    But today the pound has strengthened to 72.7 on itstrade-weighted index from 72.1 last night, though the U.K.Currency is below its day's high against the dollar. REUTER
LAWSON SAYS HE IS CONTENT WITH CURRENT STERLING EXCHA Talks are underway between financiallytroubled Zaire and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) aimedat rescuing the economy of the second largest nation insub-Saharan Africa.    Diplomatic and banking sources in Kinshasa agreed that acompromise formula could be reached in the coming weeksenabling pro-Western Zaire to obtain a much needed injection ofcash.    For its part the government is expected to increasebudgetary discipline, which in turn is likely to attractforeign investors, the sources said.    "Barring last-ditch obstacles, which can't be totally ruledout in an issue involving a nation's pride and substantialpolitical and economic interests, Zaire and its creditors arebound to come to terms soon," a Western diplomat told Reuters.    "The Zairean economy won't survive without massive IMFassistance. Similarily, the West has no interest to see Zaire'sstrategic minerals fall into communist hands," the diplomatsaid.    Zaire defied its creditors late last year by saying itwould limit repayments on its five billion dlr external debt to10 pct of its export earnings from January 1987.    The government also announced an end to the floatingexchange rate for the zaire currency and a return to a fixedparity against special drawing rights (SDRs) with periodicadjustments.    Until last year, Zaire devoted up to 28 pct of its exportrevenue to servicing large foreign debts contracted during thecopper boom of the 1970's to finance largely non-productive andoften extravagant investment projects.    Zaire, the world's leading cobalt producer and the sixthlargest supplier of copper, depends on the two minerals fortwo-thirds of its export earnings.    "A young country cannot go on indefinitely sacrificingeverything for the sake of servicing its external debt,"President Mobutu Sese Seko commented in October when heannounced his government's decision.    As early as January 1986, Mobutu had warned that "one doesnot feed on austerity and praise. I have another debt, onetoward my people and my people's efforts must not backfire," hetold diplomats.    Zaire pointed out that during four years of IMF-backedausterity (1983-86), it had become a net exporter of capitalwithout receiving appropriate financing from abroad.    Economists said that since the large devaluation of thezaire currency in September 1983, the country suffered a netoutflow of 830 mln dlrs each year.    Zaire's medium and long term public debt in the past fewyears reached an equivalent of about 100 pct of its GrossNational Product (GNP), one of the highest such ratios in theworld, banking sources said.    Mobutu accused the IMF of "strangling" his country at anOctober meeting of the ruling MPR party and said his peoplecould not long endure the hardship caused by austerity.    Zairean officials blame their present difficulties on theIMF recovery plan's two basic assumptions which, they said,failed to materialise last year,    - a world economic recovery pushing up commodity prices andboosting Zaire's export revenue and debt servicing capacity,    - substantial, additional financial help from the country'straditional donors.    In 1983 Zaire set out on a major economic reform aimed atcurbing its soaring debt. It floated its currency, slashedspending and privatised industry, gaining praise from Westerncreditors and obtaining debt rescheduling.    As a result, the overall economic and financial situationimproved markedly, with inflation down to 41 pct last year from100 pct in 1983.    But it also led to a severe and steady fall in livingstandards for Zaire's 35 mln population, fuelling widespreaddiscontent among poorer city dwellers, diplomats said.    Economists estimate the drop in purchasing power at between20 and 35 pct for an average household over the last 12 months,despite a pay rise of up to 67 pct for civil servants announcedlast May.    The World Bank has released in the last two months half ofa previously-agreed 80 mln dlrs industrial sector loan and lent27.6 mln dlrs to modernise the country's vital river transportsystem.    Belgium, Zaire's former colonial ruler and its main tradingpartner, recently agreed to release a total of 17 mln dlrs toease payments difficulties and finance imports of spare partsfor industry.    A new agreement between the IMF and Zaire would pave theway for another debt rescheduling, probably at the next meetingof the Paris Club of Western creditor nations, diplomats said. REUTER
LAWSON REPEATS HE IS CONTENT WITH STERLING LEVEL U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigeltoday repeated that he was satisfied with the current level ofsterling, both against the dollar and the West German mark.    Lawson said in a television interview that he did notregard the pound's present exchange rate was uncomfortablyhigh.    "I think it is round about right," he said.    "I think there was a time that they (British manufacturers)thought the (exchange) rate was uncomfortably high. But I thinkthey are very satisfied with the present level."    "But I have made it absolutely clear that I don't want tosee the pound go through the roof," he added. Reuter
STERLING OUTLOOK CLOUDED BY TEST OF PARIS ACCORD The move by foreign exchange markets totest the strength of the Paris currency accord has thrown intoquestion the near-term outlook for sterling, until recently oneof the main beneficiaries of the agreement, analysts said.    Since the six-nation accord last month, sterling has risensharply, adding almost five pct on its trade-weighted index.    While the accord effectively stifled dollar/yen anddollar/mark movements, the markets turned their attention tosterling as foreign investors rushed to take advantage ofrelatively high U.K. Interest rates.    But analysts say the pound has been sidelined by the firsttentative test of the Paris accord seen yesterday.    The market now looks set sooner or later to push the dollardown further in a test of the willingness of central banks tointervene. Analysts say if the banks do not interveneeffectively, the Paris accord could collapse.    "On balance, sterling would be a net sufferer if G-6collapses," Phillips and Drew analyst Stephen Lewis said.    He said sterling would lose out as markets turned theirattention to capital movements whereas previously they had beenrestricted to looking only at the interest yield on currencies.    However, although most analysts and foreign exchangedealers were forecasting a brief period of consolidation oreven retracement for sterling, none were expecting a very sharpdrop in the U.K. Currency.    Sterling remained supported by optimism on the U.K.Political and economic outlook, firmer oil prices andrelatively high interest rates, they said.    Bullish sentiment on the U.K. Economic outlook has beenrunning especially high after last week's budget, seen aspopular both with the markets and with British voters.    Sterling was also supported by signs of a weakening in theWest German and Japanese economies, where growth for 1987 istrailing behind the three pct forecast for the U.K.    Recent opinion polls showing Britain's ruling conservativeparty ahead of opposition parties in popularity have alsosupported the pound.    In addition, sterling has so far shrugged off twohalf-point cuts in U.K. Bank base lending rates in less thantwo weeks. A further half-point cut, widely expected in thenext week or so, has already been largely discounted.    U.K. Base rates, now running at 10 pct, are stillrelatively high compared to other western countries, andanalysts said a further base rate cut to 9-1/2 pct was unlikelyto affect sterling.    Sterling today appeared resilient to the dollar's decline,dropping only slightly on a cross-rate basis.    Worries about renewed turbulence in the foreign exchangemarkets, however, were reflected in the U.K. Government bond(gilt) market, where prices dropped by up to 5/16 point.    Until now foreign investor interest in the gilt market hasbeen one of the major reasons behind the rise in sterling.    Dealers said they expected the pound to hold quietly steadyfor the next few days while the market awaits furtherdevelopments on the dollar and this Thursday's U.K. Currentaccount figures for February.    Market forecasts are for a deficit of around 250 mln stgafter January's small surplus. REUTER
U.K. TRADE FIGURES BUOY HOPES OF INTEREST RATE CUT The release of U.K. February trade datashowing that the current account surplus was a provisional 376mln stg, up from a 73 mln surplus in January, has boosted hopesof an early cut in interest rates, analysts said.    Market forecasts had been for a worse outcome, withexpectations of a deficit in visible trade averaging about 750mln stg, against the official figure of 224 mln stg, sharplynarrower than January's 527 mln deficit.    "The figures are unreservedly good," Chase ManhattanSecurities economist Andrew Wroblewski said.    Sterling rebounded on the trade figures, reversing a weakermorning trend, to stand at 72.1 pct of its trade weighted indexagainst a basket of currencies at midday, unchanged fromyesterday's close but 0.3 points above the 1100 GMT level.    The market had feared that a deteriorating non-oil tradepattern would undermine international support for sterling,which has been the motor behind the recent fall in U.K.Interest rates. Money market sources said the market had begunto doubt that a widely expected drop in bank base lending ratesto 9.5 pct from the present 10.0 pct was really on the cards.    But sentiment now looks to have turned about again.    There now looks to be no danger that the Chancellor of theExchequer Nigel Lawson's forecast of a 1987 current accountdeficit of 2.5 billion stg will be exceeded, said Wroblewski.    Seasonally adjusted figures showed that imports rose inFebruary to 7.16 billion stg from 6.73 billion in January.    Exports rose to a record 6.93 billion from 6.20 billion.    However, Chris Tinker, U.K. Analyst at brokers Phillips andDrew said that the faster rise in exports than imports wouldprove partly aberrational in coming months. He forecast theChancellor's Budget tax cuts would increase consumer expeditureon imported goods.    However, Ian Harwood, economist at Warburg Securities, saidhis firm was sharply revising its 1987 current account deficitforecast in the light of the latest data, cutting one billionstg off the expected full year total to about 1.75 billion stg.    He said news of strong growth in exports of non-oil goodsconfirmed recent bullish surveys among members of theConfederation of British Industry.    The growth in imports appears to be flattening, even ifJanuary's bad weather had curbed consumer spending on overseasgoods and import-intensive stock building among manufactureres,Harwood said.    U.K. Government bonds, or gilts, surged by more than 1/2point on the better-than-expected news, as earlier worriesabout the figures evaporated.    Sterling peaked at a high of 1.6075 dlrs, before settlingto a steady 1.6050 dlrs about 1300 GMT, nearly a cent higherthan the European low of 1.5960.    However, analysts noted that the turnabout in marketsentiment still looks highly vulnerable to political news.    Morning weakness in sterling and the gilt market waslargely attributed to a newspaper opinion poll showing that theConservative government's support was slipping.    The Marplan poll, published in "Today," showed Conservativesupport had fallen to 36 pct, from 38 pct last month, while theAlliance of Liberals and Social Democrats had rallied to 31pct, from 21 pct, to run neck and neck with the Labour Party,whose own support fell from 38 pct.    The poll was taken after the Budget, which was greetedenthusiastically by financial markets but seems to have leftthe voters indifferent, political observers said.    Another regular poll is due tomorrow, and eonomists warnthat today's improved sentiment could be dented if support forPrime Minister Margaret Thatcher slips again.    This upsetting of the markets' political perceptions, whichare all but discounting a Conservative victory in the upcominggeneral election, made them more sensitive to the trade data,Harwood said. "The news did come as a very, very substantialrelief," he said.    However, on the interest rate front, economists cautionthat Lawson might be wary of leaving sterling vulnerable byencouraging another base rate fall. They noted Lawson hadalready got an inflation-reducing cut in mortgage rates inresponse to lower base rates, so domestic political reasons forlower rates have been curtailed. REUTER
PARIS MEET AGREED NOT TO PUBLISH BANDS - LAWSON U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer NigelLawson said the meeting of six major industrial nations inParis last month agreed not to publish any bands in connectionwith their pact to stabilise currencies.    Questioned by a parliamentary select committee about whythe participating countries had not announced any bands, Lawsonreplied, "we all agreed it would be much more sensible not to."When asked whether that meant an informal joint currency floatwith set ranges was arranged in Paris, Lawson said "I do notwant to reveal the precise nature of the agreement, so as notto make it easy for" speculation against the accord.    Lawson said the Paris accord presumed that individualcountries would take corrective action if their currency beganreacting significantly to domestic macroeconomic factors.    But if such movements were due to extraneous factors,Lawson said the other pact countries would come to its aidthrough concerted intervention on the foreign exchanges.    "It is clear that both Germany and Japan are havingdifficulty adjusting to their very large exchange rateappreciations and making their economies more domesticallyoriented, just as it is taking time for the United States tomake its own economy more export oriented," Lawson said.    In his oral evidence to Parliament's Select TreasuryCommittee, Lawson repeated that he was happy with the pound'scurrent level, adding that "It is an objective ... To try tokeep it around that level."    He said the perception of sterling on foreign exchanges hadchanged since the steep drop in oil prices, largely because thepound had weathered that period so successfully. "There has beena reassessment of sterling's fundamentals," Lawson said.  Hedisagreed with what he termed "the grossly exaggerated claim"that real U.K. Interest rates were much higher than those ofother major industrialsed countries.    Using as a reference the key three-month sterling interbankrate as quoted in London, Lawson said Britain now had a realinterest rate level of 5.75 pct - the same as Japan did andonly a 0.75 percentaage point above the Group of Five average.    Lawson confirmed that "over the medium and longer term, thegovernment's objective is zero inflation."    He said the government's intention of its PSBR constant at1.0 pct of GDP "is the modern equivalent of the balanced budgetdoctrine."  He added that "to allow the debt/GDP ratio to remainconstant on anything other than zero inflation basis is simplya recipe for accelerating inflation." Reuter
FINLAND REVISES CURRENCY BASKET The Bank of Finland said it has revisedthe weightings in its currency basket with effect from today.Weightings  match the respective country's share in Finland'sforeign trade.    Weights in percentages compared with former weights.    Dollar  9.0 (8.8)    Sterling 14.3 (13.8)    Swedish crown 20.4 (20.6)    Norwegian crown 5.2 (5.2)    Danish crown 5.2 (5.3)    German mark 19.3 (19.6)REUTER^M
LAWSON TELLS PANEL  HE WANTS STERLING TO STAY ARO The National Association ofSecurities Dealers Inc. denied Kirk Knapp's application tobecome a registered member of the firm.    NASD's board of governors said it denied the application ofKnapp to become registered with K.A. Knapp and Co, located inGrand Rapids, Mich. The board said it based its decision on twostatutory disqualifications.    In the first case, the board said it found Knapp failed tomaintain rquired net capital, filed inaccurate Focus Part 1reports and inaccurately calculated the amount required to beon deposit in the Special Reserve Account.    The second case involved Knapp being enjoined fromviolations of sections of the Securities Exchange Act, the NASDsaid. Reuter
LAWSON WANTS STERLING AROUND 1.60 DLRS, 2.90 MKS U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer NigelLawson said he wanted sterling to stay roughly where it was,specifying a rate of around 2.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs.    He told the National Economic Development Council that therecent Paris meeting of major industrialised nations had agreedon the need for exchange rate stability. There was now a"reasonable alignment of currencies" and the U.K. Governmentintended to keep sterling at about its present level, he said.    That meant around 2.90 marks, which is the single mostimportant rate to concentrate on, and 1.60 dlrs, Lawson said.    His disclosure of two of the key targets for sterling washighly unusual, foreign exchange market analysts said.    In the past he has preferred to be less definite about theGovernment's exchange rate policy, lest it give foreignexchange markets set limits to test.    Lawson told the committee, which is a tripartite forum ofgovernment, unions and industry, that the pound would be keptnear its present level by a mixture of interest rates andintervention in the foreign exchange markets.    The pound finished trading here today at 1.6040/50 dlrs and2.9210/45 marks.    His disclosure of two of the key targets for sterling washighly unusual, foreign exchange market analysts said.    In the past he has preferred to be less definite about theGovernment's exchange rate policy, lest it give foreignexchange markets set limits to test.    Lawson told the committee, which is a tripartite forum ofgovernment, unions and industry, that the pound would be keptnear its present level by a mixture of interest rates andintervention in the foreign exchange markets.    The pound finished trading here today at 1.6040/50 dlrs and2.9210/45 marks. Reuter
U.K. MONEY RATES HARDEN ON LAWSON CURRENCY TARGETS Money market rates rates showed a harderedge after news U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawsonhas set a target for the pound against the mark and dollar, tobe maintained by a mixture of interest rates and interventionin the foreign exchange markets.    Dealers said the market was surprised by the Chancellor'sdisclosure of sterling target rates, around 2.90 marks and 1.60dlrs, and nervous over the implications for domestic interestrates, further reducing the propects for a near term cut inU.K. Bank base rates. The key three months interbank sterlingrate gained 1/16 point at 10 9-7/8 pct.    The pound opened three basis points lower at 71.3 in tradeweighted terms, at around 1.59 dlrs and 2.91 marks. REUTER
U.K. MONEY RATES FIRM ON LAWSON STERLING TARGETS Interest rates on the London money marketwere slightly firmer on news U.K. Chancellor of the ExchequerNigel Lawson had stated target rates for sterling against thedollar and mark, dealers said.    They said this had come as a surprise and expected thetargets, 2.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs, to be promptly tested in theforeign exchange markets. Sterling opened 0.3 points lower intrade weighted terms at 71.3.    Dealers noted the chancellor said he would achieve hisgoals on sterling by a combination of intervention in currencymarkets and interest rates.    Operators feel the foreign exchanges are likely to teststerling on the downside and that this seems to make a fall inU.K. Base lending rates even less likely in the near term,dealers said.    The feeling remains in the market, however, thatfundamental factors have not really changed and that a rise inU.K. Interest rates is not very likely. The market is expectedto continue at around these levels, reflecting the current 10pct base rate level, for some time.    The key three months interbank rate was 1/16 point firmerat 10 9-7/8 pct.
LAWSON REMARKS DASH HOPES OF EARLY U.K. RATE CUT Chancellor of the Exchequer NigelLawson's remarks yesterday suggesting there are preciseexchange rate targets for the pound undermined sterling,dashing hopes for an early cut in U.K. Base rates, analystssaid.    But the market's reaction, testing exchange rate levelsindicated by Lawson, was probably overdone and the longer termoutlook for sterling remained bullish, they agreed.    In an apparent break with the previous policy of secrecy,Lawson told a National Economic Development Council meeting hewas comfortable with sterling exchange rates around currentlevels, specifying rates of around 1.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs.    Lawson added the U.K. Government intended to keep sterlingat about present levels, using currency intervention andinterest rates to achieve this.    The February 22 Paris agreement of the Group of Five andCanada to stabilise exchange rates is widely believed toinclude target ranges, but all participants to the meeting hadso far refused to specify these.    Markets were quick to react to the statement, choppingabout one U.S. Cent and over one pfennig off the pound to matchthe levels mentioned by Lawson.    But most analysts polled said they did not believe Lawson'sstatement signalled a change in U.K. Policy.    Keith Skeoch, chief economist at stockbrokers James Capeland Co, said, "the remarks have been blown out of proportion.Lawson is paying now for a little bit of a slip of the tongue."    Barclays de Zoete Wedd economist Mark Brett said, "there isnothing great and fantastic in the Chancellor's statement."    He said he did not believe the rates indicated by theChancellor were precise targets, but merely represented centralrates around which sterling would be allowed to fluctuate,perhaps by as much as 10 pct.    "It would be insane to pinpoint an exchange rate ahead of anelection ... I don't believe Lawson is mad enough to tiehimself to a fixed rate," Brett said.    Currency markets were keen for official statements toclarify the scope of the Paris accord and reactivate currencytrading. This mood easily led to over-reaction, analysts said.    "Making similar statements when the market is high strungand ready to bounce is perhaps a mistake," one senior dealerwith a U.S. Bank said.    Capel's Skeoch said, "it gives the foreign exchange marketssomething to shoot at."    "It is obvious that the government, as a member of the Groupof Six, has agreed exchange rate bands. But they are not cut instone, they can change with time," Skeoch said.    Brett said, "we think the 2.90 marks level is a centralrate. Give or take 10 pfennigs and all is fine."    Not all analysts played down the significance of theremarks, however. Chris Dunn, economist at Royal Bank ofCanada, said the remarks may signal a decisive move to insulatesterling from the fortunes of the dollar.    Although about two-thirds of Britain's trade is conductedwith European countries, sterling has traditionally shadowedthe dollar rather than the mark, analysts noted.    "Britain must decide whether it wants to follow the U.S. Orthrow in its lot with Europe," Dunn said.    "It suggests that while the U.K. Is not actually applying tojoin the European Monetary System, it is seeking protection byshadowing it ... The Bundesbank has made it clear that it wantsthe U.K. To clarify its position relative to the mark," he said.    Analysts said sterling's dip on currency markets followingLawson's remarks made an early half-point cut in U.K. Baserates from current 10 pct levels unlikely in the short term.    "Over the next three weeks, a cut is out, unless we get someextremely good economic indicators," Capel's Skeoch said.    Base rates have been cut twice by one-half point in March,the last after the March 17 budget presentation, and analystshad been expecting another half point cut shortly afterwards. REUTER
 Lawson says his sterling target comments were misunderstood, and insig The stock of International BusinessMachine Corp declined slightly today and shares of DigitalEquipment Corp <DEC> rose after brokerage house Morgan Stanleyand Co reiterated a negative opinion on IBM and a buy onDigital, traders said.    IBM, which this morning introduced four new personalcomputers, the first major overhaul of its PC line since itentered the business in 1981, fell 1-3/4 to 149-3/8.    Digital Equipment rose 1-3/8 to 163-5/8.    Analyst Carol Muratore of Morgan Stanley was unavailablefor comment.
LAWSON SAYS HIS STERLING-TARGET COMMENTS WERE MISUNDERSTOOD AND INSIG U.S. Agriculture Secretary RichardLyng said he would not agree to an extension of the 18-monthwhole dairy herd buyout program set to expire later this year.    Speaking at the Agriculture Department to representativesof the U.S. National Cattlemen's Association, Lyng said somedairymen asked the program be extended.    But he said the Reagan administration, which opposed thewhole herd buyout program in the 1985 farm bill, would notagree to an extension.    The program begun in early 1986, is to be completed thissummer. U.S. cattlemen bitterly opposed the scheme, complainingthat increased dairy cow slaughter drove cattle prices downlast year. Reuter
LAWSON SAYS STERLING TARGET COMMENTS INSIGNIFICANT Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawsoncriticised media coverage of comments he made yesterday, whenhe was reported as saying he wanted sterling to stay roughlywhere it was, specifying a rate of around 2.90 marks and 1.60dlrs to the pound.    Holding up a newspaper report on his comments headed"Exchange Rate Targets Set" Lawson told journalists "This story isa complete non-event."    He criticised the report, which said he was now targettingsterling against the dollar and mark. "Nothing of the sortoccurred," Lawson said.    Lawson said he had only told National Economic DevelopmentCouncil panel members what the pound's current dollar/markrates were that day, after saying he was happy with currentsterling levels. He said he had told the NEDC, a tripartiteforum of government, unions and industry, that the pound wouldbe kept near its present level by a mixture of interest ratesand intervention on foreign exchange markets.    He then repeated to the panel that he remained satisfedwith sterling at around its current levels following the Parisaccord in February on currency stabilisation. REUTER
LAWSON SAYS STERLING COMMENTS INSIGNIFICANT Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawsoncriticised media coverage of comments he made yesterday, whenhe was reported as saying he wanted sterling to stay roughlywhere it was, specifying a rate of around 2.90 marks and 1.60dlrs to the pound.    Holding up a newspaper report on his comments headed"Exchange Rate Targets Set" Lawson told journalists "This story isa complete non-event."    He criticised the report, which said he was now targettingsterling against the dollar and mark. "Nothing of the sortoccurred," Lawson said.    Lawson said he had only told National Economic DevelopmentCouncil panel members what the pound's current dollar/markrates were that day, after saying he was happy with currentsterling levels. He said he had told the NEDC, a tripartiteforum of government, unions and industry, that the pound wouldbe kept near its present level by a mixture of interest ratesand intervention on foreign exchange markets.    He then repeated to the panel that he remained satisfedwith sterling at around its current levels following the Parisaccord in February on currency stabilisation. Reuter
STERLING REBOUNDS ON LAWSON "TARGET"-DENIAL Sterling made a sharp recovery when U.K.Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson described remarks hemade yesterday on targets for the pound as "insignificant,"rallying back up almost exactly to the levels it had fetchedbefore Lawson spoke yesterday, dealers and analysts said.    They said sterling would likely leave the limelight onceagain to trade quietly around current levels, as the marketsset their sights on the dollar, yen and mark again ahead of keyinternational monetary talks in Washington next week.    Sterling ended its European day at 1.6020/30 dlrs,virtually unchanged from yesterday's last 1.6040/50 dlrs,fetched before Lawson's first comment. But it was well up onlevels just above 1.59 dlrs which it had held until the secondcomment came.    Against the mark, sterling recovered to close at2.9190/9240 marks after today's opening 2.9040/90 and lastnight's 2.9210/45.    "On balance, it is as if nothing happened ... We are back towhere we were before," Mark Brett, economist at securities houseBarclays de Zoete Wedd said.    "This whole story is like a storm in a teacup," a dealer witha U.K. Bank commented.    The pound's recovery was triggered when Lawson criticisedmedia coverage of comments he made yesterday, when he told aconference he wanted sterling to stay roughly where it was.    In this context, Lawson was reported to have specifiedrates of around 2.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs to the pound inremarks which markets were quick to interpret as a signal tosell sterling.    Lawson said today he had merely stated yesterday'sapproximate value of the pound.    "The wrong end of the stick was picked up," he toldreporters, adding his comments did in no way signal a change inBritish exchange rate policies.    Dealers and analysts said the reactions to both statementswere clear evidence that the market, frustrated by the relativecurrency stability after the February 22 Paris agreement, wasdesperate to reactivate trading and would react to any cluesoffered about the contents of the currency accord.    In Paris, finance ministers of the Group of Five and Canadaare widely believed to have agreed exchange rate targets,although no participant has specified these in an apparent bidto foster stability by keeping markets guessing.    "The markets are absolutely desperate to get clues on Groupof Six (countries that are part to the Paris agreement) targets... The number of rumours flying around is bigger than everbefore," said Barclays de Zoete Wedd's Brett.    Analysts said neither yesterday's remarks nor today's hadchanged their impression that after Paris, sterling wastargeted to trade in broad ranges against major currencies.     All polled analysts said if anything, the 2.90 marks levelmentioned by Lawson was probably the centre of a wide20-pfennig range which sterling would easily hold, helped bygood economic indicators and relatively high interest rates.    "It would be insane to pinpoint an exchange rate ahead of anelection ... I don't believe Lawson is mad enough to tiehimself to a fixed rate," Brett said. He expected sterling tofirm over the next few weeks, to around 2.95 marks and 1.63dlrs, as overseas investors reappraised high-yieldinginvestments here.    Robin Marshall, chief economist at Chase ManhattanSecurities, said he was not surprised to see Lawson qualify hissterling target comments so quickly.    "His remarks gave markets a target to aim at," he said,adding, "He (Lawson) talked himself into a bit of a corner onthis ... It made him a hostage to fortune."    Marshall and other analysts dismissed a theory, that byquoting target rates Lawson had attempted to put pressure onprime Minister Margaret Thatcher to agree to British membershipof the European Monetary System (EMS), as implausible. Reuter
CURRENCY FUTURES TO KEY OFF G-5, G-7 MEETINGS News of an agreement among G-5 and G-7finance ministers meeting in Washington this week will be keyto the direction of currency futures at the InternationalMonetary Market, but any such agreement will need to go beyondthe Paris accord to stem the recent rise in futures, financialanalysts said.    "If they (the finance ministers) give the market somethingreally new to look at -- that is, some package that goes beyondthe Paris agreement -- you could have a real boost in thedollar," said Shearson Lehman Brothers analyst Anne Mills.    On the other hand, "anything neutral would tend to bebearish for the dollar," Mills said.    Traders and analysts agree a simple reaffirmation of theParis accord will not be enough to halt the decline in thedollar, nor will central bank intervention.    "A lot of people are looking for a reason to buy currenciesand sell the dollar," said one trader for a large retail firmon the floor of the IMM.    "If there is no concrete resolution, they will be lookingto sell the dollar, possibly down to the 1.80 mark level," hesaid.    Technically, most currency futures are poised for anotherrise, said Smith Barney Harris Upham analyst Craig Sloane.    Sloane noted that June yen futures set a new contract highon Tuesday and closed at its best level ever, while Junesterling set a new contract high on Monday.    "Everything seems to be coming to a head right now and youdon't need much to get things rolling," Sloane said.    In particular, the June Canadian dollar, for which Sloanerecently put out a buy recommendation, has hovered in a rangebetween 0.7600 and 0.7660 in recent weeks, forming a triangleon the charts from which it may soon break out on the upside.    A close above the contract high of 0.7665 would signal abreakout, Sloane said, and would likely mean the nearbyCanadian dollar contract would extend its advance to near the0.7800 level. June Canadian dollar closed at 0.7656 Tuesday.    Mills noted, however, that interest rate differentialsbetween Canadian securities and U.S. securities have narroweddramatically recently, with yields on 10-year Canadian bondsonly about 80 basis points above U.S. 10-year notes.    What has helped the Canadian currency, she noted, is anincreasing proportion of foreign funds flowing into theCanadian equity market, particularly from Japanese investors.    Other analysts, however, said currency futures may be nearthe top of their long-term rally.    "Something will be done at the (G-5 and G-7) meeting tocalm people," said David Horner of Merrill Lynch Economics.    The Paris accord has pretty much fixed where major Europeancurrencies will trade, Horner said.    But sterling futures may still make another run for newhighs, up to 1.6300 to 1.6500 dlr in the June contract, on thepositive atmosphere that will prevail before British electionsand possibly another interest rate cut, Horner said. The JuneBritish pound closed at 1.6080 on Tuesday.    Horner said that new boundaries for the trading range ofthe yen are likely to come out of the G-5 and G-7 meetings.    The most likely range will be a bottom for the dollarbetween 140 to 142 yen per dollar and a top near 150 to 152yen, Horner said. In yen futures, the bottom of the dollar'srange would be equivalent to 0.007100 to 0.007150 in the Junecontract. June yen closed at 0.006913 on Tuesday.    If such a range does emerge from the meetings, "we willhave one more rally in the yen," Horner said. Reuter
NERVOUS CONSOLIDATION SEEN IN CURRENCY FUTURES Currency futures at the InternationalMonetary Market (IMM) are likely to consolidate near currentlevels in nervous trading conditions over the next few days,although underlying sentiment remains positive, currencyanalysts said.    "Currencies are likely to muddle around these levels," saidShearson Lehman Brothers analyst Anne Parker Mills.    Traders are unwilling to establish either long or shortpositions in futures because of uncertainty over upcoming tradetalks and U.S. trade legislation, they said.    Japanese prime minister Yasuhiro Nakasone and PresidentReagan will meet Thursday and Friday to discuss trade tensionsbetween their two countries, while at the same time theDemocratic-led U.S. House of Representatives will be voting ona controversial trade bill.    "Unless something really surprising comes out of theNakasone/Reagan talks, I don't see the dollar getting above 142(yen) and 1.83 (marks)," Mills said.    The equivalent in futures of those interbank levels areabout 0.007050 to 0.007025 in the June yen contract and about0.5500 in June marks, she said.    June yen closed at 0.007191 on Tuesday while June marksfinished the day at 0.5602.    Mills said, however, that "the chances of them (Reagan andNakasone) coming up with something new are limited." Onepossibility might be a Japanese discount rate cut, but "theyprobably won't do that unless we raise our discount rate."    Recent firmness in the federal funds rate and the FederalReserve's slowness in adding reserves to the banking system hasheightened sentiment that the money-policy making body hasalready tightened credit and a discount rate hike is possible,analysts said.    Recent weakness in currencies and strength in the dollarhas been more the result of nervous shortcovering ahead of themeeting rather than reaction to the White House statementMonday supporting a stable dollar, said Harris bank currencyanalyst Earl Johnson.    Traders "are worried about the outcome of the talks betweenReagan and Nakasone," and as the talks are late in the week,the market may not get a chance to react to any developmentsuntil Monday, Johnson said.    Until then, Johnson expects the dollar to remain in a broadrange between 1.77 and 1.85 marks and 137 to 140.50 yen.    Chicago Corp analyst John Bilson, however, expects a rallyin the European currencies over the near-term, while the yen,at this point is overbought.    "The Japanese are moving away from the U.S. market," andinvestment funds formerly directed to the U.S. are likely toflow into Europe, Bilson said.    The chief beneficiary of such a flow of funds will besterling, Bilson said.    "Sterling rates are about four pct above Japanese rates,despite the half point rate cut," Bilson said. Major U.K. bankslowered their base lending rates today to 9.5 pct.    In addition to a favorable interest rate spread whichshould attract funds, Bilson said the firm oil market and thestrong political situation of Prime Minister Thatcher also makeBritish investments attractive.    Passage of the trade bill, which includes an amendment byMissouri Democrat Richard Gephardt that would force a 10 pctannual cut in imports from countries with an excessive tradesurplus with the U.S. if they fail to remove unfair tradebarriers to the U.S. after six months of negatiations, wouldlikely pressure the yen, Bilson said.    Bilson, however, said the legislation is unlikely to pass,but that Nakasone is likely to bring a promise to open Japanesemarkets to U.S. goods and back it up with government contractswith U.S. manufacturers. Reuter
