BLACK MINERS SUPPORT S. AFRICAN MINES TAKEOVER Thousands of blackmineworkers roared support for a union proposal to seizecontrol of South Africa's gold, uranium, platinum and coalmines if the owners refuse to improve conditions for migrantblack workers.    About 15,000 miners attended a rally here to endorse movesproposed by last week's annual meeting of the 200,000 strongNational Union of Mineworkers (NUM).    They also supported a proposal for a national strike at theend of this month if the owners refused to begin negotiations.    Migrant workers from surrounding countries make up morethan half of the labour force in the mines.    It was not stated how the union would "seize control."    The miners' leaders also demanded an end to the system ofsingle sex hostels for migrant workers, to be replaced byhousing schemes so that workers could live with their families.    The crowd, one of the largest to attend a meeting sinceSouth Africa declared a state of emergency last June, alsoshouted approval of a proposal to work closely withanti-apartheid movements such as the United Democratic Front(UDF) which claims two mln members. They also shouted theirsupport for a demand that jailed black nationalist leaderNelson Mandela be released. REUTER
EC OPENS ANTI-DUMPING ENQUIRY INTO SOVIET MERCURY The European Community Commission saidit has opened an enquiry into allegations that the Soviet Unionis dumping mercury on the European market at below-cost prices.    The Commission said its decision follows a complaint fromEC non-ferrous metals producers that the sales of Sovietmercury were harming their business and threatening jobs in theEuropean industry.    According to the complaint, Soviet mercury sales in the EChad risen from zero in recent years to 100 tonnes betweenAugust and October last year and threaten to capture 25 pct ofthe EC market if they continue at the same pace.    The industry said the mercury was being sold at more than40 pct below prices charged by EC producers, forcing them tocut their prices to levels that no longer covered costs. Theimports had caused producers heavy financial losses, it said.    The Commission said the industry would probably be unableto hold prices at current levels and that any increase wouldresult in loss of sales and jobs.    The so-called anti-dumping procedure opened by theCommission will allow all interested parties to state theircases to the authority. REUTER
ZAMBIAN LATE 1986 COPPER OUTPUT UP, SALES DOWN Zambian copper production rose 3.2 pct to113,275 tonnes in fourth quarter 1986 from 109,767 in the same1985 period but sales fell 18.7 pct to 119,967 tonnes from147,537, Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines, ZCCM, said.    A spokesman for the government-controlled mining companysaid the country's cobalt production fell 24 pct to 879 tonnesover the same period, while cobalt sales rose 92 pct to 1,734tonnes. He did not give figures for the fourth quarter of 1985.    Lead production fell 22.9 pct to 1,670 tonnes from 2,165and zinc production dropped 14 pct to 4,830 tonnes, he added.    ZCCM, which monopolises copper mining in Zambia andaccounts for about 90 pct of the country's foreign exchangeearnings, made a net loss of 718 mln kwacha in 1986 comparedwith a net profit of 19 mln kwacha the previous year.    The 1986 losses were after taking into account net interestpayments of 426 mln kwacha, an exchange loss of 412 mln kwachaand taxes of 235 mln kwacha. Reuter
U.S. TREASURY PROPOSES SOME S. AFRICAN IMPORTS The Treasury proposed allowing temporary imports of South African uranium ore and uraniumoxide until July 1 under certain conditions pendingclarification of anti-apartheid laws passed by Congress lastfall.    The proposal to be published in the Federal Register nextweek requests written congressional and public comment within60 days and deals with uranium ore and oxide that is importedfor U.S. processing and exporting to third countries.    The Treasury said it proposed allowing the temporaryimports because it felt Congress had not intended when itpassed the comprehensive South African sanctions bill last fall-- overriding President Reagan's veto -- to hurt U.S. industry.    "The domestic uranium conversion industry and the federalgovernment's enrichment industry could be seriously injured ina manner not intended by Congress if the . . . import ban onuranium ore and oxide were implemented to bar imports forprocessing and export through a mistaken interpretation of theact," the Treasury brief said.    The Treasury said an outright U.S. ban of uranium ore andoxide might cause foreign electric utilities to divert theirSouth African origin ore and oxide to other countries includingthe Soviet Union for processing.    Treasury said it would allow imports of the South Africanore and oxide until July 1 for processing and re-export"provided that the imported ore or oxide is accompanies by alicense for importation issued by the Nuclear RegulatoryCommission."    The Treasury brief also proposed allowing U.S.-origin goodsto be imported temporarily from South African state-controlledorganizations for repair or servicing in the United States.    "The U.S. Customs will allow such importation to be madeunder bond," the brief said.    The South African sanctions law, enacted by the UnitedStates to protest the apartheid laws of racial segregationpracticed by South Africa's white minority government,prohibited imports of uranium ore and oxide, iron and steel,coal and textiles at the end of 1986. Reuter
U.S. TREASURY PROPOSES S.AFRICAN URANIUM IMPORTS The U.S. Treasury proposed allowing temporary imports of South African uranium ore and uraniumoxide until July 1 under certain conditions pendingclarification of anti-apartheid laws passed by Congress lastfall.    The Treasury said it proposed allowing the temporaryimports because it felt Congress had not intended when itpassed the comprehensive South African sanctions bill last fall-- overriding President Reagan's veto -- to hurt U.S. industry.    The Treasury said an outright U.S. ban of uranium ore andoxide might cause foreign electric utilities to divert theirSouth African origin ore and oxide to other countries includingthe Soviet Union for processing.    The Treasury also proposed allowing U.S.-origin goods to beimported temporarily from South African state-controlledorganizations for repair or servicing in the U.S.    The South African sanctions law, enacted by the U.S. toprotest the apartheid laws of racial segregation practiced bySouth Africa's white minority government, prohibited imports ofuranium ore and oxide, iron and steel, coal and textiles at theend of 1986. Reuter
U.S. TO ALLOW TEMPORARY IMPORTS OF S.A. URANIUM The Treasury Department said it wouldtemporarily permit imports of South African uranium ore andoxide pending clarification of anti-apartheid sanctions lawspassed by Congress last fall.    The decision was announced late Friday. It applies, untilJuly 1, to uranium ore and oxide imported into the U.S. forprocessing and re-export to third countries.    The Treasury said it took the action because it felt thatwhen Congress passed the comprehensive South African sanctionsbill last fall over President Reagan's veto it had not intendedto hurt U.S. industry.    In addition, the Treasury said it would permit U.S.-madegoods to be imported temporarily from South Africanstate-controlled organizations for repair or servicing.    Reuter
JAPAN AND THAILAND TO JOINTLY EXTRACT RARE METALS Japan's Agency of Natural Resources andEnergy said it will begin experiments with Thailand at the endof March to start commercial production of rare metals in 1989under a joint project.    An agency official said it will set up a 500 mln yen pilotplant in Bangkok which will extract high quality rare metalssuch as titanium and niobium from sand left over from tinproduction processes in Thailand.    The plant wilq use about a tonne of sand per day, althoughit is unclear how much rare metal will be extracted, theofficial said. REUTER
HIGHVELD (HGVJ.J) SEES LOWER 1987 EARNINGS Highveld Steel and Vanadium CorpLtd said it expects 1987 earnings will be lower than lastyear's previously reported 85 cts a share.    But profits "will be at a satisfactory level," the companysaid in the annual report without giving a specific estimate.    Highveld said it expects appreciation of the rand will beoffset to some extent by increasing U.S. Dollar prices for itsexports as the year progresses.    Highveld said measures taken last year by the EuropeanEconomic Community and the United States prohibiting all SouthAfrican steel products "presents a challenge to management toplace the steel in other areas."    The company said overall world vanadium consumption in 1987is expected to be similar to last year although China's role isstill an unknown factor in the total supply-demand situation.    "World vanadium production capacity is still believed to beadequate to cater for any foreseeable demand," it added. REUTER
PENN CENTRAL <PC> SELLS U.K. UNIT SAFT, a unit of Cie Generaled'Electricite of France, said it bought U.K.-based Alcad Ltdfrom Penn Central Corp's Marathon Manufacturing Cos Inc.    Terms of the deal were not disclosed.    Alcad is one of the world's largest producers ofpocket-plate nickel-cadmium storeage batteries, used inindustrial and railroad applications to start engines and aslight sources, SAFT said.    SAFT said it expects to add 400 jobs at the U.K.operations. Reuter
HOUSTON METALS' MINE YIELDS POSITIVE RESULTS <Houston Metals Corp> said thethe first phase of the underground rehabilitation, extensivedrilling and bulk sampling program at its Silver Queen Mine hasyielded positive results.    Houston said representative assays from the 2,750 ft and2,600 ft levels at the south end of the mine established oredeposits in the following ranges: copper, 3.7 pct to 5.08 pct,lead .99 pct to 1.5 pct, zinc six pct to 9.6 pct, silver 15.63pct to 79.92 oz per ton, gold .062 to .19 oz per ton, germanium93 to 103 grams per ton, gallium five to 18 grams per ton.    In addition, Houston Metals said the weighted average of 25diamond-drilled holes 375 ft below the 2,600 foot level and 800ft along the strike assayed gold at .237 oz per ton, silver at10.91 oz per ton and zinc at 8.99 pct.    An apparent parallel vein structure at the 2,600 ft levelreturned similar values, the company said.    It added that preliminary metallurgical tests fromrepresentative bulk ore samples indicate the commercialfeasability of producing a zinc and a copper-lead concentrate.    Houston Metals said gold, silver and the base metals haverecoveries of 90 pct to 95 pct, with 95 pct of gold recoveredfrom better gold ores, while gallium, germanium and indium haverecoveries of between 66 pct to 82 pct and are included in thezinc concentrate.    The company's 1987 program of diamond drilling, undergrounddrifting and metallurgical evaluation is scheduled to start onApril.    Houston Metals said it has a 60 pct interest in the SilverQueen mines.    It added that funds for the program have been provided byFirst Exploration Fund, a Canadian limited partnershipsponsored by Merrill Lynch Canada Inc and Dominion SecuritiesInc. Reuter
CALIFORNIA MICRO <CAMD>, GRUMMAN <GQ> SET PACT California Micro Devices Corpsaid it has signed an agreement with Grumman Corp's TachonicsCorp unit to develop and product gallium arsenideseminconductor chips.    Under the pact, California Micro Devices will design thechips and Tachonics will manufacture them.    Initial products to be developed will be gate arrays with500 to 2,500 gate complexity and radiation hardeningcapabilities, the company said. Reuter
MOUNTAIN STATES <MTSR> ADDES TWO PROPERTIES Mountain States Resources Corpsaid it acquired two properties to its strategic mineralsholdings.    The acquisitions bring to its land position a total of5,100 acres of titanium, zirconium and rare earth resources,the company said.    Both properties, located in southern Utah, consist ofapproximately 1,430 acres of unpatented mining claims and onestate lease, it said.    The company also announced the formation of Rare TechMinerals Inc, a wholly-owned subsidiary. Reuter
MOUNTAIN STATES ADDS TWO MINERALS PROPERTIES Mountain States Resources Corpsaid it acquired two properties to add to its strategicminerals holdings.    The acquisitions include a total of 5,100 acres oftitanium, zirconium and rare earth resources, the company said.    Both properties, located in southern Utah, consist ofapproximately 1,430 acres of unpatented mining claims and onestate lease, it said.    The company also announced the formation of Rare TechMinerals Inc, a wholly-owned subsidiary. Reuter
CANUC COMPLETES URANIUM SALE TO DENISON <Canuc Resources Inc> said it completedthe previously announced sale of its 80 uranium mining claimsin Elliot Lake, Ontario to <Denison Mines Ltd> for an initialpayment of 150,000 dlrs and certain royalties.    Canuc said it anticipated that Denison would start miningthe property in 1989, with production reaching a yearly peak ofbetween one mln and 1.5 mln pounds uranium oxide in 1992.    It said it would receive production royalties of about1.025 dlrs for each pound of uranium oxide contained in orebroken during mine development and a minimum advance of 25,000dlrs a quarter until production starts. Reuter
MINAS DE ALMADEN RAISES MERCURY PRICE Spain's Minas de Almaden y Arrayanes S.A.has agreed with Algerian producer ENOF to establish a minimumprice of 300 dlrs per flask for spot mercury sales, Almadenspokesman Jesus Gallego said.    In response to enquiries from Reuters, he said his companyhad raised the minimum price for its spot sales from 240 dlrsper flask following talks with ENOF.    In a separate press release, the company said that ENOF andAlmaden held talks in Istanbul a week ago with Turkish mercuryproducers on ways to improve prices, but Gallego said he wasnot in a position to say what action the Turkish companieswould be taking. Reuter
ALGERIAN, SPANISH FIRMS AGREE QUICKSILVER PRICE Algerian and Spanish producers whichtogether meet 40 pct of the Western market's needs inquicksilver have agreed to apply a minimum selling price of 300dlrs per unit, the Algerian news agency APS said.    The agreement was made during a meeting here last weekbetween Algeria's Entreprise Nationale des Non-ferreux etSubstances Utiles (ENOF) and Spain's Almaden to discuss themarket situation.    The two firms "took note with regret that prices quoted bysome specialised publications do not reflect the reality of thewhole market since they take into account only part of thedeals made," a statement by ENOF said.    The result is that the prices quoted are far away from twofirms' production costs.    "They have thus decided that their selling price would notbe linked any more to the prices quoted by these publicationsand that sales would be made at a minimum price of 300 dlrs fobper jar, which is close to their production cost," the statementsaid.    It added that Turkish producers would join in when the twofirms meet again in Madrid later this month.    The price of quicksilver on the London Metal Exchangehovered around 200 dlrs this week. REUTER
INDIUM CORP RAISES PRODUCER LIST PRICE Indium Corp of America said it has raisedits list price for indium ingots, minimum 99.97 pct, to 4.50dlrs per troy ounce from 3.95 dlrs, effective immediately.    Traders said the rise was based on continuing strongconsumer demand in the United States and Japan.    Free market price ideas rose this morning to a nominalrange of 135 to 145 dlrs per kilo, the highest level for aboutfive years, compared with 125/132 dlrs on Friday, dealers said. REUTER
MINAS DE ALMADEN TO HOLD MADRID MERCURY CONFERENCE Spain's Minas de Almaden y Arrayanes S.A.Said it will host a conference of mercury producers here at theend of April to study how to stimulate low mercury prices.    Last week, Almaden and Algerian producer ENOF agreed toestablish a minimum price of 300 dlrs per flask (34.5 kilos)for spot mercury sales, up from the previous minimum of 240dlrs.    A Minas de Almaden statement said the non-communist world'smain mercury producers had decided not to sign any contractsusing the reference price of specialist publications, becauseit was well below their costs of production. REUTER
DOE RECOMMENDS SPECIAL UNIT TO ENRICH URANIUM Energy Secretary John Herrington toldCongress that a federally chartered corporation would be thebest way to manage and operate the government's uraniumenrichment program.    He said in a letter to Congressmen that unless the program,now run by the Energy Department, is improved, sales worth fivebillion dlrs could be lost between 1990 and 2000.    The program now has annual commercial sales of about onebillion dlrs and holds 50 pct of the free world market forenrichment services.    A department official said the world market for enricheduranium for reactors for power utilities is increasinglycompetitive and private entity could better tap it.    The Administration's plan to spin off the department's uranium enrichment operation is in line with it effort toreduce the federal government's role in areas where it feelsprivate enterprise could be more efficient. reuter
JOHNSON MATTHEY'S PLATINUM GROUP PRICES Johnson Matthey today issued thefollowing Platinum group base prices (unfabricated), all U.S.Dlrs per troy ounce. Previous prices in parentheses. PLATINUM  -   562   (567) PALLADIUM -   130   (130) IRIDIUM   -   400   (400) RHODIUM     1,230 (1,230) RUTHENIUM -    80    (80)
HOUSE PANEL WANTS PENTAGON MANAGE U.S. STOCKPILE The House Armed Services Committeehas voted for a transfer in the management of stockpiledmaterials for national defense to the U.S. Defense Secretary.    The committee also voted for legally-binding quantity andquality requirements on the materials, mostly metals.    The measures are a part of the Defense Authorization Billwhich will be voted on in the House next month.    The purpose of the measures, passed by the committeeyesterday, is to improve stockpile management and discouragesell-offs of materials that could jeopardize strategic needs, astaff member of the committee told Reuters.    "They (the stockpiles) stand to gain the most by beingmanaged properly," said the staffer. "Management of the stockpileover the last 10 years has been atrocious."    Responsibility for stockpile management now belongs to aWhite House agency, the Federal Emergency Management Agency.    The staffer said under the measures passed by the committeethe Secretary of Defense would have more influence overdecisions to keep or sell strategic stockpile materials.    The administration has proposed a goal of 700 million dlrsworth of strategic materials to be held in the stockpile. Thestockpile now contains around 10 billion dlrs of materials.    He said several agencies currently helped FEMA to managethe stockpile and decide how much to sell to help the deficit.    These agencies included the Office of Management and Budgetand the Departments of Interior and Commerce, he said.    The committee believed the shared involvement in stockpilemanagement was counter-productive, he said. Reuter
HOUSE PANEL WANTS PENTAGON MANAGE U.S. STOCKPILE The House Armed Services Committeehas voted for a transfer in the management of stockpiledmaterials for national defense to the U.S. Defense Secretary.    The committee also voted for legally-binding quantity andquality requirements on the materials, mostly metals.    The measures are a part of the Defense Authorization Billwhich will be voted on in the House next month.    The purpose of the measures, passed by the committeeyesterday, is to improve stockpile management and discouragesell-offs of materials that could jeopardize strategic needs, astaff member of the committee told Reuters.    "They (the stockpiles) stand to gain the most by beingmanaged properly," said the staffer. "Management of the stockpileover the last 10 years has been atrocious."    Responsibility for stockpile management now belongs to aWhite House agency, the Federal Emergency Management Agency.    The staffer said that under the measures passed by thecommittee the Secretary of Defense would have more influenceover decisions to keep or sell strategic stockpile materials.    The administration has proposed a goal of 700 million dlrsworth of strategic materials to be held in the stockpile. Thestockpile now contains around 10 billion dlrs of materials.    He said several agencies currently helped FEMA to managethe stockpile and decide how much to sell to help the deficit.    These agencies included the Office of Management and Budgetand the Departments of Interior and Commerce, he said.    The committee believed the shared involvement in stockpilemanagement was counter-productive, he said. Reuter
SOY PLANTS MIGHT BE USED TO DRAW CADMIUM FROM SOIL Effective extraction of the toxicmetal cadmium from soil may at last be feasible using soybeanplants, research in the Netherlands by a Belgian-basedenvironment group shows.    Cadmium, naturally drawn up by plants and passed on toconsumers, has been shown to produce kidney damage andresulting calcium loss as well as causing high blood pressureand cancers, a spokesman for the Ecological Life andCultivation (VELT) said.    Three years of experiments by the organization showedsoybean plants extracted up to 16 pct of soil-borne cadmium,which went into the leaves and not into the beans themselves.    Cadmium is present in the soil because of emissions in thepast by factories producing non-ferrous metals, the spokesmansaid.    "Although many of these factories are now using far safermethods of manufacture, the cadmium is already in the soil anduntil now there has been no way to get rid of it," he said. Reuter
COMINCO LEAD/ZINC UNION REJECTS CONTRACT Three United Steelworkersof America locals on strike at Cominco Ltd rejected a tentativethree-year contract, a union representative said.    "The vote was 1,229, or 54.5 pct, against, and 1,028, or45.5 pct, for the contract. Eighty-one pct of the membershipvoted," he said.    The union representative said that the pact offered cost ofliving increases designed to keep pace with inflation, butcontained no wage increase.    The locals' bargaining committees are expected to meet andprepare for the reopening of negotiations with Cominco, hesaid.    The three locals cover about 2,600 production andmaintenance workers at Cominco's Trail smelter and Kimberley,B.C. lead-zinc mine.    Output at both sites has been shut down since theproduction and maintenance workers, along with about 600 officeand technical workers, went on strike May 9.    The two Steelworkers locals representing the office andtechnical workers have not negotiated since May 21.    The strike caused Cominco to declare force majeure, whichmeans the company may not be able to honor contracts forproducts from the smelter and mine.    Each of the five locals have separate contracts, all ofwhich expired April 30, but the main issues are similar.    The union had requested a three pct wage increase in eachyear of a two-year contract. Cominco had pressed for athree-year contract and some loosening of the rules on jobclassifications.    The Trail smelter, about 400 miles east of Vancouver,produced 240,000 long tons of zinc and 110,000 long tons oflead last year. The Sullivan mine at Kimberley, about 450 mileseast of Vancouver, produced 2.2 mln long tons of ore last year,most for processing at the Trail smelter.    The smelter also produced cadmium, bismuth and indium.    Revenues from the Trail smelter totalled 356 mln Canadiandlrs in 1986. Reuter
COMINCO <CLT.TO> UNION REJECTS CONTRACT Three UnitedSteelworkers of America locals on strike at Cominco Ltdrejected a tentative three-year contract, a unionrepresentative said.     "The vote was 1,229, or 54.5 pct, against, and 1,028, or45.5 pct, for the contract. Eighty-one pct of the membershipvoted," he said.     The union representative said that the pact offered costof living increases designed to keep pace with inflation, butcontained no wage increase.           The locals' bargaining committees are expected to meet andprepare for the reopening of negotiations with Cominco, hesaid.     The three locals cover about 2,600 production andmaintenance workers at Cominco's Trail smelter and Kimberley,B.C. lead-zinc mine.     Output at both sites has been shut down since theproduction and maintenance workers, along with about 600 officeand technical workers, went on strike May nine.          The two Steelworkers locals representing the office andtechnical workers have not negotiated since May 21.     The strike caused Cominco to declare force majeire, whichmeans the company may not be able to honor contracts forproducts from the smelter and mine.    Each of the five locals have separate contracts, all ofwhich expired April 30, but the main issues are similar.            The union had requested a three pct wage increase in eachyear of a two-year contract. Cominco had pressed for athree-year contract and some loosening of the rules on jobclassifications.     The Trail smelter, about 400 miles east of Vancouver,produced 240,000 long tons of zinc and 110,000 long tons oflead last year. The Sullivan mine at Kimberley, about 450 mileseast of Vancouver, produced 2.2 mln long tons of ore last year,most for processing at the Trail smelter.     The smelter also produced cadmium, bismuth and indium.     Revenues from the Trail smelter totalled 356 mln Canadiandlrs in 1986.         Reuter
COMINCO <CLT.TO> SEES MEETING WITH STRIKING UNION LOCALS Cominco Ltd said itexpects to meet today with two of five United Steelworkers ofAmerica locals on strike at its Trail smelter and Kimberley,B.C. lead-zinc mine, a Cominco spokesman said.    It had no meeting scheduled with the other three strikinglocals, which rejected a tentative three-year contractSaturday, Cominco spokesman Richard Fish said.    Fish said the pact that was rejected contained a cost ofliving increase tied to the Canadian consumer price index, butno wage increase. With 81 pct of the membership voting, 54.5pct voted no and 45.5 pct voted yes, the union said.    The three locals represent about 2,600 production andmaintenance workers, while the remaining two locals cover about600 office and technical workers.    The office and technical workers last negotiated May 21.Production at Trail and Kimberley has been shut down since thestrike began May 9 and Cominco has had to declare forcemajeure, which means the company may be unable to honorcontracts for products from the smelter and mine.    Each of the five locals have separate contracts, all ofwhich expired April 30, but the main issues are similar.    The Trail smelter, about 400 miles east of Vancouver,produced 240,000 long tons of zinc and 110,000 long tons oflead last year. The Sullivan mine at Kimberley, about 450 mileseast of Vancouver, produced 2.2 mln long tons of ore last year,most for processing at the Trail smelter.    The smelter also produced cadmium, bismuth and indium.    Trail smelter revenue was 356 mln Canadian dlrs in 1986. Reuter
COMINCO SEEKS MEETING WITH STRIKING UNION LOCALS Cominco Ltd said itexpects to meet today with two of five United Steelworkers ofAmerica locals on strike at its Trail smelter and Kimberley,B.C. lead-zinc mine, a Cominco spokesman said.    It had no meeting scheduled with the other three strikinglocals, which rejected a tentative three-year contractSaturday, Cominco spokesman Richard Fish said.    Fish said the pact that was rejected contained a cost ofliving increase tied to the Canadian consumer price index, butno wage increase. With 81 pct of the membership voting, 54.5pct voted no and 45.5 pct voted yes, the union said.    The three locals represent about 2,600 production andmaintenance workers, while the remaining two locals cover about600 office and technical workers.    The office and technical workers last negotiated May 21.Production at Trail and Kimberley has been shut down since thestrike began May 9 and Cominco has had to declare forcemajeure, which means the company may be unable to honorcontracts for products from the smelter and mine.    Each of the five locals have separate contracts, all ofwhich expired April 30, but the main issues are similar.    The Trail smelter, about 400 miles east of Vancouver,produced 240,000 long tons of zinc and 110,000 long tons oflead last year. The Sullivan mine at Kimberley, about 450 mileseast of Vancouver, produced 2.2 mln long tons of ore last year,most for processing at the Trail smelter.    The smelter also produced cadmium, bismuth and indium.    Trail smelter revenue was 356 mln Canadian dlrs in 1986. Reuter
STRONG DEMAND FOR PERU BISMUTH IN JAN/MAY Very strong demand from all marketsincluding, recently, Japan has resulted in Peru's bismuthexports showing an impressive increase in January/May 1987,Peru's state owned mining industry's marketing arm Minpeco S.A.Said.    In a statement released by its London office, Minpeco saidPeruvian customs figures for bismuth exports for the first fivemonths were 574.8 tonnes compared with 160.7 tonnes in the sameperiod of 1986 and 483.4 tonnes during the whole of 1986,Minpeco said.    A breakdown of the figures showed Peru exported 296.4tonnes of bismuth to the U.S. During Jan/May 1987 compared with127.0 during the whole of 1986. Other recipients were PeoplesRepublic of China 110.4 (100.0), Holland 100.2 (150.0), USSR50.0 (50.0) and other areas 17.8 tonnes (56.4).    Sales to the U.K., West Germany, France and other Westernand Eastern European countries are hidden under the headingHolland as Minpeco sells to customers in these countries fromstocks the company normally holds in Rotterdam, the statementsaid. REUTER
AMAX INC <AMX> USES POND SYSTEM FOR MAGNESIUM AMAX Inc unit, AMAXMagnesium Corp, said it will build a Knolls Solar EvaporationPond System for recovery of magnesium.    The company said the system will replace a previousrecovery system which was flooded in 1986.    The company said construction should be complete by 1988and in full production by 1989. Reuter
CHINA MOVES TO STABILISE WORLD TUNGSTEN PRICES China is moving to stabilise world pricesof tungsten after fluctuating prices this year affected thecountry's export earnings, the China Daily said.    The paper quoted industry officials as saying they wouldfix export prices on the basis of the world market, stopsmuggling and encourage producers to reduce exports.    Current world prices range from 49 to 55 dlrs per tonneunit, but China suffered heavy losses when the price slumped to39 dlrs earlier this year, it said.    Some 45 pct of world tungsten exports come from China, butthe country imports high-grade tungsten products. REUTER
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL <PNW> BUYS MINERAL RIGHTS Pinnacle West Capital Corp saidits Malapai Resources Co units bought the mineral rights foruranium mining on about 21,000 acres in northern Wyoming fromWestinghouns Electric Corp <WX>.    The property is adjacent to a 34,000-acre site the companyalready owns. Both facilities are at expected to be in fulloperation in the early 1990s, with annual production of one totwo mln lbs of uranium concentrates, the company said.    The new site is expected to produce about 250,000 lbs ofuranium in its first full year of production in 1988. Theadjacent property is expected to begin in 1989. Reuter
