INDONESIAN AGRICULTURE GROWTH EXPECTED TO SLOW Indonesia"s agriculture sector will growby just 1.0 pct in calendar 1987, against an estimated 2.4 pctin 1986 as the production of some commodities stagnates ordeclines, the U.S. Embassy said in a report.    Production of Indonesia"s staple food, rice, is forecast tofall to around 26.3 mln tonnes from an embassy estimate of26.58 mln tonnes in 1986, according to the annual report onIndonesia"s agricultural performance.    The government officially estimates 1986 rice production at26.7 mln tonnes, with a forecast 27.3 mln tonnes output in1987.    The report says wheat imports are likely to fall to 1.5 mlntonnes in calendar 1987 from 1.69 mln tonnes in 1986 because ofa drawdown on stocks.    "Growth prospects for agriculture in 1987 do not lookpromising as rice production is forecast to decline and theproduction of sugarcane, rubber and copra show little or nogain," the report says.    "The modest overall increase which is expected will be dueto significant gains in production of corn soybeans, palm oiland palm kernels."    Constraints to significant overall increases inagricultural output include a shortage of disease resistantseeds, limited fertile land, insect pests and a reluctance byfarmers to shift from rice production to other crops, thereport underlines.    The fall in rice production is caused by an outbreak ofpests known as "wereng" or brown plant hoppers in 1986 whichlargely offset gains in yields.    The outbreak has forced the government to ban the use of 57insecticides on rice because it was believed the wereng are nowresistant to these varieties, and to use lower-yielding, moreresistant rice types.    The government is depending on increased production ofexport commodities such as coffee, tea, rubber, plywood andpalm oil to offset revenue losses brought on by falling crudeoil prices.    Palm oil production is expected to increase by over 7.0 pctin 1987 to 1.45 mln tonnes from 1.35 mln, with exports risingto an estimated 720,000 tonnes from 695,000 tonnes in 1986, thereport says.    But while production of soybeans in 1987/88 (Oct-Sept) willrise to 1.075 mln tonnes from 980,000 in 1986/87, imports willalso rise to supply a new soybean crushing plant.    The report says that imports of wheat, soybeans, soybeanmeal and cotton are not likely to decline as a result of lastSeptember"s 31 pct devaluation of the rupiah because of a risein domestic demand.    The report said that Indonesia"s overall economicperformance in calendar 1986 was about zero or even a slightnegative growth rate, the lowest rate of growth since themid-1960s. It compares with 1.9 pct growth in 1985 and 6.7 pctin 1984.    The dramatic fall in oil prices last year was responsiblefor the slump. REUTER
INDONESIAN TEA, COCOA EXPORTS SEEN UP, COFFEE DOWN Indonesia's exports of tea and cocoawill continue to rise in calendar 1987 but coffee exports areforecast to dip slightly in 1987/88 (April-March) as thegovernment tries to improve quality, the U.S. Embassy said.    The embassy's annual report on Indonesian agricultureforecast coffee output in 1986/87 would be 5.77 mln bags of 60kilograms each. That is slightly less than the 5.8 mln bagsproduced in 1985/86.    In 1987/88 coffee production is forecast to rise again to5.8 mln bags, but exports to dip to 4.8 mln from around 5.0 mlnin 1986/87. Exports in 1985/86 were 4.67 mln bags.    The embassy report says coffee stocks will rise to 1.3 mlntonnes in 1987/88 from 1.15 mln in 1986/87. It bases this on afall in exports as a result of the "probable" re-introduction ofquotas by the International Coffee Organisation.    Cocoa production and exports are forecast to rise steadilyas the government develops cocoa plantations. Production ofcocoa in Indonesia increased to 32,378 tonnes in calendar 1985from 10,284 tonnes in 1980. It is projected by the governmentto rise to more than 50,000 tonnes by 1988.    Production in 1986 is estimated by the embassy at 35,000tonnes, as against 38,000 tonnes in 1987.    The report forecasts cocoa exports to rise to 35,000 tonnesthis year, from 33,000 tonnes in 1986 and 31,000 in 1985.    The Netherlands is at present the biggest importer ofIndonesian cocoa beans.    The report forecasts that in calendar 1987, Indonesia's CTC(crushed, torn and curled) tea exports will increasesignificantly with the coming on stream of at least eight newCTC processing plants.    Indonesia plans to diversify its tea products by producingmore CTC tea, the main component of tea bags.    Production of black and green teas is forecast in theembassy report to rise to 125,000 tonnes in calendar 1987 from123,000 tonnes in 1986.    Exports of these teas are likely to rise to 95,000 tonnesin 1987 from 85,000 in 1986 and around 90,000 in 1985.    The embassy noted the ministry of trade tightened qualitycontrols on tea in October 1986 in an effort to become morecompetititve in the world market. REUTER
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - ASIAN DROUGHTS Three geographically diverse droughtsin Asia are being linked by some scientists to areintensification of the complex and little-understood El Ninoweather pattern, <Accu-Weather Inc>, a commercial weatherforecasting service, said.    Rice and wheat farmers in China, wheat and sugarcanegrowers in Australia and tea planters in Sri Lanka all faceserious losses to their respective harvests unless rains arrivein time to break the droughts, offical reports, governmentofficials and meteorologists said.    Wen Wei Po, a Hong Kong daily with close Peking links, saidthe drought is the worst in over 20 years and some provinceshave been without adequate rainfall for more than seven months.    Rice planting is threatened in eight provinces, it added.    Rainfall in the key farming provinces of Henan and Sichuanwas 70 pct below average during February, the lowest figure forover 20 years, the paper said.    The dry weather has cut stored water volumes by over 20 pctcompared with last March and lowered the water levels of manyrivers, it added.    This has resulted in reduced hydro-electric power, causingshortages to industry and households. The upper reaches of theYangtze are at their lowest levels in a century, causing manyships to run aground, Wen Wei Po said.    Unusually high temperatures have also been reported acrossChina, media reports said. The People's Daily said Sichuan hasrecorded temperatures three degrees Celsius higher than averagesince early February.    The New China News Agency said the average Decembertemperature in Harbin in the northeast was six degrees higherthan last December and 14 degrees higher than December 1984.    Severe drought is affecting about one-third of Sri Lankaand threatens to reduce the country's tea crop, Ministry ofPlantation Industries officials told Reuters    In Australia, concern is growing about below-averagerainfall levels in parts of the sugarcane belt along theQueensland coast and in Western Australia's wheat belt, localMeteorological Bureau officials said.    For many farmers and government officials the fear is thatwhile the present low rainfall does not yet pose a majorthreat, the prospect of a dry autumn/winter season when thewheat crop is in its early stages certainly does, they added.    Concern is heightened by the memory of the 1982/83 droughtwhich devastated the wheat crop and coincided with theoccurrence of the barely understood weather phenomenon known asEl Nino, they said.    Although meteorologists are cautious about linking theAsia-Pacific region's disrupted weather patterns to any singlecause, El Nino's role is being closely studied, they said.    Accu-Weather Inc, which specialises in providing data foragriculture and shipping interests, said each El Nino 'event'was unique.    The El Nino does not always produce the same effects andthe present occurrence is much less pronounced than the lastmajor event in 1982/83, it said.    El Nino, Spanish for "Christ Child" because it appears aroundChristmas, is formed by the action of warm air, bearing cloudsand rain, shifting from the Indonesian archipelago to the coastof Peru, where it mingles with the cold waters associated withthe Peru current and returns across the Pacific as the tradewinds, meteorologists said.    The winds, strengthened by El Nino's "pump" effect, raise thesea level off Australia and Indonesia, they said.    When the winds drop, the ocean, seeking equilibrium, sendsa surge of warmer water back across the Pacific where itcollides with the cold seas off Peru, they said.    One effect of this heat exchange is to deflect therain-bearing clouds away from Australia and Indonesia into thePacific, where they further disrupt other weather patterns.    The prospects for an end to the droughts vary, Accu-Weathersaid.    China, where the affected areas have received between 40and 75 pct of normal rainfall, will have to wait for theMay-September rains, it said.    The May-September rains normally provide thedrought-striken areas with 80 pct of annual rainfall.    In Australia, areas of Queensland's coastal strip havereceived less than half the normal rainfall during the currentwet season, but prospects for increased rains are diminishingas the rainy season draws to an end.    In Sri Lanka, the drought has come when rainfall should beat its maximum for the year. The year's secondary rains usuallyoccur between April and June, although it is not possible atthis stage to forecast whether they will arrive as usual. REUTER
SOVIET PAPER DETAILS GEORGIAN FLOOD DAMAGE Floods and avalanches killed 110 peopleand caused around 350 mln roubles worth of damage in thesouthern Soviet republic of Georgia earlier this year, thegovernment daily Izvestia said.    Some 80,000 hectares of agricultural land and gardens hadbeen inundated, damaging tea plantations and orange groves, thenewspaper said. It added that spring sowing in southern partsof the country was some two weeks behind schedule because ofthe late thaw but gave no precise crop estimates.    In the most detailed report to date on the heavy snows inJanuary and floods in February, Izvestia said 8,200 people hadbeen evacuated from mountain areas, 4,500 houses had beendamaged and hundreds of kilometres of roads and power lines hadbeen destroyed.    A separate article in the daily warned that a sudden thawwas expected shortly in the Ukraine and southern parts ofRussia, which experienced record snows this winter.    Preventive measures have already been taken in some areasincluding the evacuation of cattle. Reuter
INDIA STEPS UP COUNTERTRADE DEALS TO CUT TRADE GAP India is searching for non-communistcountertrade partners to help it cut its trade deficit andconserve foreign exchange.    Wheat, tobacco, tea, coffee, jute, engineering andelectronic goods, as well as minerals including iron ore, areall on offer in return for crude oil, petroleum products,chemicals, steel and machinery, trade sources told Reuters.    Most of the impetus behind countertrade, which began in1984, comes from two state trading firms -- the State TradingCorp (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corp (MMTC).    "The two state trading corporations are free to use theirbuying power in respect to bulk commodities to promote Indianexports," a commerce ministry spokeswoman said, adding thatprivate firms are excluded from countertrading.    One trade source said India has targetted countries thatdepend on an Indian domestic market recently opened to foreignimports.    However, countertrade deals still make up only a small partof India's total trading and are likely to account for lessthan eight pct of the estimated 18.53 billion dlrs in tradeduring the nine months ended December, the sources said.    Countertrade accounted for just five pct of India's 25.65billion dlrs in trade during fiscal 1985/86 ended March,against almost nothing in 1984/85, official figures show.    However, the figures exclude exchanges with the EasternBloc paid in non-convertible Indian rupees, the sources said.    Total trade with the Soviet Union, involving swaps ofagricultural produce and textiles for Soviet arms and crudeoil, is estimated at 3.04 billion dlrs in fiscal 1986/87,against three billion in 1985/86.    Indian countertrade, which is being promoted mainly to helpnarrow the country's large trade deficit, is stillinsignificant compared with agreements reached by Indonesia,Venezuela and Brazil, the trade sources said.    The trade deficit, which hit an estimated record 6.96billion dlrs in 1985/86, is expected to decline to 5.6 billionin the current fiscal year.    But the push to include non-communist countries incountertrade is also due to other factors, including the slowgrowth of foreign reserves, a tight debt repayment schedule,shrinking aid and trade protectionism, businessmen said.    One source said India is showing more dynamism in promotingcountertrade deals than in the past, when the deals were madediscreetly because they break GATT rules. As a member of theGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), India cannotofficially support bartering.    The MMTC's recent countertrade deals include iron oreexports to Yugoslavia for steel structures and rails.    "MMTC's recent global tenders now include a clause thatpreference will be given to parties who accept payment in kindfor goods and services sold to India," a trade official said,adding that the policy remains flexible.    "We also take into account other factors such as prices atwhich the goods and services are offered to India," the tradeofficial said.    Early this year the commerce ministry quietly told foreigncompanies interested in selling aircraft, ships, drilling rigsand railway equipment to India that they stood a better chanceif they bought Indian goods or services in return, the tradesources said.    Illustrating the point, the official said a South Koreanfirm recently agreed to sell a drilling platform worth 40 mlndlrs to the state-run Oil and Natural Gas Commission.    In return, the South Koreans gave a verbal assurance to buyIndian goods worth 10 pct of the contract, against the 25 pctsought by New Delhi, the trade official said.    "We selected the Korean firm because its bid was the lowest,"he added.    Countertrade is helping African countries short of foreigncurrency to import goods. India has signed a trade protocol tobuy up to 15,000 tonnes of asbestos fibre from Zimbabwe inexchange for Indian goods, including jute bags and cars.    But despite India's new drive, countertrade has someinherent problems, they added.    "It is not always easy to meet the basic requirement thatthe trade should always be balanced," one trade source said. "Theother problem is it is often difficult to supply or buycommodities which the other party wants."    Another added, "Barter is also restrictive. We look upon itas a temporary measure to get over the current balance ofpayments difficulty.    "This is why countertrade has not been made a law in India.It does not even figure in the country's foreign trade policy." REUTER
INDIA STEPS UP COUNTERTRADE DEALS India is searching for non-communistcountertrade partners to help it cut its trade deficit andconserve foreign exchange.    Wheat, tobacco, tea, coffee, jute, engineering andelectronic goods, as well as minerals including iron ore, areall on offer in return for crude oil, petroleum products,chemicals, steel and machinery, trade sources told Reuters.    Most of the impetus behind countertrade, which began in1984, comes from two state trading firms -- the State TradingCorp (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corp (MMTC).    "The two state trading corporations are free to use theirbuying power in respect to bulk commodities to promote Indianexports," a commerce ministry spokeswoman said, adding thatprivate firms are excluded from countertrading.    One trade source said India has targetted countries thatdepend on an Indian domestic market recently opened to foreignimports. But countertrade deals still make up only a small partof India's total trading and are likely to account for lessthan eight pct of the estimated 18.53 billion dlrs in tradeduring the nine months ended December, the sources said.    Countertrade accounted for just five pct of India's 25.65billion dlrs in trade during fiscal 1985/86 ended March,against almost nothing in 1984/85, official figures show.    However, the figures exclude exchanges with the EasternBloc paid in non-convertible Indian rupees, the sources said.    Total trade with the Soviet Union, involving swaps ofagricultural produce and textiles for Soviet arms and crudeoil, is estimated at 3.04 billion dlrs in fiscal 1986/87. Reuter
PAKISTANI DECISION WILL HURT KENYAN TEA EXPORTS Pakistan's decision to suspend teaimport licences will hurt Kenyan tea exports in the short termwhile exporters seek new markets, sources close to Nairobibroking houses and exporters said.    Broking house officials in the Sri Lankan capital Colomboyesterday told Reuters Pakistan had suspended the licences inorder to link tea imports to Pakistani exports.    The latest available figures show that Kenyan exports toPakistan, mainly tea, were worth 75 mln dlrs in 1985, whileimports from Pakistan amounted to only 4.8 mln dlrs. Kenyaprovides over 50 pct of Pakistan's tea imports.    The Nairobi sources said the Pakistani decision did notcome as a surprise as Pakistan had been complaining of thetrade imbalance for some time.    "We are very disappointed that Pakistan took such action ...(it) will certainly hurt Kenya's tea industry in the short termas Pakistan is Kenya's second largest market," a source at onebroking house told Reuters.    One tea broker said Pakistan's move had already affectedKenya's tea trade and was largely responsible for an averagefall of two shillings a kilo at the export auction in Mombasalast Monday.    "The trend is likely to continue until other countriesreplace Pakistan, which usually buys all qualities of our tea,"he added.    Kenya has for a long time relied on Britain, Pakistan,Egypt and, to a lesser extent the United States, as majormarkets for its tea, the sources added.    Small-scale exporters who export mainly to Pakistan wouldbe worst hit by the Pakistani move as it would take them longerto find new outlets, they said. REUTER
ABNORMAL RADIATION FOUND IN SOVIET TEA/HAZELNUTS Abnormally high levels of radiation werefound in Soviet tea and hazelnuts more than nine months afterthe Chernobyl nuclear accident, West German residents in Moscowwere advised this week.    In a letter to the West German community here, AmbassadorJoerg Kastl said laboratory tests on food samples bought inMoscow in February had shown elevated levels of caesium-134 and-137 in tea from Azerbaijan and Ukrainian hazelnuts.    Other food samples sent for testing at Cologne University,including honey, fruit, vegetables, pork, milk and butter, werefound to be free of radiation, it said.    Data in the letter showed the tea and hazelnuts containedcaesium levels far in excess of ceilings recommended by theUnited Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO).    The letter said people who had consumed the tea faced noparticular health danger as most of the caesium remained in thetea leaves, but it warned against eating the hazelnuts.    The products sent for testing were bought in state shopsand private farmers' markets in Moscow, it added. Other Westernembassies in Moscow said they had discontinued laboratorytesting of Soviet food late last year because no abnormalradiation levels were detected.    "We didn't find anything so we stopped doing it," a U.S.Embassy spokesman said.    A British spokesman said radiation-monitoring equipmentremained in the embassy waiting room for British residents inMoscow who wanted to check their food, but laboratory tests hadnot been conducted for several months.    "Earlier we sent some food back to Britain as aprecautionary measure, but we stopped in the absence of anyalarming signals," he said. "If the tests had shown abnormalreadings, they would have been resumed." Reuter
PAKISTAN CONFIRMS KENYA TEA IMPORT INVESTIGATION Pakistan's Corporate Law Authority,CLA, has begun an enquiry into imports of tea from Kenya andthe trade imbalance between the two countries, CLA chairmanIrtiza Husain confirmed.    He told Reuters by telephone that importers Liptons andBrooke Bond had been asked to supply data to the authority anda hearing would be held.    The CLA would then report back to the Commerce Ministry,which had requested the enquiry. Husain said no date had yetbeen set for the hearing and declined to give further detailsof the matter.    Industry sources told Reuters reports that the companies'tea import licences had been suspended were incorrect. Reuter
INDIA AIMS TO EXPORT 280 MLN KILOS TEA BY 1990 India plans to export about 280 mlnkilos of tea a year by 1990, up from estimates of 202 mln in1986 and 220 mln in 1985, Minister of State for Commerce PriyaRanjan Dasmunsi told Parliament.    Bad weather reduced domestic tea output in 1986 causing ashortfall in exports. To boost exports the government recentlyintroduced higher cash compensatory support on packet tea,excise tax rebate of 50 paise per kilo of bulk tea, full rebateof excise duty on packet tea exports and exemption of customsduty on filter paper used in making tea bags, he said. REUTER
KENYA'S TEA AND COFFEE AREAS CONTINUE DRY Kenya's coffee and tea growing areasremained generally dry for the second consecutive week, in theperiod to April 28, weather and farming sources said.    All areas east and west of the Rift Valley recorded below25 mm of rain with western Kericho town having only 21 mm, theysaid. Kericho, which last year received 387 mm in April lastyear, has so far recorded only 176 mm and little rain isforecast throughout the country in the next two days.    Tea and coffee crops are doing well but farmers fear thatoutput will be low if the unusually dry spell continues. Aprilis normally the wettest month in Kenya. Reuter
STATE TO CONTROL 70 PCT OF PAKISTAN TEA IMPORTS Pakistan announced a new tea importpolicy, saying 70 pct of imports will in future be made throughthe state Trading Corporation of Pakistan (TCP).   Commerce Minister Mahbubul Haq said in a televisionbroadcast that no more than one-third of the remaining 30 pctallocated to the private sector would be permitted to come fromany one country.   The new policy was announced some three months after thegovernment suspended import licences and ordered an inquiryinto tea purchase policy.   Traders said the move was designed to put pressure on Kenya,which provided some 48 pct of Pakistan's 75-80 mln kilo annualtea imports, to buy Pakistani manufactured goods in exchange.    Liptons and Brooke Bond, two units of Britain's UnileverPlc, control 95 pct of Pakistan's hard-pack tea market, traderssaid.   Haq, who is also Planning Minister, was outlining a newthree-year trade policy from the start of financial 1987/88 onJuly 1. Reuter
