ATPC MEMBERS FIND WAYS TO CURB TIN EXPORTS Mine and industry officials frommost member states of the Association of Tin ProducingCountries (ATPC) say they have found ways to limit groupexports to 96,000 tonnes in the year started March 1, accordingto views polled by Reuter correspondents.    The plan to curb exports, agreed in January, is aimed atcutting the world surplus to 50,000 tonnes from 70,000 now andboosting prices to about 19 ringgit a kilo from just over 16.    Members of the seven-member Kuala Lumpur-based ATPC accountfor some 65 pct of the world's tin output.    Under the ATPC plan, Malaysia has been allocated an exportquota of 28,526 tonnes, Indonesia 24,516, Thailand 19,000,Bolivia 13,761, Zaire 1,736 and Nigeria 1,461.    Australia has said it is not setting any export quota.However, the tonnage allocated to it, 7,000 tonnes, is roughlyequal to its expected output this year.    Comment from officials in Zaire was unavailable.    Mine officials in Malaysia, the world's leading producer,said only 188 mines will be allowed to operate to ensure thatoutput is limited to around 31,500 tonnes in the year startedMarch 1.    Chief Inspector of Mines Redzuan Sumun told Reuters thatexcess output of some 3,000 tonnes after exports of 28,500 inthe one-year quota period would be kept in the national stock.    Mine owners in Malaysia have welcomed the ATPC export curband asked the government not to issue new mining licences. Morethan 100 applications for licences are pending.    Redzuan said the Mines Department would approve new mininglicences only if a six-month review of production trends showedthat local mines were not overproducing.    ATPC chairman and Indonesia's Mining and Energy MinisterSubroto has pledged his country's support for the export curb.    A spokesman for the state-owned tin mining company PTTambang Timah told Reuters it would be easy for Indonesia tostick to an export quota of 24,516 tonnes because this wasclose to exports in calendar 1986 of 24,636.    In Bangkok, Thai Industry Minister Pramual Sabhavasu saidThailand would keep to its 19,000 tonne quota and added thiswould not cause the local industry hardship at current prices.    To insure adherence, the industry ministry and sole tinexporter Thailand Smelting and Refining Co would encouragebigger stockpiles, and income tax exemptions would bepermitted, he said.    The Thai Mineral Resources Department is expected todisallow new tin mines opening this year to prevent excessiveproduction, industry sources said.    But Mining Industry Council President Dam Teutong toldReuters that if the tin price rose above 18 ringgit a kilo,Thai miners would press for the opening of more new mines.    Thailand exported 18,367 tonnes in 1986, up from 17,359 in1985, Pramual said.    Bolivia said it expects to export less tin this year thanits allocated 13,761 tonne quota.    Mining Minister Jaimie Villalobos told Reuters in La Pazthat Bolivia expected to export about 9,000 tonnes of tin incalendar 1987.    He said this was due to the sacking after the tin crisis ofOctober 1985 of about 20,000 of the 28,000 workers at the statemining company Comibol, which produces more than 80 pct ofBolivia's total exports.    He said there were risks in the ATPC plan to cut exportsbut added he was confident the goals set by the plan would beachieved. He did not elaborate.    Mines, Power and Steel Minister Bunu Sheriff Musa said inLagos that Nigeria would have no difficulty keeping within itsATPC quota of 1,461 tonnes because its metals output haddeclined due to poor demand and high production costs.    Industry sources told Reuters that Nigeria's output wasless than 1,000 tonnes last year.    ATPC officials said they would monitor member countries'export figures every three months using customs documents andmake projections from such data to see if quotas were likely tobe breached within the year-long quota period.    The ATPC officials said members that appeared likely tobreach their quotas would be told to take remedial measures.    They added that if member countries were unable to fulfiltheir quotas their extra tonnage would be reallocated to othermembers at the ATPC's discretion.    The ATPC would have produced and exported an estimated106,000 tonnes of tin in 1987 without the plan.    Non-members Brazil and China have pledged to cooperate withthe ATPC and limit their exports to 21,000 and 7,000 tonnesrespectively during the quota period. REUTER
(RPT) U.S. SAYS TIN DISPOSALS WILL NOT AFFECT ACCORD U.S. tin disposals should have littleeffect on an agreement reached last weekend by tin producingcountries to limit group exports to 96,000 tonnes in the yearstarted March 1, a government official said.    The agreement by the seven-member Association of TinProducing Countries (ATPC) aimed to cut the world surplus andboost prices. Following the accord, ATPC Chairman Subrotoappealed to the United States to restrict its tin releases fromits strategic stockpile.    "We don't think that (the U.S. government) has a largeinfluence in the (tin) market at this stage of the game," saidThomas O'Donnell, Director of International Commodities at theState Department. Last year the United States released about4,900 tonnes of tin to two ferroalloy firms. Reuter
ZAIRE ACCEPTS TIN-EXPORT QUOTA, ATPC SAYS Zaire agreed to limit its tinexports to 1,736 tonnes for 12 months from March 1 in line withan Association of Tin Producing Countries (ATPC) plan to curbexports, the ATPC said.    ATPC Executive Director Victor Siaahan told Reuters hereceived a telex from Zaire indicating its willingess to takepart in the plan to limit total ATPC exports to 96,000 tonnesfor a year from March 1.    Siaahan said Zaire is expected to produce 1,900 tonnes oftin in calendar 1987, and that in 1986 its output and exportswere about 1,200 tonnes.    The ATPC hopes to cut the 70,000-tonne world surplus by20,000 tonnes and boost prices.    All ATPC members except Zaire and Australia recently agreedto adhere to the export quotas allocated them under the plan.Australia said its quota of 7,000 tonnes was roughly equal toits expected output this year.    The ATPC consists of Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand,Bolivia, Australia, Nigeria and Zaire.    China and Bolivia, important producers of tin, are notmembers. REUTER
THAI TIN EXPORTS RISE IN JANUARY Thailand exported 1,816 tonnes of tinmetal in January, up from 1,731 in December and 1,330 a yearago, the Mineral Resources Department said.    It said major buyers last month were Singapore, Japan,Britain, the Netherlands, Malaysia and the U.S. REUTER
BULLETIN SAYS TIN PRICE MAY RISE TO 20 RINGGIT The tin price is likely to rise to20 ringgit a kilo this year because of the producers' accord onexport quotas and the reluctance of brokers and banks to sellthe metal at lower prices, a Malaysian government bulletinsaid.    The Malaysian Tin bulletin said it is in producers'interest to keep to their quotas to limit total exports to90,000 tonnes and to gradually deplete the 80,000 tonnesoverhang.    It said consumption by industrialised countries should stayat 160,000 tonnes and that International Tin Council creditorsand brokers are not likely to dump their stocks excessivelyunless there is a large and abrupt price jump.    The continued depreciation of the dollar could also helppush up the price of tin, the bulletin said.    A depreciation of the dollar means the depreciation of theringgit which is closely pegged to it, making the price of tincheaper in sterling terms, it added.    "Even in the absence of economic rationale in the tinmarket, psychological optimism alone is sufficient to secure aprice recovery of up to 20 ringgit per kilo," the bulletin said. REUTER
BOLIVIAN TIN MINERS START HUNGER STRIKE About 9,000 miners employed by thestate corporation Comibol went on hunger strike to press forhigher wages, a miners union spokesman said.     Victor Lopez, executive secretary of the miners union,told a news conference the strikers began to fast in the majortin mining districts of oruro and potosi and the action wouldspread tomorrow to la paz and other areas.     The government has charged that the strike by the minersunion, crippled by massive layoffs, is part of a left-wingdestabilisation plan to coincide with the visit of West Germanpresident Richard von Weizsaecker, who arrives on a four-dayofficial tour on Friday.     But miners union chief Simon Reyes told reporters thestrike had nothing to do with subversion and was to press formore government investment in Comibol.     The government of president Victor Paz Estenssoro hasstreamlined the deficit-ridden state mining corporation layingoff about 20,000 miners, two-thirds of the workforce, followinga collapse of the international tin price in 1985. Reuter
BOLIVIAN MINERS CALL GENERAL STRIKE About 9,000 miners employed by thestate corporation, Comibol, declared a general strike as frommidnight (0400 gmt) to press for higher salaries, a statementby the federation for Bolivian mine workers said.     It said the strike was called to defend the nationalisedmining industry. The miners were willing to negotiate with thegovernment of President Victor Paz Estenssoro, but only if itshowed an intention to meet the strikers' demands.     The government said the strike was designed to cause itembarrassment during the four-day visit of West GermanPresident Richard Von Weizsaecker, which starts on Friday.    The miners statement said police had violently evictedComibol office workers in the city of Oruro after they began ahunger strike yesterday.    The government has sacked about 20,000 miners from itsdeficit-ridden corporation since the collapse in theinternational price of tin. The lay-offs represent abouttwo-thirds of the original workforce. REUTER
BOLIVIAN MINERS CALL GENERAL STRIKE About 9,000 miners employed by thestate corporation, Comibol, declared a general strike as frommidnight (0400 gmt) to press for higher salaries, a statementby the federation for Bolivian mine workers said.     It said the strike was called to defend the nationalisedmining industry. The miners were willing to negotiate with thegovernment of President Victor Paz Estenssoro, but only if itshowed an intention to meet the strikers' demands.     The government said the strike was designed to cause itembarrassment during the four-day visit of West GermanPresident Richard Von Weizsaecker, which starts on Friday.    The miners statement said police had violently evictedComibol office workers in the city of Oruro after they began ahunger strike yesterday.    The government has sacked about 20,000 miners from itsdeficit-ridden corporation since the collapse in theinternational price of tin. The lay-offs represent abouttwo-thirds of the original workforce. REUTER
MAJOR TIN CENTERS PARALYSED BOLIVIA UNION SAYS A strike by 9,000 miners employed by thestate corporation Comibol has paralysed tin production in themajor centers of Huanuni, Corocoro, Siglo, Catavi and Colquiri,the Conflicts Secretary of the Bolivian Miners Federation,Cristobal Aranibar, told Reuters.     The strike began at midnight to press demands for higherwages and more funds for the nationalised mining industry.     The miners federation left the door open to negotiationswith the government but "only if the authorities show theirintention to find solution to our demands", Aranibar said.    The government of president Victor Paz Estenssoro, facedwith mounting social unrest against its economic policies, hassaid the miners strike was part of a campaign to discredit itduring the visit of West German president, Richard vonWeizsaecker, who arrives today for a four-day official visit.    The government froze salaries as part of its efforts topull Bolivia out of a deep economic crisis. According tocentral bank forecasts inflation will reach an annual 10 pctrate versus up to 20,000 pct in 1985.     In addition to the miners' strike, about 1,000 railwayfactory workers of the bolivian labour organization (COB) begana second day of a hunger strike in the country's main cities topress for substantial wage increases, a union leader said. Reuter
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - BOLIVIA Bolivia, once Latin America's mostdelinquent debtor, is preparing for a second InternationalMonetary Fund agreement after an economic stabilisation programhas effectively slowed inflation and reduced public spending.    A fund spokesman said an IMF team would visit La Pazshortly to discuss terms of the new agreement.    He said the IMF had disbursed 130 mln dlrs here and 20 mlndlrs are pending under the one year agreement that ends thismonth. The accord provided for a stand-by loan, a compensatoryfinancing facility and a structural adjustment facility.    The spokesman said that if the agreement is renewed,Bolivia can expect a further 60-mln-dlr stand-by loan over thenext 12 months.    Bolivia's agreement with the IMF, its first since 1980,opened the door to rescheduling negotiations with the ParisClub and Argentina and Brazil, which hold 2.5 billion dlrs ofBolivia's 4.0-billion-dlr foreign debt.    Central Bank President Javier Nogales told Reuters thenegotiations with the Paris Club, which have yet to befinalised, had been extremely successful.    Nogales said the Paris Club had agreed to rescheduleBolivia's debt over 10 years with five to six years grace andhad waived all interest payments until the end of 1988.    Bilateral discussions on interest rates continue, he said.    Nogales said Bolivia was expecting some 400 mln dlrs indisbursements this year from lender countries and internationalagencies, including the World Bank and the Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank, although diplomatic and banking sources putthe figure at closer to 300 mln dlrs.    Nogales said Bolivia's net international reserves arearound 250 mln dlrs, up from one mln dlrs when President IctorPaz Estenssoro took office in august 1985. Nogales said thecapital flow on Bolivia's debt servicing versus new credits hadchanged from a net outflow of 200 mln dlrs in 1985 to a netinflow of 130 mln dlrs in 1986.    Bolivia's return from the financial wilderness follows pazestenssoro's economic stabilisation program. He inheritedinflation of 23,000 pct a year, state enterprises that werelosing hundreds of mlns of dlrs and a currency that traded onthe black market at up to 16 times its official rate.    Paz estenssoro froze public sector wages, set a market-related rate for the peso, introduced tax reforms and laid offthousands of workers in state corporations.    Inflation has been running at 10 pct a year for the pastsix months, according to the Central Bank, and the government expects the economy to grow three pct this year after a 14 pctcontraction over the last six years.    The government is also proposing a novel solution to itsdebt to commercial banks, some 900 mln dlrs, on which interesthas not been paid since March, 1984.    Nogales said that over the next few months Bolivia wouldmake a one-time offer to buy back all its commercial debt atthe price it trades on the international secondary market -- 10-15 cents on the dlr. He said Bolivia's commercial banksteering committee agreed at a meeting in New York to considerthe proposal, but it is still unclear what proportion of thecountry's creditor banks will take up the offer.    One foreign banker speculated that Bolivia might be able tobuy back up to 30 pct of its commercial debt paper under thedeal, mostly from small banks who have written off their loansto the country.    But he said the larger creditors were more interested in ascheme of debt-equity swaps, similar to that which has operatedin Chile for the past two years.    The Bolivian government has yet to draw up proposals fordebt-equity swaps, but the banker said it was planning toprivatise more than 100 state companies and these could serveas a basis for such a scheme.    Foreign bankers said this type of proposal might proveattractive to Bolivia in the long run, especially as thegovernment realises that it will have to attract a large amountof new capital in order to grow.    Planning Minister Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada told Reutersthat Bolivia was hoping for five to six billion dlrs in newinvestment over the next 10 to 12 years.    The government realises that in order to remain viable,Bolivia will need to develop new exports.    The price of tin, which accounted for some 45 pct ofBolivia's exports in 1984, has collapsed on the world markets,and gas, the country's major revenue earner, is in abundantsupply in the region. Reuter
TIN PACT SPECIAL SESSION THIS WEEK ROUTINE A further special session of theInternational Tin Council, ITC, held here tomorrow, March 24,will give member countries an update on the latest debate overthe hundreds of millions of sterling lost when its buffer stockprice support scheme failed in October 1985, delegates said.    But the ITC quarterly session scheduled for April 8-9 willbe important, as the council will by then be wanting to decideon whether the current pact should be extended beyond June 30or just allowed to expire, delegates said. A two year extensionis possible. Reuter
TIN COUNCIL WINDING-UP VERDICT APPEALED Amalgamated Metal Trading, AMT, todaylodged an appeal against the ruling which prevented itspetition to wind up the International Tin Council, ITC.    The verdict was given by Mr Justice Millett on January 22,when AMT led an effort by ITC creditors to recover sums claimedby banks and London Metal Exchange brokers as a result of thecollapse of the ITC's buffer stock operations in October 1985.AMT had until March 26 to lodge its appeal.    The grounds for the appeal are that the judge erred onthree points when giving his verdict, Michael Arnold, head ofthe broker creditors group Tinco Realisations, told Reuters.    The judge ruled that the U.K. Court had no jurisdiction towind up the Tin Council, that the ITC was not an associationwithin the meaning of the Companies Act, and that thewinding-up petition was not a proceeding in respect of anarbitration award. AMT will contest all three points.    The U.K. Companies Act allows the possibility of thewinding-up of what it defines as an association, and AMT willargue that the Tin Council falls within this definition, Arnoldsaid.    The ITC has immunity except for the enforcement of anarbitration award, and thus it is important for AMT that thecourt accepts that the winding-up petition represents a move toenforce an arbitration ruling.    The court originally decided that the winding-up petitionwent wider than the enforcement of such a debt, an AMTspokesman said.    The appeal is unlikely to be heard for several months, buta case brought by fellow ITC creditor Maclaine Watson is to beheard on April 28. This is a move by the metal broker to have areceiver appointed over the ITC's assets.    Since similar arguments will be used in this case, it ispossible that any appeal in the Maclaine Watson case could beconsolidated with AMT's appeal, Arnold said.    Other ITC creditors have brought direct actions against theCouncil's member states and an application by the governmentsto strike out the first of these, brought by J.H. Rayner(Mincing Lane) Ltd, is to be heard on May 11.    Shearson Lehman Brothers action against the LME's tin"ring-out" in March 1986 is also scheduled to be heard in thenear future. The hearing date has now been put back slightly toJune 8. Reuter
BOLIVIA'S TOP UNION LEADER JOINS MINERS FAST Bolivia's top union leader today joineda hunger strike by 1,300 state employed miners and workers topress for higher wages he said.    Juan Lechin Oquendo, the veteran secretary general of theBolivian Labour Organization, COB, told reporters: "I amjoining the fast to abide with our call for a hunger strike".    Lechin, 83, became one of 12 COB leaders to join a hungerstrike to protest against the austerity programme of thegovernment of president Victor Paz Estenssoro.    The striking leader began his fast as leaders of 9,000miners employed by the state corporation COMIBOL were due tostar negotiations on ways to solve their conflict over pay.    About 1,300 miners and workers entered today their fourthday of fast in union offices and Roman Catholic churches topress for a substantial hike in Bolivia's minimum monthly wage,which is 40 bolivianos (about 20 dlrs), COB leader WalterDegadillo said.    "I will take part in the miners' negotiations because thatdoes not force me to suspend my fast," Lechin told reporters.    The COMIBOL miners' strike entered its fifth day to pressfor higher wages and more funds for the mining nationalisedindustry.    About 20,000 miners, or two-thirds of the working force,have been laid off through the government's decision tostreamline the deficit-ridden state corporation following acollapse in the international tin price.    The government, faced with mounting social unrest againstits economic policies, has called the miners' strike and fastspart of a campaign aimed at discrediting it during the visit ofWest German president Richard von Weizsaecker, who began afour-day visit last Friday.    "I regret not being able to attend an invitation bypresident Weizsaecker to a dinner tonight because I am on ahunger strike," Lechin told reporters. "I also have to orga-nise the strike."    Weizsaecker is hosting a dinner tonight for Paz Estenssoroand had invited both Lechin and Victor Lopez, the miners'federation top leader. Although lopez has not joined the fast,union sources said its unlikely he would attend the dinner. Reuter
TIN PACT EXTENSION LIKELY - ITC DELEGATES An extension of the sixth InternationalTin Agreement, ITA, for one or two years beyond June 30 isincreasingly likely, International Tin Council, ITC, delegatessaid following a special council session today.    A formal decision will be taken at the quarterly councilsession on April 8-9 when decisions are needed on the budgetand activities for the year beginning July one, they stated.    Delegates said most countries now favour a continued legalITC presence to answer the still unresolved legal disputes overthe outstanding debts of its buffer stock with court hearingslikely to continue well after the June 30 expiry of the pact.    The ITC was informally told of the appeal made yesterday byAmalgamated Metal Trading Ltd, AMT, against the January courtruling against it in the legal bid it led on behalf of ITCcreditor brokers to have the ITC wound up.    In January the judge ruled that the U.K. Court had nojurisdiction to wind up the tin council, the ITC was not anassociation within the meaning of the U.K. Companies act, andthe winding-up petition was not a proceeding in respect inrespect of an arbitration award.    AMT is appealing on all points and has said it is importantfor the court to accept that a winding-up petition is a move toenforce an arbitration ruling. Reuter
THAI TIN EXPORTS FALL IN FEBRUARY Thailand exported 1,120 tonnes of tinmetal in February, down from 1,816 tonnes the previous monthand 2,140 tonnes a year ago, the Mineral Resources Departmentsaid.    It said major buyers last month were Britain, Japan, theNetherlands, West Germany and the U.S. REUTER
COMMODITY PACTS MORE ORIENTED TOWARDS MARKET Consuming countries, chastened by thecollapse of International Tin Council (ITC) price supportoperations in 1985, are insisting more than ever before thatcommodity pacts reflect the reality of the markets they areserving, a Reuter survey showed.    They want price ranges to be more responsive to markettrends - to avoid overstimulating output and straining theaccords' support operations - and intervention rules that avoidthe risk of exports by non-members undermining the pacts.Consumers and producers, mindful of ITC buffer stock losses,have also sought strict conditions for buffer operations.    Importers and some key exporting countries have shunned ageneralised approach to commodity price stabilisation andprefer to assess each commodity case by case, the surveyshowed.    The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) last week setprecise limits on what the Buffer Stock Manager (BSM) could dounder the new agreement. It imposed daily and weekly purchaselimits, prohibited the BSM from operating on futures marketsand stipulated, after consumer insistence, that up to 15 pct oftotal buffer stock purchases could be of non-member cocoa. Thiswill help prevent lower quality cocoa from Malaysia, theworld's fourth largest producer, undermining the market.    The cocoa pact establishes precise differentials the BufferStock Manager must use when purchasing varying grades.    A new International Natural Rubber Agreement (INRA) wasadopted earlier this month in Geneva. Importing and exportingcountries agreed several changes to make the reference pricemore responsive to market trends and they eliminated provisionsunder which the buffer stock could borrow from banks to financeoperations. Direct cash contributions from members will fundbuffer stock purchases. Bank financing was a particular featureof the failed ITC buffer stock which suffered losses runninginto hundreds of millions of sterling. Legal wrangles continue.    Recent International Coffee Organization (ICO) negotiationsin London exemplified the degree to which consumers insist thatagreements reflect market reality, commodity analysts said.    Consumers and a small group of producers argued that"objective criteria" should be used to define export quotashares, which would have meant a reduction in the share ofBrazil, the world's leading producer. Brazil wanted to maintainits previous quota share of 30 pct. The talks broke down and,although an ICO executive board meeting starts in London today,delegates and trade sources see chances of any near termnegotiations on export quota distribution as remote.    International agreements exist for sugar and wheat. Thesedo not have any economic clauses but provide a forum fordiscussions on possible future economic agreements, collectstatistics and draw up market analyses. Analysts saiddifferences between sugar exporting countries have held up anyprogress towards an accord with economic teeth, while sheercompetition between major exporters amid a world grain glutmilitate against any pact with economic provisions for wheat.    An alternative focus for commodity discussions areinternational study groups, made up of governments with advicefrom industry, such as those for lead and zinc and rubber.    The U.N. Common fund for commodities, with a planneddirectly contributed capital of 470 mln dlrs, has failed tobecome operational because neither the U.S. Nor the SovietUnion has ratified it. U.S. Officials in Washington said theU.S. Doubts the fund would be able to fulfil its objectives,citing the lack of widespread support.    U.S. Officials in Washington and Malaysian officials inKuala Lumpur expressed a policy of looking at each commoditypact case by case. U.S. Officials said it has been willing tostudy individual cases for economically sound, market-orientedcommodity accords balancing producer and consumer interests.    "We see little to be gained by attempting to increase theprice of a commodity whose long-term trend is downward,"official Administration policy states. The U.S. Currentlybelongs to only two international commodity agreements thathave economic clauses - the International Coffee Agreement(ICA) and INRA - but it is also a member of the sugar and wheatpacts.    The U.S. Did not join the International Cocoa Agreementbecause it considered its proposed price ranges unrealistic andnot designed to protect the interests of consuming countries,the State Department said. U.S. Officials singled out the INRAas the one commodity agreement that seems to be working.    U.S. Negotiators were successful in getting other membersof the pact to agree that the price review and adjustmentmechanism of the rubber agreement would accurately reflectmarket trends and also to continue the accord as a marketoriented agreement, U.S. Officials said.    Canadian officials in Ottawa also said they haveconsistently tried to look at membership of commodity pacts onthe merits of each case. Malaysian Primary Industries MinisterLim Keng Yaik told Reuters in Kuala Lumpur his country, theworld's top producer of rubber, tin and palm oil, decides itsparticipation in international commodity pacts case by case.    Malaysia is a member of the Association of Tin ProducingCountries (ATPC) which produce 65 pct of world tin. The ATPClaunched a plan to limit member tin exports to 96,000 tonnesfor a year from March to cut the tin surplus to 50,000 from70,000.    Economist in the West German Ministry of Agriculture anddelegate to cocoa, wheat and sugar agreements Peter Baron toldReuters in London, "Agreements with economic clauses tostabilise prices could function if fixed price ranges wereclose to market reality, if there was full participation byproducers and consumers, and if participants were prepared totake their obligations in the framework of the agreementseriously."    But Baron added, "No real sanctions are available for acountry that doesn't stick to its obligations...The Germanapproach is sceptical. We don't think agreements are the bestinstrument to help developing countries. They were never meantto be a vehicle for the transfer of resources and that is howdeveloping countries often interpret them."    Traditionally Britain has always been supportive ofcommodity agreements, reflecting its strong links with ThirdWorld producing countries. But recently demands for morestringent and justifiable pacts with emphasis placed on theneed for "intellectual honesty" and "objective criteria" havegrown.    British officials stress the need for commodity pacts to bea two way partnership in trade rather than a disguise for aid.    It is now seen as essential that any pacts involving directmarket participation through a buffer stock have a high degreeof transparency and do not contain the risk of open-endedborrowing that occurred in the tin pact, they said. U.K.Delegates talk of stabilisation and the need for prices toreflect changes in market structure and price trends ratherthan dictate what prices should be.    A Foreign Ministry official in Tokyo said Japan urges pricerealism in commodity pacts, adding high prices inflate supply.    A government spokesman in Paris said France is favourableto commodity pacts. France, a large consumer and producer ofsugar, favours a sugar pact as long as it reflects the realmarket situation, particularly regarding stocks.    Indonesia's Foreign Minister Mochtar Kusumaatmadja toldReuters in Jakarta: "These agreements can work as long as theproblems are cyclical..But it's another matter when there arestructural problems..But we are still committed to commodityagreements as an act of faith." Nicaraguan External TradeMinister Alejandro Martinez Cuenca said in London producerscannot afford not to give their backing to commodityagreements.    "The political will is not there on the part of someconsumers to make agreements work," Martinez Cuenca said.    The head of the economics department in the BrazilianForeign Ministry, Sebastiao do Rego Barros, told Reuters anagreement can be successful if it keeps a link with marketreality. If you have an agreement such as coffee with a systemof quotas, with a link between prices practised inside the pactand actual market prices, it can work. UNCTAD spokesman GrahamShanley said consuming countries realise steady export earningsenhance developing countries' ability to service debt and meangreater demand for industrialised nations' capital goods. REUTER
MALAYSIAN MINERS SAY U.S. SELLING TOO MUCH TIN Malaysian miners criticised theU.S. For violating an agreement with Southeast Asian producersby selling more stockpiled tin in 1986 than agreed.    The U.S. General Services Administration sold 5,490 tonnesof tin in 1986, well above an agreed upon annual limit of 3,000tonnes, the States of Malaya Chamber of Mines said.    In its latest annual report, it said the U.S. Had promisedto limit sales of tin in a memorandum of understanding signedwith the six-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations(ASEAN) in December 1983.    "The U.S. Appears to have lost sight of the U.S./ASEANMemorandum of Understanding," the Chamber said.    The Chamber estimated the U.S. Strategic stockpile held180,444 tonnes of tin in December 1986, 137,744 tonnes inexcess of of its original stockpile goal of 42,700.    The main ASEAN tin producers are Malaysia, Indonesia andThailand, which produce the bulk of the world's tin. REUTER
U.S. DEFENDS STOCKPILED TIN SALES IN 1986 The United States defended its salesof stockpiled tin in 1986 in reaction to criticism fromMalaysian miners who have said it violated an agreement withsoutheast Asian producers.    "The United States has continued to abide by the spirit ofthe memorandum of understanding and has consulted with theASEAN states on GSA tin disposals," a State Department spokesmansaid in a statement.    "The views of the ASEAN governments have been taken intoaccount in determining disposal levels," the statement said.    The United States and the ASEAN countries signed amemorandum of understanding concerning tin disposals by theU.S. General Services Administration (GSA) in December 1983.    In its latest annual report, the States of Malaya Chamberof Mines said the GSA sold 5,490 tonnes of tin in 1986, wellabove an agreed upon annual limit of 3,000 tonnes. "The UnitedStates appears to have lost sight of the U.S./ASEAN Memorandumof Understanding," it said.    The State Department statement said GSA tin disposalsincreased in calendar year 1986 due to changed marketconditions. During the first quarter of calendar year 1987,they have been running at a lower rate compared to 1986.    The spokesman declined to say how much stockpiled tin theGSA sold last year, however. Reuter
SUBROTO SAYS EXTENSION OF TIN PACT IS UNREALISTIC An extension of the International TinAgreement (ITA) is unrealistic and the pact should be allowedto lapse, Indonesian Mines and Energy Minister Subroto toldreporters.    Asked about Jakarta's position for the quarterly session ofthe International Tin Council on April 8-9, Subroto saidIndonesia had agreed to the formation of a study group to lookinto how to replace the pact.    But he said that given the present disagreement betweenproducers and consumers, there is unlikely to be any follow-upto the ITA.    Asked by reporters if Indonesia would support an extensionof the ITA, he said, "No one will propose that. It's alsounrealistic to do so."    Subroto played a key part in securing agreement between theseven member Association of Tin Producing Countries tointroduce a quota system which limited their exports andconsumption to 96,000 tonnes in the year starting March 1.    Indonesia's quota was set at 24,516 tonnes. REUTER
THAI TRADE DEFICIT WIDENS IN FIRST QUARTER Thailand's trade deficit widened to 4.5billion baht in the first quarter of 1987 from 2.1 billion ayear ago, the Business Economics Department said.    It said Janunary/March imports rose to 65.1 billion bahtfrom 58.7 billion. Thailand's improved business climate thisyear resulted in a 27 pct increase in imports of raw materialsand semi-finished products.    The country's oil import bill, however, fell 23 pct in thefirst quarter due to lower oil prices.    The department said first quarter exports expanded to 60.6billion baht from 56.6 billion.    Export growth was smaller than expected due to lowerearnings from many key commodities including rice whoseearnings declined 18 pct, maize 66 pct, sugar 45 pct, tin 26pct and canned pineapples seven pct.    Products registering high export growth were jewellery up64 pct, clothing 57 pct and rubber 35 pct. REUTER
SUBROTO SAYS INDONESIA SUPPORTS TIN PACT EXTENSION Mines and Energy Minister Subrotoconfirmed Indonesian support for an extension of the sixthInternational Tin Agreement (ITA), but said a new pact was notnecessary.    Asked by Reuters to clarify his statement on Monday inwhich he said the pact should be allowed to lapse, Subroto saidIndonesia was ready to back extension of the ITA.    "We can support extension of the sixth agreement," he said."But a seventh accord we believe to be unnecessary."    The sixth ITA will expire at the end of June unless atwo-thirds majority of members vote for an extension. REUTER
EC MAINLY FOR TIN EXTENSION, NO U.K. STAND TAKEN European Community (EC) members of theInternational Tin Council, except Britain, have said they areprepared to back an extension of the International TinAgreement, an EC spokesman said.    He said at a meeting of EC states' representatives hereyesterday, Britain undertook to communicate its own decision toits partners today. It said it was not ready yesterday to takea stand but did not say why.    He added nine other EC states backed an extension. Spainand Portugal, which are not members of the International TinCouncil, raised no objections to a common EC stance in favour. REUTER
PARIS GROUP PUBLISHING DAILY FRANC TIN PRICE The Association of White Metals hasdecided to publish a daily tin price here in French francs per100 kilos, the French Federation of Non-Ferrous Metals said.    The price, quoted for the first time yesterday, wasintroduced as the lack of tin quotes was causing problems forsome French companies, a spokesman for the non-ferrous metalsassociation said.    Today's price was set at 4,776 francs per 100 kilos andTuesday's at 4,790.    The International Chamber of Commerce stopped publishing atin price after the London Metal Exchange (LME) stopped tintrading on October 24, 1985.    The Association has tested the basis it uses to calculate aFrench franc price over the last few months to ensure it wasreliable, the spokesman said.    The French franc price is pre-tax, for specified quality, aminimum 99.9 pct purity, at a French port or border railwaystation and a minimum delivery of 10 tonnes.    The French Federation of Non-Ferrous Metals groups variousmetal associations including the Association of White Metals. Reuter
TALKS CONTINUE ON TIN AGREEMENT EXTENSION Discussions on the possible extension ofthe sixth International Tin Agreement (ITA) began at thequarterly session of the International Tin Council (ITC) butthe Council is still waiting for decisions from various memberstates.    A number of producer governments in particular have notdecided their final position on whether the ITA should beextended for up to two years or wound down after it expires onJune 30, according to delegate sources.    Earlier today European Community (EC) members decided toback an extension, with the exception of Britain, whichundertook to communicate its decision to its EC partners later.    Delegates said it could be Friday before all the membercountries declare their positions on the possible extension.Today's full Council session started shortly before 1500 GMTafter the scheduled 1330 start was delayed by an ECcoordination meeting.    The council reconvenes at 0930 GMT tomorrow, althoughdelegates said the morning is likely to be taken up with minortechnical matters and the main issue will probably not bediscussed before the afternoon session. Reuter
SPOT TIN EASIER ON EUROPEAN FREE MARKET Spot tin on the European free market wasindicated in the easier range 4,200 to 4,230 stg per tonne, forhigh grade metal in warehouse Rotterdam, down 20 stg fromyesterday's afternoon kerb close.    Stability in sterling versus the dollar continued to applypressure to a market which is coming close to testing apsychological chart support base at 4,200 stg, traders said.    Dealers said major consumers still need to cover their Mayand June requirements but are holding out for even loweroffers. Reported high grade tin business in London was confinedto end April metal at 4,225 stg.    Small-scale spot business was reported by West Germanoperators at 12.60 and 12.63 marks per kilo although the marketwas still being undercut by Chinese material, which traded atone stage down to 12.54 marks per kilo, traders said. REUTER
CONSENSUS SEEN ON TIN PACT EXTENSION The quarterly session of theInternational Tin Council (ITC) continued without formalagreement on an extension of the sixth International TinAgreement (ITA), but delegates said it was apparent there was ageneral consensus the Agreement should be prolonged.    Some delegations are still awaiting formal instructionsfrom capitals, but informally most have indicated they favouran extension, delegates said.    This afternoon's session was used by delegates to seekfurther clarification on some of the issues involved, and todiscuss internal matters.    Some sources were optimistic a resolution on an extensioncould be passed tomorrow but others suggested a special sessionwould be convened to adopt the resolution after the Associationof Tin Producing Countries meeting April 14 to 16.    The full Council session resumes tomorrow at 1330 GMT aftera European Community coordination meeting at 1100. Reuter
LEGAL DISPUTES FORCE NEW HOLDING COMPANY FOR LME The London Metal Exchange (LME) said ithas applied to form a new holding company because ofuncertainties relating to lawsuits filed over the 1985 tincrisis.    The new company, to be called The London Metal ExchangeLtd, would replace a two-tiered committee and board structurewith a single managing board by the end of July.    The exchange said it took the steps after the Securitiesand Investments Board said unresolved legal tussles resultingfrom the tin crisis of October 1985 might prevent acceptance ofthe LME's application to become a Recognized InvestmentExchange.    The exchange currently is run by The Metal Market andExchange Company Ltd, which is facing a law suit linked to tin.    The assets needed to run the exchange will be transferredto the new company at fair market value, it added. Reuter
TIN PACT EXTENDED FOR TWO YEARS The Sixth International Tin Agreement,ITA, has been extended for two years from July 1, 1987, theInternational Tin Council, ITC, said.    The extension was formally agreed at a resumed specialsession of the council held here this morning and follows asession early this month when the council agreed in principleto extend the pact but had to await the formal approval of somemember governments.    The extension will enable the council to continue with itsstatistical work and studies of the tin industry. Reuter
TIN TRADERS' RESPONSE MUTED TO KL FUTURES MARKET European free market tin traders made asomewhat muted response to plans for a Kuala Lumpurdollar-based tin futures market due to be launched in October.    Traders said the new market would probably be a usefultrading medium for Japan and other South East Asian tininterests although European traders generally appear to bereasonably satisfied with the current "free market" systemwhich has been operating since London Metal Exchange, LME, tintrading ceased in October 1985. Dealers here will also want tosee how acceptable foreign metal will be on the new market andwhat sort of demand develops for forward deliveries.    There is also a view among European traders that, while theproposed Kuala Lumpur tin futures market would provide anotheruseful reference point, a market inaugurated by the Malaysiangovernment -- in the past viewed as a major player at times bythe trade -- would make participants uncomfortable.    Some traders expressed a preference for a resumption oftrading on the London Metal Exchange, but they added that whilethere has been some behind the scenes discussion on the subjecta definite move is unlikely until outstanding High Courtlitigation actions have been resolved.    Spot tin prices on the European free market are currentlyaround 4,200 stg per tonne for high grade metal in warehouseRotterdam. Over the past 18 months the price moved to a tenyear low of 3,400 stg in March 1986 and rebounded to as high as4,680 stg in December 1986.    This compares with 8,140 stg last paid when LME tradingceased in October 1985 and a record high tin price of 10,350stg traded for Cash Standard Grade metal in June of that year.    LME warehouse stocks are now near a two-year low at 28,065tonnes, having fallen steadily from a record high of 72,485tonnes reached in February 1986.    Traders said the free market turned bullish during latelast year based on producer forecasts of a supply/demanddeficit of some 28,000/29,000 tonnes. Analysts were predictingprices of up to 5,000 stg per tonne during 1987.    However, the trend was reversed following a strong upswingin sterling versus the dollar and values fell back briefly to4,100 stg last month after approaching 4,700 stg in December.    The decline accelerated as producers who had sold verylittle metal at the higher levels became competitive sellers.    There was also a lack of significant demand from majorsteel mills who made large purchases prior to the new year.    Traders say the 15 ITC creditor banks' original tinholdings of nearly 45,000 tonnes have now been almost halved,and the bulk of material still available is being held byMalaysian and Japanese firms which are reluctant to depress themarket with unwanted metal.    Some 80,000 tonnes were held by banks and brokers after theInternational Tin Council's, ITC, buffer stock manager haltedsupport operations on the LME on behalf of the 22 membersnations of the International Tin Agreement.    The overhang of metal was reduced further by brokerShearson Lehman Brothers, which earlier this year reportedhaving sold its ITC-related holdings and halved its overall tinposition.    Analysts see no immediate sign of a rally in European tinprices and movements are still expected to be largely relatedto currency fluctuations, unless significant consumer demandemerges for the third quarter.    The Association of Tin Producing Countries, ATPC, has madeefforts since the collapse of the ITA to achieve higher worldprices by attempting to bring all major producers under anexport control umbrella, but to date Brazil and China, twomajor producers, remain unaffected by the ATPC argument andapparently are continuing to offer material at discounts toconsumers in main European trading centres, dealers said. Reuter
ITC CONTESTS USE OF DOCUMENTS AS COURT EVIDENCE The International Tin Council, ITC,intervened in a High Court hearing in an attempt to prevent thepresentation of internal Council documents as evidence.    The intervention in Shearson Lehman's action against theLondon Metal Exchange over its "ring out" of tin contracts in1986 is likely to have implications for other cases in whichthe Council is involved following the collapse of its bufferstock operations in October 1985, ITC delegates said.    The ITC's case is being presented by Professor RosalynHiggins and is expected to take a further one or two days nextweek. Court does not sit tomorrow.    In essence the Council is claiming that its status issimilar to that of a foreign embassy and that its archives cantherefore not be used in an English court of law.    The Council ended its quarterly session today ahead ofschedule. The meeting had been expected to go on until tomorrowwhen the European Community's legal advisers were due toattend, but delegates reviewed the progress of the variouslegal actions today.    Otherwise, the meeting was occupied with internaladministrative matters, delegates said.    The ITC will continue to operate with a reduced staff afterJune 30 following the two year extension of the sixthInternational Tin Agreement.    As well as dealing with the ongoing litigation, the Councilwill continue with its statistical work and carry out someresearch studies, although staffing in the research departmentis being cut to one from two previously.    At this week's session the Council elected Philip Sparkesof Australia as first vice-chairman for the producing membersand Heinz Hofer of Switzerland as second vice-chairman for theconsumers for the year from July 1. Future quarterly sessionsare scheduled for October 5/7 and December 14/16. Reuter
THAI SMELTER FACES TIN CONCENTRATE SUPPLY SHORTAGE Thailand's major tin exporter andproducer <Thailand Smelting and Refining Co> (Thaisarco) saidit may be unable to meet all its overseas orders because ofinsufficient supplies of tin concentrates from Thai mines.    Local mines cut combined daily tin concentrate sales toThaisarco, a Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD.AS> unit, to less than20 tonnes earlier this month from a previous 40 to 45 tonneaverage, commercial manager Yoot Eamsa-ard told Reuters.    He said the cuts resulted from a government decision to letthe temporary business and municipal tax reductions on exportedtin lapse on June 3.    The taxes, levied on the tin mines, rose to 4.4 pct thismonth from 1.1 pct ad valorem over the past year. The lowerlevels had been introduced last year as a temporary move to aidthe tin industry after prices collapsed in late 1985.    Yoot said Thaisarco had to dig into its stocks to meet alarge portion of new overseas orders which were averaging 100tonnes per day.    As a result, he said, Thailand could fail to fill some3,000 tonnes of its 19,000 tonne tin export quota allocated bythe Association of Tin Producing Countries (ATPC) for the yearending February 1988.    Reduced tin exports this year could cause the ATPC toallocate a lower quota next year, Yoot said.    The supplies shortage should prove temporary, however,because the Thai cabinet is expected to review a MineralResources Department proposal to reinstate the low taxes latethis month, Yoot said.    The department said Thailand exported 7,715 tonnes of tinduring January/May compared with 8,462 tonnes a year ago. REUTER
MALAYSIA TO RESEARCH TIN, WARY ON VEG OILS TAX Malaysia is to urge fellow tinproducing countries to contribute more money towards researchinto new uses for the metal, Malaysian primary industriesminister Lim Keng Yaik told Reuters in an interview.    Lim, in Brussels on a tour of Europe and America, said hehad instructed Malaysia's representatives on the executivecommittee of the Association of Tin Producing Countries, ATPC,to draw up a paper on the matter.    Lim earlier met European Community farm commissioner FransAndriessen and industry commissioner Karl-Heinz Narjes.    He said though it now appeared likely Commission proposalsfor a tax on vegetable and marine oils and fats would bedefeated, he feared the Commission would revive the idea.    Lim noted Andriessen this week promised that if the tax wasadopted and third countries suffered export losses as a result,they would be compensated through access to the EC foralternative exports.    "Since most of our products are commodity based, I cannotsee how this would work out in our case," Lim said.    Malaysian palm oil exports to the EC are worth about 250mln dlrs a year.    The tin research proposal would be presented at an ATPCmeeting to be held in Kuala Lumpur in September.    "Not enough research and development effort has been put inby tin producers and we have been pushed out by substitutessuch as aluminium, paper and plastics," Lim said.    He mentioned the use of inorganic tin in pesticides as anexciting possible new application.    Lim said he could not estimate the amount of extra moneywhich needed to be spent on research into new uses before thenew paper was produced.    He said Narjes told him there appeared no fundamentalbarriers to EC states quickly ratifying the new InternationalRubber Agreement, INRA, although translations of the accordinto some EC languages are still being awaited.    Lim, who will sign and ratify the agreement on Malaysia'sbehalf when he visits New York during his current tour, said itwas important there should not be a long "interregnum" betweenthe old agreement lapsing in October and the new one cominginto force.    He described the present accord as a model for commodityagreements due to its being signed by nearly all producing andconsuming countries and by virtue of its review systems andcontrol over buffer stock management. Reuter
TIN COUNCIL ALLOWED APPEAL ON USE OF DOCUMENTS Britain's highest court has decided theInternational Tin Council (ITC) can appeal over the use of ITCdocuments in court actions.    On November 2 the House of Lords will decide if and to whatextent ITC documents, whether circulated or not, are admissibleas court evidence. Lawyers working in the legal tangle leftfrom the October 1985 collapse of the tin market said thishearing is likely to last a few days.    On Wednesday the Court of Appeal will link the outstandingITC cases that have so far reached it and a single set ofhearings could begin in early January, they added.    The House of Lords ruling on the use of ITC documents willbe referred back to the action by two Shearson Lehman companiesagainst the London Metal Exchange although the underlying caseis not expected to be resumed until mid-1988.    The Court of Appeal hearings include action between brokersand cases by brokers and banks against the ITC and the membergovernments of the tin council.    Action taken by brokers seeking both the winding up of theITC or and placing it into receivership will also be covered bythe Court of Appeal legal schedule. Reuter
