BRAZIL ANTI-INFLATION PLAN LIMPS TO ANNIVERSARY inflationplan, initially hailed at home and abroad as the saviour of theeconomy, is limping towards its first anniversary amid soaringprices, widespread shortages and a foreign payments crisis.    Announced last February 28 the plan froze prices, fixed thevalue of the new Cruzado currency and ended widespreadindexation of the economy in a bid to halt the country's 250pct inflation rate.    But within a year the plan has all but collapsed.    "The situation now is worse than it was. Although there wasinflation, at least the economy worked," a leading bankeconomist said.    The crumbling of the plan has been accompanied by adramatic reversal in the foreign trade account. In 1984 and1985 Brazil's annual trade surpluses had been sufficient tocover the 12 billion dlrs needed to service its 109 billion dlrforeign debt.    For the first nine months of 1986 all seemed to be ontarget for a repeat, with monthly surpluses averaging onebillion dlrs. But as exports were diverted and importsincreased to avoid further domestic shortages the trade surplusplunged to 211 mln dlrs in October and since then has averagedunder 150 mln. Reuter
JAPAN FEBRUARY INTERIM TRADE SURPLUS JUMPS Japan's customs-cleared trade surplus inthe first 20 days of February jumped to 3.58 billion dlrs from1.94 billion a year earlier, the Finance Ministry said.    The February interim surplus was sharply up from a 965.04mln dlr surplus in the same January period.    FOB exports rose 14.6 pct from a year earlier in the first20 days of February to 10.91 billion, while CIF imports fell3.2 pct to 7.33 billion.    The average dollar/yen rates were 152.32 for exports and152.31 for imports against 196.61 for exports and 196.27 forimports a year earlier. REUTER
SOUTH KOREA TO HOLD CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS DOWN South Korea plans to take steps to keepits 1987 current account surplus below five billion dlrs,Economic Planning Board Minister Kim Mahn-je said.    Kim told reporters the government would repay loans aheadof schedule and encourage firms to increase imports andinvestment abroad to prevent the current account surplus fromrising too quickly.    Last year South Korea's current account surplus was 4.65billion dlrs. It widened to 622 mln dlrs in January from 484mln in December and compared with a deficit of 334 mln inJanuary 1986, Bank of Korea figures show. REUTER
SWEDEN TO GO AHEAD WITH S. AFRICAN TRADE SANCTIONS Sweden's ruling Social DemocraticParty gave full power to the government to decree unilateraltrade sanctions against South Africa, Prime Minister IngvarCalrsson said.    Carlsson told a news conference the party decided the fightagainst apartheid took priority over Sweden's traditionalpolicy of only adopting sanctions with the backing of the U.N.Security Council.    The government will decide later what form the tradeboycott will take and when it will come into force. REUTER
JAPAN, U.S. SET TO BEGIN HIGH-LEVEL TRADE TALKS Japan and the U.S. Kick off top-leveltrade talks tomorrow amid signs officials from both sides aregrowing increasingly irritated with each other.    The talks, held annually at sub-cabinet level to review thewhole gamut of U.S./Japan economic relations, will pave the wayfor American Secretary of State George Schultz's one daystop-over here at end-week on his way home from China.    Faced with growing Congressional protectionist pressure,the U.S. Administration is pressing Japan for speedy action toreduce its still huge trade surplus, U.S. Officials said.    "We appreciate their frustration," a senior Japanesegovernment official said. "But we are also frustrated."    The official said the 40 pct rise of the yen over the last18 months has hit Japan hard, forcing exporters to slashspending and lay off workers to make up for lost sales abroad.That has not yet shown up in dollar-based statistics on trade,but it will, he said.    He said the U.S. Administration was ignoring the progressthat has been made and instead emphasizing the problems thatremain when it talks with Congress.    "It would only take five minutes to list theiraccomplishments," a senior U.S. Official replied.    The talks begin tomorrow with high-level discussions on theeconomic structures of both countries and how they affect thebilateral trade imbalance, which last year amounted to 51.48billion dlrs in Japan's favour.    On the following two days, the topics will range frommultilateral trade talks under the auspices of the GeneralAgreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) to such bilateral tradeproblems as super computers.    The structural talks are intended to be free-wheelingdiscussions among senior officials. Tomorrow's topics includesavings and investment issues such as consumer credit andhousing, and the implications of government budget deficits.    These talks come at a particularly delicate time for theJapanese government, which is facing increasing domesticpressure to abandon its tight-fisted fiscal policy andstimulate the sagging economy by spending more.    Some U.S. Officials complained Japan has no intention ofboosting domestic demand and imports, as Washington wants.    Japanese officials in turn pointed the finger at the hugeU.S. Budget deficit as one of the main culprits for the tradeimbalance. That budget deficit has meant that the U.S. Isbuying more imports.    Japan seems particularly peeved at being singled in a drafttrade bill before the Senate as a nation following adverserialtrade practices. "It condemns Japan without due process," oneJapanese official said.    That reference spoils what is otherwise a well-thought-outbill introduced by Democratic Senator Lloyd Bentsen, he said.    Japan is also not totally happy with the administration'strade bill, particularly its proposal to establish reciprocalaccess to foreign markets as one criteria for retaliatory tradeaction by the U.S., Officials said.    Nevertheless, Japanese officials said they remain in a weakbargaining position, especially with the threat of a trade billoverhanging them.    "We have no leverage," one official admitted.    As a result, Tokyo is striving to meet U.S. Complaintsabout its trade practices in a variety of fields, includingsuper computers.    The U.S. Is pressing for greater access to the Japanesesuper computer market.    The Japanese government has sent a long questionnaire topublic institutions like universities which buy thesophisticated machines in hopes of eventually setting upinformal bidding procedures easily understood by all potentialsellers, officials said. REUTER
TAIWAN PLANS NEW TARIFF CUTS Taiwan plans another round of deep tariffcuts this year to help narrow its trade surplus with the U.S.,A senior economic planner said.    Wang Chao-Ming, vice-chairman of the council for economicplanning and development, told Reuters Taiwan would furtherreduce import tariffs on 1,700 products sometime in the secondhalf of this year.    Cuts of up to 50 pct on those items were made last year andWang said further cuts would go much deeper.    "We have to speed up liberalisation and cut import tariffsfaster and more substantially," he said.    The United States, Taiwan's main trading partner, has saidthe island's import tariffs, still ranging from a high ofalmost 60 pct, were unacceptable. It has criticised the cuts astoo selective.     Taiwan's trade surplus with the United States hit 13.6billion dlrs last year. The surplus has boosted foreignexchange reserves to 50 billion dlrs, which Wang said madeTaiwan a target for U.S. Protectionism.    Wang said the trade surplus and the reserves weakenedTaiwan's position in talks with Washington over export quotas,particularly for shoes, textiles and machine tools which areamong the island's main export-earners.    A special Taiwanese trade delegation leaves for Washingtontomorrow to try to renegotiate an agreement signed last yearlimiting exports of Taiwan textiles.    Under the accord, Taiwan's textile export growth waslimited to 0.5 pct each year until 1988. Taipei has said it islosing markets to South Korea and Hong Kong which were givenmore generous terms. REUTER...
TALKS SHOW NEW CANADIAN CONFIDENCE, GROUP SAYS Canada's decision to raise the issueof a free trade pact with the U.S. was a sign of what many seeas a new spirit of Canadian self-confidence, a public policystudy group said     "It suggests the Canada of the immediate post-war period,when it was a major player in the process of building a postwarworld," the Washington-based Atlantic Council said.    U.S. and Canadian negotiators opened talks last summeraimed at dismantling trade barriers between the two countries,the world's biggest trading partners with crossborder shipmentsof about 150 billion dlrs annually.    The council's study said the trade talks, with a deadlineof October for an agreement, are the biggest issue inU.S.-Canadian relations.   The study said liberalized trade between the two countrieswould improve the competitiveness of their economies in worldmarkets and lessen trade irritants which now mar their ties.    The council said "in the past most Canadians have shied awayfrom the notion of a free-trade arrangement, fearing to beoverwhelmed economically and politically by a closerassociation with a country 10 times their size in population."    But at the same time, it added, Canadians realized theirdomestic market was too small to permit the mass production andsales needed to raise productivity to the level demanded by anincreasingly competitive world.    The council said that in the talks, Canada is chieflyinterested in minimizing the imposing of U.S. duties against allegedly subsidized exports.    A recent example was the 15 per cent duty the U.S. imposedon Canadian lumber exports on grounds the shipments were beingsubsidized.    The council said the chief U.S. concerns included endingcurbs against U.S. banking, insurance, telecommunications, andthe so-called "cultural industries" - publishing, broadcastingand films.    It said other major U.S.-Canadian issues were defensecooperation, "acid rain" and the U.S. rejection of a Canadianassertion of sovereignty over waters of the Northwest Passage. Reuter
FRANCE HAS LITTLE ROOM FOR MANOEUVRE, OECD SAYS French industry is failing to produce thegoods its markets need and its loss of competitiveness has leftthe government little room for manoeuvre to reflate theeconomy, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation andDevelopment said.    With gross domestic product likely to grow only 2.1 pctthis year, the same rate as last year, unemployment could climbto 11.5 pct of the workforce by mid-1988, from its present 10.9pct, it said in an annual review of the French economy.    The report said the French economy was "increasinglyill-adapted to demand" selling goods at "uncompetitive relativeprices on both domestic and export markets."    "France's poor export performance reflects a geographicalbias in favour of markets less dynamic than the average...And...A substantial loss of market share...In the past 18months," it said.    Pointing to a likely widening of the French trade deficitto around 2.9 billion dlrs this year from 2.4 billion in 1986,it warned that a further depreciation of the dollar against thefranc could lead to "a (renewed) loss of competitivenessrelative not only to the United States but also to the newlyindustrialised countries."    This could result in further major losses of market share,particularly in the non-OECD area, which accounts for almost aquarter of French exports, it said.    Until the competitive ability of industry improved, theauthorities would have "little scope for macroeconomicmanoeuvre, even if the unemployment situation or the need toencourage a pickup in investment could require demand to growmore briskly," it added.    But rising unemployment could help to hold down wagedemands, contributing to a slowdown in inflation to around atwo pct annual rate this year and early next, the OECD said.    Written mainly in December last year, the report took noaccount of a rise in oil prices early in 1987, and a 0.9 pctsurge in January consumer prices, caused partly by thegovernment's deregulation of service sector tariffs.    "We took a bet that the freeing of prices would not provokerunaway rises, and it is not absolutely certain that bet hasbeen lost," one OECD official commented.    OECD officials said the January data and a rise in oilprices above the 15 dlrs a barrel average assumed in thereport, indicated an upward revision in the inflation forecastto around 2.5 or three pct.    The government last week revised its forecast up to between2.4 and 2.5 pct from two pct, against last year's 2.1 pct.    But the OECD backed the government's view that theunderlying trend for inflation remained downwards this year,with a slowdown in domestic costs taking over from last year'sfall in oil and commodity prices as the chief cause ofdisinflation.    With French unit productivity costs now among the lowest inthe OECD area, the inflation differential between France andits main trading rival, West Germany, could fall to just onepct this year, it said.    On the other hand, the report noted, consumer prices forindustrial goods and private services have been rising steeplyas companies built up their profits.    "For the disinflationary process to continue , and pricecompetitiveness to become lastingly compatible with exchangerate stability, it is essential that wage restraint continue,"it said. REUTER
JAPAN MOVES TO TIGHTEN CHIP-EXPORT CURBS The Ministry of International Trade andIndustry (MITI) acted to tighten restrictions on microchipexports to countries other than the U.S. To preserve aU.S.-Japan pact on semiconductor trade, but major Japanesechipmakers doubt its usefulness.    A MITI spokesman said his ministry had asked chipmakers toissue certificates to specified trading houses stating they areauthorised exporters.    Trading houses applying for a MITI export licence will berequired to show such a certificate, but those without it willnot automatically be denied licences, he said.    But some industry officials predicted any governmentmeasures were likely to have limited effect as long as theworld semiconductor market remained weak.    U.S. Government and industry officials have complainedrepeatedly that Japanese chipmakers continue to sell at belowcost to third countries despite the July agreement.    Japanese firms and officials in turn argue the flow ofcheap chips to third countries is due to grey-market sales bythird-party brokers, who seek to profit from the gap betweenlow prices in Japan and higher prices based on production costsand set for Japanese makers under the agreement.    The MITI spokesman said, "If the percentage of grey marketis increasing for one specific company, it suggests they aredistributing their products through their sales network knowingthey will be exported by some means. In that case we will askthem what they are doing to reduce the figure."    MITI earlier asked makers to cut output of certain chips by10 pct in first-quarter 1987, spokesmen for the firms said.    But they doubt the usefulness of the latest move. "As longas there is a gap between prices set under the pact and marketprices, there will be people who want to exploit the gap tomake money," a Hitachi Ltd <HIT.T> spokesman said. REUTER
SWISS CAPITAL EXPORTS RISE IN JANUARY Swiss capital exports rose to 4.64billion francs in January after 2.54 billion in December and ayear earlier 3.64 billion, the Swiss National Bank said.    New bond issues accounted for 4.12 billion of the totalafter December's 2.15 billion, and credits 525.1 mln after389.9 mln.    In January 1985, before the National Bank ended thedistinction between notes and bonds, bond issues totalled 1.66billion francs, notes 1.39 billion and credits 597.5 mln. REUTER
CHINA CALLS FOR BETTER TRADE DEAL WITH U.S. China called on the United States toremove curbs on its exports, to give it favourable tradingstatus and ease restrictions on exports of high technology.    But the U.S. Embassy replied that Chinese figures showing13 years of trade deficits with the U.S. Out of the last 15 areinaccurate and said Peking itself would have to persuadeCongress to change laws which limit its exports.     The official International Business newspaper todaypublished China's demands in a  editorial to coincide with thevisit of U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz.     "It is extremely important that the U.S. Market reduce itsrestrictions on Chinese imports, provide the needed facilitiesfor them and businessmen from both sides help to expand Chineseexports," the editorial said.     "The U.S. Should quickly discard its prejudice againstfavourable tariff treatment for Chinese goods and admit Chinainto the Generalised System of Preference (GSP).     "Despite easing of curbs on U.S. Technology exports inrecent years, control of them is still extremely strict andinfluences normal trade between the two countries," it added     The paper also printed an article by China's commercialcounsellor in its Washington embassy, Chen Shibiao, who saidthat "all kinds of difficulties and restrictions" were preventingbilateral trade fulfilling its full potential.     He named them as U.S. Protectionist behaviour, curbs ontechnology transfer and out-of-date trade legislation.     The paper also printed a table showing that, sincebilateral trade began in 1972, China has had a deficit everyyear except 1972 and 1977. It shows the 1986 and 1985 deficitsat 2.09 billion and 1.722 billion dlrs.     A U.S. Embassy official said the U.S. Did not acceptPeking's trade figures at all, mainly because they excludegoods shipped to Hong Kong and then trans-shipped to U.S. WhileU.S. Figures are based on country of origin.     He said that, if China wants to obtain GSP status, it willhave to lobby Congress itself to persaude it to amend severallaws which currently prevent Peking getting such status.     The U.S. Trade Act of 1974 says that to qualify for GSP,China must be a member of the General Agreement of Tariffs andTrade (GATT), for which it applied in July 1986, and "not bedominated or controlled by international Communism."     The official said China was well aware of the laws, someof which date to the anti-Communist early 1950's, but thatthere is not sufficient political will in the U.S. To changethem.     China has been the subject of about a dozen casesinvolving anti-dumping in the U.S. Within the last two years,which the U.S. Side won, he said.     But, for the first time, China signed last week anagreement which it itself initiated to voluntarily restrainexports of at least two categories of steel goods, which maylead the U.S. Side to withdraw the anti-dumping case, he added.     Another diplomat said willingness to provide suchvoluntary export restraints would be an important issue inbilateral trade issues and in Peking's application to GATT.     "China has the potential to disrupt world markets,especially in textiles. Other GATT countries will be nervousabout China in this respect. But there is a precedent for othercentralled planned economies in GATT," the diplomat said.     Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Romania are members ofGATT but none has China's massive market potential for importsor its vast labour pool to produce cheap exports.     In a speech today in the northeast city of Dalian, U.S.Secretary of State George Shultz said his country welcomedChina's interest in participating in GATT.     "The process of Chinese accession will not be accomplishedovernight -- the GATT rules were not designed for a largeeconomy of the Chinese type," Shultz said.     "China can play an important role by actively joining GATTdiscussions seeking to expand general trading opportunities andenhance market access for exports worldwide. China can furtherdevelop its foreign trade system so as to gain the maximumbenefit from its GATT participation," he said.     The problems facing U.S.-China trade and GATT membershipare similar -- a pricing system which many foreign businessmenregard as arbitrary and not related to actual costs, especiallyfor exports, and a de facto dual currency system.     In a memorandum backing its application presented to GATTlast month, China said it was gradually reforming its economicsystem and replacing mandatory instruction with "guidanceplanning" and economic levers.     The diplomat said that, to join GATT, China had much todo. REUTER
U.S. ASKS JAPAN END AGRICULTURE IMPORT CONTROLS The U.S. Wants Japan to eliminate importcontrols on agricultural products within three years, visitingU.S. Under-Secretary of State for Economic Affairs Allen Wallistold Eishiro Saito, Chairman of the Federation of EconomicOrganisations (Keidanren), a spokesman for Keidanren said.    The spokesman quoted Wallis as saying drastic measureswould be needed to stave off protectionist legislation byCongress.    Wallis, who is attending a sub-cabinet-level bilateraltrade meeting, made the remark yesterday in talks with Saito.    Wallis was quoted as saying the Reagan Administration wantsJapanese cooperation so the White House can ensure any U.S.Trade bill is a moderate one, rather than containingretaliatory measures or antagonising any particular country.    He was also quoted as saying the U.S. Would be pleased wereJapan to halve restrictions on agricultural imports within fiveyears if the country cannot cope with abolition within three,the spokesman said.    Japan currently restricts imports of 22 agriculturalproducts. A ban on rice imports triggered recent U.S.Complaints about Japan's agricultural policy. Reuter
CHINA CALLS FOR BETTER TRADE DEAL WITH U.S. China called on the United States toremove curbs on its exports, to give it favourable tradingstatus and ease restrictions on exports of high technology.    But the U.S. Embassy replied that Chinese figures showing13 years of trade deficits with the U.S. Out of the last 15 areinaccurate and said Peking itself would have to persuadeCongress to change laws which limit its exports.    The official International Business newspaper todaypublished China's demands in a  editorial to coincide with thevisit of U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz.    "It is extremely important that the U.S. Market reduce itsrestrictions on Chinese imports, provide the needed facilitiesfor them and businessmen from both sides help to expand Chineseexports," the editorial said.    "The U.S. Should quickly discard its prejudice againstfavourable tariff treatment for Chinese goods and admit Chinainto the Generalised System of Preference (GSP).    "Despite easing of curbs on U.S. Technology exports inrecent years, control of them is still extremely strict andinfluences normal trade between the two countries," it added.    The paper also printed an article by China's commercialcounsellor in its Washington embassy, Chen Shibiao, who saidthat "all kinds of difficulties and restrictions" were preventingbilateral trade fulfilling its full potential.    He named them as U.S. Protectionist behaviour, curbs ontechnology transfer and out-of-date trade legislation. Reuter
BELGIAN SAYS EC WOULD REACT TO TEXTILE BILL Belgian Foreign Trade Minister HermanDe Croo said if Congress passed legislation curbing worldtextile imports the only way the European Community (EC) couldreact was to retaliate.    De Croo said at a news conference "if you limit textileimports, you will re-orient textiles to Europe."    And that he said would trigger EC taxes on U.S. goods.    Congress passed a textile bill two years ago, but it wasvetoed by President Reagan on grounds that curbing imports toprotect the domestic textile industry would trigger retaliationU.S. trading partners.    A similar bill has been introducted this year, in aCongress with a bigger Democratic majority and with a Presidentweakened by the Iran scandal.    De Croo, here for talks with Administration officials andCongressmen, said if a textile bill passed, "the only way wecould react would be retaliation, and it would cause moreretaliation, which is not a good way to deal with problems."    He said if a textile bill was enacted, "we will impose taxeson a lot of American products."  He said "it would be stupid. Wehave to avoid that."    He said Congressmen seem upset mosty with Japan, because ofits massive trade suprlus with the United States, and not withEC nations, but EC nations will be hurt by the diverted shipments of Asian textiles.    De Croo also criticized the way U.S. officials try to solveEC trade issues, saying "each time we come in contact, it aconflict contact. The clouts are coming fom the West."    He said it then is a crisis atmosphere with officials crossthe Atlantic and dramatized with headlines.    "This is not the way to work in a serious way between twobig powers," De Croo said.    reuter
ROSTENKOWSKI SAYS HE WILL OPPOSE PROTECTIONIST TRADE BILL IN U. Oper shr loss four cts vs loss 33 cts    Oper net loss 154,000 vs loss 1,301,000    Sales 30.0 mln vs 27.0 mln    Year    Oper shr profit 60 cts vs loss 16 cts    Oper net profit 2,364,000 vs loss 608,000    Sales 113.5 mln vs 132.8 mln    NOTE: Net excludes extraordinary charges from provision forroofing products warranties and costs from sale ofprinting/laminate division of 320,000 dlrs vs 10.3 mln dlrs inquarter and 4,3200,000 dlrs vs 12.7 mln dlrs in year.    Net excludes tax credits of 62,000 dlrs vs 41,000 dlrs inquarter and 127,000 dlrs vs 88,000 dlrs in year. Reuter
ROSTENKOWSKI OPPOSES PROTECTIONIST TRADE BILL House Ways and Means CommitteeChairman Dan Rostenkowski said Congress must avoid a temptationto pass a protectionist trade bill this year.    In remarks prepared for delivery before the National PressClub, Rostenkowski, D-Ill., predicted major trade legislationwill be sent to President Reagan by the end of this year.    But he warned that his "conciliatory message" on the tradebill did not mean he would oppose a proposal that would warnother countries their access to the American market would becurtailed unless they opened their markets to U.S. goods.    "Complaints about (foreign trade) restraints are not asmoke screen for protectionism, they a plea for fairness,"Rostenkowski said.    "It is only reasonable to ask the nations that have deniedus access to open up in return for continued freedom in theAmerican market," he added.    However, he said there would likely be changes in themarket access proposal from the plan which cleared the Houselast year. That plan would have set a specific time table forforeign countries to ease import restraints or they would facea 25 pct cut in exports to the United States. Reuter
U.K. EXPORTS BODY GETS NEW EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Export Credits Guarantee Department hasnamed Malcolm Stephens, director of export finance at Barclay'sBank Plc and a former career civil servant at ECGD for 17years, to the post of executive director, a departmentspokesman said.    Stephens replaces Jack Gill, who is retiring early aged 57.    A drop in the ECGD's business volume and a rise in its debtto the Exchequer have led to criticism in Parliament in recentyears.    Stephens said the fall in business volume was a topconvern, adding that the department may have to compete moreaggressively with private insurance firms providing similarservices.    The department's annual report for the year ended March 31,1986, showed exports insured by the department fell to 15.7billion stg from 17.4 billion the year before, while its debtto the Exchequer almost doubled to 756 mln stg.    Stephens said he had no specific list of changes. But amonghis chief concerns was the weakened condition of lesserdeveloped countries and their ability to pay for their imports.    The agency will have to review its policies on insuringexport credits to lesser credits on a country by country basis,he said. "Large lump political risk insurance is the sort ofthing we want to take a look at."    "You have to try to look forward to see if you are simply ina peak and trough situation or it is a more long term thing,"Stephens said, in response to a qustion about whether ECGD willstrike more countries from its list of political risk insurancerecipients.    He noted that certain countries have already been removedfrom the list. REUTER
ROSTENKOWSKI RELUCTANT TO BACK TAX HIKE House Ways and Means CommitteeChairman Dan Rostenkowski said he would be reluctant to backthe tax increase if it did not have President Reagan's support.    He told a National Press Club luncheon there would be anumber of tax proposals that could be debated if Reagan soughta tax increase to help balance the budget.    However, he said he would prefer to leave the tax ratesenacted in last year's tax reform bill unchanged.    There have been calls in Congress to hold the rates at the1987 level rather than allow them to fall next year.    Reagan proposed 22 billion dlrs in revenue as part of his1988 budget proposal, but it did not include general taxincreases.    On trade issues, Rostenkowski said he did not expect themajor trade bill this year would single out any U.S. industryfor special protection.    "To go after individual items in a trade bill is suicide,"he said.    This apparently ruled out congressional approval of anothertextile trade bill to limit quotas on textile imports, as wasproposed again this year. Reuter
U.S. SENATE PANEL COULD CONSIDER TRADE MEASURE The U.S. Senate Agriculture Committeemay take up a bill tomorrow that would strengthen theactivities of U.S. agricultural trade teams in selecteddeveloping countries, committee staff said.    The measure, sponsored by committee Chairman Patrick Leahy(D-Vt.) and Sen. John Melcher (D-Mont.), would establish tradeteams of between six and nine persons drawn from federalagencies and private voluntary organizations, staff said.    The trade missions would seek to generate interest in theU.S. government's food donation and commercial programs --PL480, Section 416, export credit and export enhancement -- andupon return be required to advocate extension of concessionalor commercial benefits to interested countries.    The trade teams would be made up of representatives of theU.S. Agriculture Department, State Department, the Agency forInternational Development and private voluntary organizationssuch as U.S. Wheat Associates.    The bill would require teams within six months to visitseven countries: Mexico, Philippines, Indonesia, India,Bangladesh, Senegal and Nigeria.    Within one year after passage of the measure, another eightcountries would have to be visited: Peru, Kenya, the DominicanRepublic, Costa Rica, Malaysia, Venezuela, Tunisia and Morocco.Other countries could be added to the list.    Senate staff members said the bill, still in the draftingstages, had broad support and was expected to be approved bythe committee tomorrow. Reuter
SPAIN TO LAUNCH EXPORT DRIVE Spain unveils a 105 billion peseta planthis month aimed at boosting exports to reach EuropeanCommunity levels, director-general of the INFE exportinstitute, Apolonio Ruiz Ligero, said.    "The target is to raise exports to 20 pct of Gross DomesticProduct over the next four years compared to 15 pct now," hesaid.     "This is the minimum prevailing level in the EC and thereis no reason why we should lag behind countries like Italy,which have a similar productive structure," he said.    The plan calls for providing soft loans, tax cuts and otherfiscal benefits to exporters and raising Spain's presence ininternational trade fairs.    Consumer goods such as fashion and wine, as well astraditional industrial exports will be promoted.    Ruiz Ligero said INFE would double its annual budget to 20billion pesetas to finance the four-year plan, while thegovernment's development aid fund (FAD) would provide a special25 billion peseta grant.    The plan calls for boosting exports by five to six pct inreal terms this year after a 7.4 pct decline last year.    Ruiz Ligero attributed this drop to a lack of demand indeveloping countries and a rally in domestic consumer demand,which rose six pct last year after 1.9 pct in 1985.    He added that 80 pct of Spain's exports went toOrganisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)countries.    The EC accounts for 60 pct of the market and exports to theCommunity rose seven pct last year. The government plans toconcentrate efforts on Western Europe and the U.S.    "The problem is convincing businessmen that exports arevital to survival in the context of EC competition," he said.    He said Spanish businessmen traditionally turned to thedomestic market to satisfy rises in consumer demand, whileturning their backs on foreign markets.    "They have to realise their share of the home market isgoing to shrink with growing deregulation," he said. "Foreigncompanies are taking up positions in the domestic economy andit is it vital to secure a market share abroad." REUTER
BALDRIGE CONCERNED ABOUT KOREAN/TAIWAN DEFICITS Secretary of Commerce MalcolmBaldrige expressed concern about the continuing U.S. tradedeficits with South Korea and Taiwan and said that without anadjustment in exchange rates there is little likelihood ofimprovement.    Speaking to the President's Export Council, an industryadvisory group, Baldrige said the trade deficit issue was underdiscussion with those countries.    "I feel that unless we see an exchange rate adjustment weprobably won't be able to see much of a change in the largesurplus that Taiwan in particular has with us," he said.    In a wide-ranging discussion on U.S. trade matters,Baldrige also repeated U.S. concern about an attempted takeoverby Japan's Fujitsu company of Fairchild Computer.    He said that the Japanese were resisting allowing U.S.companies into the giant computer business while at the sametime attempting to acquire control of a U.S. company that doesmajor computer business in the U.S. market.    Lastly, Baldrige said that the United States was hopefulthat it could complete a free market agreement with Canada bythe autumn, but said major issues, including acid rain,remained unresolved. Reuter
EC APPOINTS NEW TRADE CHIEF The European Community Commission todayappointed its chief spokesman, Hugo Paemen, as its top officialin charge of multilateral trade negotiations, a Commissionspokesman said.    Paemen, a Belgian official who had previously been chiefaide to former External Affairs Commissioner Etienne Davignon,has been in his post since January 1985.    The spokesman said Paemen will continue as chief spokesmanuntil the retirement on May 1 of Paul Luyten, who is now incharge of EC departments handling negotiations in the worldtrade body GATT, the OECD and other forums. Reuter
TURKEY SEES 1.5 BILLION DLR DEFICIT IN 1986 Turkey expects a 1986 balance of paymentsdeficit of 1.5 billion dlrs, well over target, but is takingsteps to improve its performance in this and other fields, AliTigrel, director of economic planning at the State PlanningOrganisation said.    He told Reuters the shortfall was a direct consequence ofeconomic growth of nearly eight pct, up from 5.1 pct in 1985,which he said resulted mostly from a surge in domestic demand.    Tigrel acknowledged a need to cut inflation further after adrop of more than 12 points to 24.6 pct in the Treasurywholesale index last year.    This year's target of 20 pct "might be attainable but theeconomic management will have to be careful," he said.    Tigrel, whose department produces the annual programmewhich is central to the government's economic planning, saidTurkey's creditworthiness was at risk over the current accountshortfall, originally targeted at 695 mln dlrs.    "We must alleviate the current account substantially tosustain the creditworthiness that we have managed to secureover the last five years," he added.    His comment echoed last October's Organisation for EconomicCooperation and Development report on Turkey, which saidAnkara's case for more medium-term financing on better termswould look better if inflation were lower and the currentaccount deficit cut or turned into a surplus.    "In 1987 we must reduce the rate of growth in public sectorinvestments, we must reduce the public sector deficit as apercentage of GNP and we must achieve a very visibleimprovement in the current account deficit," he said.    Tigrel said a surge in public sector spending last year wasalso to blame for the high deficits.    Appropriations to government departments had been cut byeight pct since the budget was passed in December and foreignborrowing by municipalities had been restrained.    "We are trying make sure that public bodies stick to theinvestment programme and do not exceed their appropriations," hesaid. It was hoped to bring the public sector borrowingrequirement down to five pct of GNP in 1987 from an estimated5.6 pct in 1986.    More modest GNP growth of five pct for 1987 was alsotargeted, Tigrel said. Measures were being taken to encourageexports, and production incentives were being considered.    "We must try to make sure that more capacity is injectedinto the Turkish economy in the coming years. The promotionpolicy is geared to make sure that both foreign investment andlocal private capital come more into play as far asmanufacturing capacity is concerned," Tigrel said.    He said the process of structural adjustment of the Turkisheconomy to free market policies, begun in 1980, was still underway. Trade had been liberalised and a freer exchange ratepolicy applied, but he acknowledged there was more to be donein a country where the state still dominates industry and thecurrency is only partially convertible. REUTER
S. KOREAN TRADE SURPLUS WITH U.S. SEEN FALLING South Korea's record 7.1 billion dlrstrade surplus with the U.S. is bound to diminish as thecountry switches purchases from Japan in favor of U.S.companies, Trade Minister Woong-Bae Rha said.     He rejected suggestions the Korean Won is undervalued, anddenied any plans for a "drastic and sudden" revaluation.    Rha is heading a trade mission to 37 U.S. cities. Last yearSouth Korea ran a 4.3 billion dlr trade surplus, including arecord 7.1 billion surplus with the U.S. and a 5.5 billion dlrdeficit with Japan.    Rha told Reuters in an interview the current trade missionis looking for 2.0 billion dlrs in purchases from U.S.companies, about a quarter of which represents "transferredpurchases from Japanese sources."    Rha said the items being sought by the current mission are"mainly chemicals, machinery and parts."    He said South Korea is the fourth largest importer of U.S.agricultural products. The current mission is not involved inthat area but there are plans to buy "substantial amounts ofcotton" from the U.S.    He noted his country "is clearly not as open as the Americanmarket. Nor is it reasonable to expect that it should be,"considering South Korea has a 40 billion dlr foreign debt andspends six pct of its gross national product on defense. Reuter
GATT COUNCIL DEFERS DECISION ON SEMICONDUCTORS The ruling GATT Council deferred adecision on whether to set up a dispute panel on the basis of aEuropean Community complaint against the U.S.- Japaneseagreement on exports of computer semiconductors.    David Woods, spokesman of the General Agreement on Tariffsand Trade (GATT), told a news briefing that the main partieswould continue bilateral talks. This was in the hope ofresolving the row before the next Council meeting on April 15.    The five-year accord signed in July 1986 aims to protectthe U.S. Market from dumping of low-price Japanese microchips,officially known as semiconductors.    The E.C. Complained the accord breached GATT trade rules byallowing Tokyo to monitor prices, allowing it to set minimumprices for Japanese chips sold in third countries.    The 12-nation Community also charged the agreement gaveU.S. Producers preferential access to the Japanese market.    Woods said many nations -- Hong Kong, Canada, Switzerland,Singapore, Sweden, Malaysia and Nigeria -- had supported the ECcomplaint during the heated Council debate.    Japan's delegate, Minoru Endo, and U.S. Ambassador MichaelSamuels replied in the debate that the E.C. Charges wereunfounded, but they were willing to continue bilateral talks. Reuter
GATT SETS UP DISPUTE PANEL ON CANADIAN HERRING The ruling GATT Council set up a formaldispute panel to examine a U.S. Complaint that a Canadian lawprohibiting export of unprocessed herring and salmon wasdiscriminatory.    David Wood, official spokesman of the General Agreement onTariffs and Trade (GATT), told a news briefing the decision wastaken after bilateral consultations failed to resolve the row.    U.S. Ambassador Michael Samuels charged during the Councildebate that Canada was trying to preserve domestic jobs byinsisting that herring and salmon be processed at home.    Robert White, Canada's deputy chief of delegation, repliedthe law was in line with GATT rules, and was for conservationsreasons. But he agreed to setting up the dispute panel. Reuter
MORE PRESSURE URGED FOR ASIA TO TAKE U.S. BEEF Congressmen from beef producingstates and representatives of the U.S. livestock industry urged the Reagan administration to press Japan and South Koreato open up their markets to imports of beef.    Testifying at a House subcommittee hearing on livestockissues, Rep. Hal Daub (R-Nebr.), said the administration shouldpush hard for greater beef imports by Japan and South Korea.Daub was joined by several other lawmakers.    U.S. assistant trade representative Suzanne Earley, replied"we're not going to let Japan off the hook, or Korea." Shenoted trade representative Clayton Yeutter met with a seniorKorean official last week on the beef issue, and that Yeutterand Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng will visit Tokyo inApril for discussions on farm trade issues.    Japan maintains a quota on beef imports, set at 58,400tonnes high quality beef in fiscal 1987. South Korea has bannedbeef imports but there are indications Seoul may bow to U.S.pressure and allow some imports soon, industry officials said.    In testimony today, Tom Cook, director of industry affairsfor the National Cattlemens Association said "the Congress,administration and the industry must take a strong, tough andunited stand to impress the Japanese that we mean business andthat we expect them to open their markets." Reuter
BRITISH AIDE CRITICIZES U.S.PROTECTIONISM A senior British official said thatprotectionist bills being considered by Congress could triggerretaliation by the European Community (EEC) and threaten theglobal trading system.    Paul Channon, secretary for trade and industry, said ifCongress passed legislation to curb textile imports, whichwould hit EC shipments as well as shipments from major Asiantextile producers, "the community would have to retaliate."    His comments echoed those made yesterday by Belgian TradeMinister Herman De Croo, who said if the bill passed, thecommunity would retaliate by imposing taxes on U.S. exports.    Channon made his remarks at a news conference after twodays of talks with Reagan Administration officials and membersof Congress.    De Croo was also in Washington for trade talks.    Channon said there was a greater protectionism sentiment inCongress since his visit here last year as Congress and theAdministration tried to find ways to reduce the U.S. tradedeficit, which last year hit a record 169.8 billion dlrs.    Channon also called for greater EC-U.S. cooperation toforce Japan to open its markets to foreign goods.    Channon said Japan's trade surplus is causing everyoneproblems - its surplus with the United States last year was51.5 billion dlrs and with EC nations, 16.7 billion dlrs.    "The more united pressure there could be, the better," hesaid.    Channon also called for increased U.S.-EC cooperation toavoid trade disputes.    He said the two sides narrowly avoided a confrontationearlier this year over lost grains sales when Spain andPortugal joined the community and its liberal importsregulations were tightened to conform to EC standards.    "But if both sides drew back from the brink that time," hesaid, ""it does not mean that they would do so on anotheroccasion."    Channon added that "There is increasing reesentment inEurope over the U.S. tactic of negotiating under the pressureof unilaterally imposed deadlines."    He said other potential conflicts are already in sight -alleged European government subsidies of Airbus aircraft andtaxes on fats and oils - and "the commuity and the United Statesmust therefore learn to manage their relations better."    He said another bill to let the United States retaliateagainst a nation if that nation's market was not open to U.S.goods would bypass the trade pact GATT (General Agreeeement onTariffs and Trade) as an arbiter of trade practices.    He said foreign trade law should be judged by GATT and notby the United States, adding "if the (trade) law is to beinterpreted by the United States and not by the GATT, what isto happen to the rest of us?"    reuter
YEUTTER SEEKS STRONGER TAIWAN, S.KOREA CURRENCIES U.S. Trade Representative ClaytonYeutter said he hoped the U.S. dollar would continue to declinein relation to the currencies of Taiwan and South Korea as away to improve the U.S. trade picture.    Testifying before the House Appropriations subcommitteewhich must approve his agency's 1988 budget, he said, "In myjudgment economic factors justify a continued decline."    Asked by a committee member if he expected a furtherdecline, and how much, Yeutter said the Taiwan and South Koreancurrencies should be adjusted to reflect "positive factors" intheir economies. Reuter
YEUTTER PLANS TRADE TRIP TO CHINA THIS SUMMER U.S. Trade Representative ClaytonYeutter said he plans a July trip to China to discuss tradeissues including China's admission to the General Agreements onTariffs and Trade.    Yeutter told a congressional hearing it was possible Chinacould be a member of GATT before the end of the year.    "They are making major moves to becoming a full scale memberof the world economy," he told the House Appropriationssubcommittee which oversees his agency's budget.    Depending on how the negotiations go on the terms ofChina's GATT membership, Yeutter said he could put the finaltouches on the U.S. part of the agreement during his trip.    The admission of China to GATT, which is the multinationalgroup of nations which negotiates international rules on trade,would offer both potential export markets and potentialcompetition for U.S. industries, he said.    "That has a lot of potential as well as risks for U.S.business," Yeutter said.    "I think China will develop into a fine market for us," headded. Reuter
YEUTTER CONCERNED ABOUT U.S. EXPORT PICTURE U.S. Trade Representative ClaytonYeutter said he expects imports to fall soon but he wasconcerned about the lack of improvement in U.S. exports giventhe dollar's decline in the last 18 months.    "I'm convinced we're about to see an improvement on theimport side. I'm more concerned about the export side," he tolda House Appropriations subcommittee.    Part of the blame goes on other countries which have notgenerated the economic growth to increase demand for U.S. goodsand part to some U.S. companies which are not generatingcompetitive exports, he said. Reuter
HOUSE TRADE BILL DRAFTING POSTPONED The House Ways and Means tradesubcommittee postponed until next week its opening session tostart drafting major changes to U.S. trade laws, a committeeaide said.    The subcommittee had not yet completed the preparatory workto start writing the legislation, the aide said. Reuter
N.Z. CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT NARROWS IN JANUARY New Zealand's current account deficitnarrowed to 180 mln N.Z. Dlrs in January from 203 mln, revisedfrom 207 mln, in December and 305 mln in January 1986, in asmoothed measurement, the Statistics Department said.    Unsmoothed figures show a deficit of 162 mln dlrs forJanuary against 107 mln, revised from 75 mln for December 1986and 575 mln in January 1986.    The smoothed series -- adjusted to iron out randomfluctuations -- shows a widening surplus on merchandise tradeto 46 mln from a surplus of 33 mln, revised from 43 mln dlrs inDecember and a 71 mln deficit in the a year ago period.    Exports were 905 mln dlrs against 929 mln, revised from 971mln in December and 816 mln a year earlier, while imports fellto 858 mln from 895 mln, revised from 928 mln in December and888 mln in January 1986.    Unadjusted merchandise figures show a surplus of 53 mlndlrs vs 141 mln, revised from 203 mln surplus in December 1986and a 323 mln deficit a year earlier.    The deficit on invisibles on unsmoothed figures eased to215 mln dlrs from 248 mln, revised from 277 mln in December and252 mln in January 1986.    The smoothed deficit on invisibles fell to 226 mln from 237mln, revised from 250 mln in December and 234 mln in the yearago period. REUTER
BELGOLUX TRADE MOVES INTO SURPLUS IN 1986 The Belgo-Luxembourg Economic Union(BLEU) moved into a narrow trade surplus of 4.7 billion francsin 1986 after a 140.4 billion franc deficit in 1985, figuresgiven by a spokesman for the National Statistics Instituteshow.    He said imports fell last year to 3,061.8 billion francsfrom 3,304.1 in 1985 while exports were also lower at 3,066.6billion francs against 3,163.7 billion.    In December, the BLEU had an 11.9 billion franc tradesurplus after a 10.9 billion franc surplus in November and a2.3 billion franc surplus in December 1985. REUTER
U.S. TELLS JAPAN TO DO MORE TO CUT TRADE SURPLUS U.S. Undersecretary of State for EconomicAffairs Allen Wallis said he had urged Japan to do much more toreduce its large trade surplus with the United States.    "Our central message to Japan this week was that while wehave made progress in some areas, much needs to be done," hetold a press conference after three days of talks.    "What we need is a resolution of trade issues, we needvisible efforts to restructure the economy to encourage moreimports and we need greater domestic-led growth."    Forecasting sluggish economic growth in Japan this year,Wallis urged Tokyo to stimulate domestic demand to help reduceits trade surplus, which hit a record 83 billion dlrs in 1986.    He named several areas of particular concern to Washington-- computer microchips, supercomputers, Kansai airport,agricultural products and car telephones.    He warned that the U.S./Japan agreement governing trade insemiconductors was in jeopardy. Despite the pact, Japaneseproducers are still dumping microchips in foreign markets otherthan the United States while U.S. Penetration of the Japanesemarket has not increased, he said. REUTER
U.K. 4TH QTR TRADE DEFICIT 2.6 BILLION STG, CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT 760 MLN -  A strong earthquake measuring an estimated8.0 on the open-ended Richter scale hit northern Chile around0936, the Meteorological Agency here reported.    The agency said the information had been received fromHonolulu.    It gave no further details. REUTER
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - POLISH SANCTIONS Poland says U.S. Sanctions have cost itseconomy 15 billion dlrs and has made clear it wants Washingtonto take a lead in repairing the damage after lifting remainingrestrictions two weeks ago.    Polish officials are unable to provide a precise breakdownof the figure, saying it takes into account a number ofhypothetical losses. Some of them are "too sophisticated toconvert into financial terms," one banking source said.    But Western economic experts say the effect of sanctions isimpossible to calculate.    They say it is blurred by the poor performance of Poland'seconomy, and dismiss the 15 billion dlr figure as illusory.    "Sanctions have provided a very useful excuse for under-achieving. They did have a bad effect, yes, but they onlycontributed to largely internal, economic problems," one said.    The U.S. Imposed the measures and withdrew Most FavouredNation (MFN) trading status from Poland in 1982 in retaliationfor suppression of the Solidarity free trade union undermartial law. The estimated cost to the Polish economy wasoriginally devised several years ago by the Institute ofNational Economy, an offshoot of the central planningcommission.    According to one Western envoy, an expert on Polisheconomic affairs, it extrapolated 1979 information on growthtrends in trade with the United States, as well as increases incredits from Western commercial and government lenders.    But the calculations were based on a time when trade wasbooming and credits still flowed freely, he said, dismissingthe estimate as "a theoretical projection based on a high point,which has no real scientific evaluation."    A foreign trade ministry official said Polish exports tothe U.S. In the late 1970s averaged around 400 mln dlrsannually and had fallen by half since the sanctions wereimposed.    Imports have suffered, slumping from around 800 mln dlrs to200 mln, as credits ran out. Poland has a dwindling tradesurplus with the West. Last year it was one billion dlrsagainst a targeted 1.6 billion, official figures show.    Acknowledging that sanctions have lost Poland importantU.S. Markets -- including agricultural equipment, textiles,chemicals and some foodstuffs -- Western economists say creditsdried up for economic not political reasons.  "Poland isaccusing the West of letting economic relations deteriorate forpolitical reasons," said one expert. "It's an illusion based on amisunderstanding of Western economy."    "There's a limit to how much you can go on giving someonewho has no hope of repaying it," another said, adding thatPoland had benefited from a global phenomenon of easy creditsin the 1970s which were no longer today's reality.    Describing the 15 billion dlr assessment as "nebulous," onediplomat said it also included losses of hypothetical ordersand setbacks to Polish research through the curbing ofscientific links and exchanges.  Western officials say thelifting of sanctions and new MFN status will have little impacton Poland, which has a hard currency debt of 33.5 billion dlrsand lacks the means to modernise its industry.    "MFN doesn't really mean anything, only that Poland will notbe treated worse than other countries. It will be difficult toregain access to the U.S. Market because different forces arein play now," said one Western envoy.    He said Polish products were not competitive, and theirquality was too low. Trade wars and possible protectionistmeasures amongst the U.S., Japan and Europe would also hamperPoland's efforts to regain entry.    Deputy foreign trade minister Janusz Kaczurba recognisedthis fact recently.    Kaczurba told the official PAP news agency recently, "Makingup our lost position will take a long time and be uncommonlydifficult, and in certain cases impossible... In a period oftwo to three years it will be possible to increase the level ofexports by only about 100 mln dlrs."    While Poland is unlikely to seek compensation, it says ithas a "moral right" to assistance from the U.S. Which it saysimposed the sanctions illegally. But a Western economist said"The argument that U.S. Sanctions were a unilateral torpedoingof the Polish economy won't cut any ice. The Americans willjust reply that the Poles acted immorally in crushingSolidarity."    Nevertheless, Polish National Bank head Wladyslaw Baka, intalks in Washington last week with the International MonetaryFund (IMF) and World Bank, made it clear that Poland waslooking for a lead from the United States.    He was quoted by PAP as saying that Poland would meet itsfinancial obligations to the United States, "but not in a shorttime and not without a cooperative stand on the part of itsforeign economic partners."    He stressed that the U.S. "had a particular opportunity toplay a part in the cooperative policy of Poland's partnersinterested in the settlement of Polish debt."    Putting it more sharply, one senior banking official blamedWashington for obstructing talks with the World Bank, IMF andParis Club of Western creditor governments in recent years andsaid it should now play a more positive role.    "As a major superpower the United States can influenceinternational organisations," he said, citing recent meetingsaimed at stabilising currencies as an example of the extent towhich Western nations were prepared to cooperate. REUTER
U.K. FOURTH QUARTER TRADE DEFICIT 2.6 BILLION STG Britain had a visible trade deficit of2.6 billion stg in the fourth quarter of 1986 against a reviseddeficit of 2.9 billion in the third quarter, officialstatistics show.    Seasonally-adjusted figures issued by the CentralStatistical Office (CSO) show the current account was indeficit by 760 mln stg against an upwardly revised thirdquarter shortfall of 930 mln.    For 1986 as a whole, visible trade was in deficit by 8.3billion stg, sharply up from 1985's 2.2. Billion shortfall anda 4.4 billion deficit in 1984.    Preliminary figures for invisible transactions in thefourth quarter show a surplus 1.8 billion stg to give anestimated surplus for 1986 of 7.2 billion. The fourth quarterfigure was in line with CSO projections released on Friday.    The third quarter invisibles surplus was revised down to1.9 billion stg from 2.25 billion.    In 1985 the invisibles surplus was 5.1 billion stg.    The reduced deficit on visible trade in the fourth quarterwas due to an increase in the surplus on oil of 200 mln stg anda reduction in the non-oil trade deficit of 100 mln, the CSOsaid.    However, 1986's surplus on oil trade was 4.0 billion stglower than in 1985, while the deficit on non-oil tradeincreased by 2.1 billion.    The figures were broadly in line with market expectations.    The CSO stressed that figures for invisible transactions,particularly for the most recent quarters are liable tosubstantial revisions as later information becomes available. REUTER
FED'S JOHNSON STRESSES PRICE STABILITY Federal Reserve Board Vice ChairmanManuel Johnson said that maintaining price stability wascritical to achieving non-inflationary economic growth in theworld and said that progress was being made.    "It is worth reiterating that the Federal Reserve'spromotion of price stability is critical to the successfulimplementation of virtually all of the important ingredientsfor growth," he told the Eastern Economic Association.    Johnson said initial progress has been made on a variety offronts. "Federal Reserve monetary policy, theGramm-Rudman-Hollings legislation, the G-6 agreement, and theBaker debt initiative for example all have moved us in theright direction," he said. G-6 is comprised of U.S., Britain,France, Japan, West Germany and Canada.    On the budget deficit, Johnson said meeting precisenumerical goals was less important than a continuing commitmenttoward slowing the growth of federal spending.    There was evidence deficits as a pct of Gross NationalProduct were declining and would continue to drop, he said.    But Johnson warned against reliance on inflow of foreigncapital to finance investment and the budget deficit and keepinterest rates stable.    "This situation, however, cannot continue indefinitely.Sooner or later progress must be made in controlling excessivefederal spending," he said.    A disinflationary monetary policy should continue to be themain objective of the Fed, Johnson said.    He also said a more stable and sustainable alignment ofexchange rates was needed for long-term growth.    On the trade deficit, Johnson warned against "quick fix"solutions, which he identified as excessive dollar depreciationor protectionist trade legislation.    "What is important is that we attempt to maintain healthyreturns to capital and adopt policies encouraging genuineeconomic growth," he said.    Such an approach would finance the trade deficit but allowfor its gradual resolution over time. Reuter
YEUTTER SAYS U.S. BUDGET DEFICIT REDUCTION KEY TO TRADE DEFICIT  Shr 40 cts vs 25 cts    Net 1,369,602 vs 628,193    Revs 12.5 mln vs 4,909,369    Avg shrs 3,460,217 vs 2,610,913    Year    Shr 97 cts vs 54 cts    Net 2,952,830 vs 1,414,369    Revs 37.0 mln vs 13.5 mln    Avg shr 3,031,494 vs 2,609,313    Note: Prior qtr and year per share figures restated for 10pct stock dividend of December 1986. Reuter
YEUTTER SAYS BUDGET CUT KEY TO BETTER U.S. TRADE A reduction of the U.S. federal budgetdeficit will be needed to help eliminate the nation's hugetrade deficit, U.S. trade representative Clayton Yeutter said.    Speaking to the New York Chamber of Commerce and Industry,Yeutter said "Capital and trade flows are clearlyinter-releated now.    "Unless we get the budget deficit down, we will not get thetrade deficit down."    He did not elaborate on his views of the linkages betweenthe two deficits.    Private analysts have said that the financing of large U.S.budget deficits requires heavy capital inflows from overseasinvestors through purchases of U.S. Treasury and, to a lesserextent, other U.S. securities as well.    "We'll make some progress in reducing the 170 billion dlrtrade deficit in 1987, but there's still a long way to go,"Yeutter said.    He said the problem must be approached on many fronts andfocus most strongly on U.S. and overseas fiscal and monetarypolicies to foster economic growth, U.S. competitiveness andthe establishment of a "level playing field" for trade.    The U.S. trade representative said the Federal Reserveunder Chairman Paul Volcker has done its part to improve thetrade situation by getting interest rates down.    On the fiscal side, Yeutter said "the budget deficit isstill our biggest problem" and there has not been enoughprogress toward reducing that deficit.    In the international area, he said that "our major tradingpartners could still do more to stimulate domestic growth."Commenting on Japan, which is running around a 80 billion dlrtrade surplus with the United States, Yeutter said "Japan isjust not doing the job on the import side."    Yeutter declined to comment on statements relating to thedollar made earlier today by Commerce Dept undersecretary ofEconomic Affairs Robert Ortner.    In a Washington address to an Export-Import Bank sponsoredmeeting, Ortner said he believed the dollar at current levelswas fairly priced against most European currencies, but thatthe yen is 10 or 15 pct undervalued.    "The market will determine the dollar's proper value in theend," Yeutter said. However, he added that, if the U.S. andother nations do not take the necessary steps to cut the U.S.trade deficit, "the dollar will be the equalizer."    Yeutter said there is no quick fix to the trade problem andany resort to such tactics as protectionist trade legislationor trade restrictions poses real dangers.    He said "there's relatively little that Congress can do tolegislate a solution to the trade problem."    Protectionist legislation will only provoke retaliation byU.S. trading partners, Yeutter said.    "There is no doubt in my mind about the willingness of ourtrading partners to retaliate against unfair tradelegislation," Yeutter said, adding that policy flexibility isessential in solving international trade problems. Reuter
CONSENSUS BUILDS FOR WORLD AGRICULTURAL REFORM Top U.S. and European farm trade andgovernment representatives called for a sweeping reform ofworld agriculture to redress a critical demand and supplyimbalance.    Speakers at a conference on world agricultural markets heredemonstrated a growing U.S.-European consensus on the need foran urgent and collective overhaul of world farm trade andproduction.    "It is vital that we work together to bring more freedom andharmony into the world agricultural trade...(if not) thedisruptions in markets may grow even more severe, the walls ofprotection climb higher and the level of possible retaliationbecome more harmful," U.S. Department of Agriculture DeputyAdministrator William Bailey said.    Bailey said his attendance at the two-day meeting, whichends tomorrow, demonstrated the U.S. recognises the need toadjust its policies to the changing market environment.    The need for urgent reforms is justified by the "imbalanceand tensions of the world economy," the secretary general of theOrganisation for Economic Cooperation and DevelopmentJean-Claude Paye said.    And the forum for such a reform is the General Agreement onTariffs and Trade, he noted.    Paye stressed the need for a progressive and jointreduction of agricultural subsidies as well as social measuresto help farmers in unprofitable areas.    Another possible solution would be to stop supporting farmprices, allowing them to be fixed by supply and demand, andinstead help farmers through income support and adjustmentaids, proposed James Howard, Executive Vice-president ofCargill (USA), one of the world's largest cereal houses.    Franz-Josef Feiter, agricultural adviser to West GermanChancellor Helmut Kohl, agreed the European Community must takegreater heed of market constraints in fixing farm prices.    However, "differentiated policy treatment is required" totake account of large disparities in the situation around theEC, he said.    "Agriculture is an efficient sector of the European economyand will remain so if the right policy is pursued within theCommunity," he said. Reuter
FRANCE, YUGOSLAVIA COMMISSION TO BOOST TRADE France and Yugoslavia agreed to set up ajoint economic commission as part of efforts to promotecommercial links and industrial cooperation between the twocountries.    The French Finance Ministry said the commission, to becomposed of businessmen, was agreed during talks betweenForeign Trade Minister Michel Noir and Yugoslavian ministerwithout portfolio Egon Padovan.    A ministry statement said both sides had agreed on the needto boost trade links in keeping with an accord signed last yearcalling for a 50 pct rise in commercial exchanges between thetwo countries over the next six years.    French trade with Yugoslavia has grown little over the pasttwo years. Reuter
FAVORED TRADE STATUS FOR MOSCOW STILL OPPOSED The Reagan administration wants toencourage expanded trade with the Soviet Union but does notbelieve Moscow yet warrants most-favored-nation treatment,Deputy Secretary of State John Whitehead said.    "It seems to me that more trade between us is better thanless trade," he told a forum on U.S.-Soviet trade relations.    To that end, the administration in January allowed foreignpolicy controls on the export of oil and gas equipment to theSoviet Union to lapse, he said.    Also, Washington and its allies are reviewing remainingexport controls in hopes of simplifying the list of prohibiteditems and speeding up the licensing process, he said.    Whitehead said, however, the prefential treatment thatcomes with most-favored-nation status is out for the moment.    U.S. law prohibits most-favored-nation status for countriesthat restrict emigration and other rights.    "What we have seen so far (in improved rights under SovietLeader Mikhail Gorbachev) are promising trends," he said.    But, he added: "We don't know if they will continue, wedon't know how significant they will be." Reuter
BRAZIL DEBT SEEN PARTNER TO HARD SELL TACTICS Brazil's recent announcement of asuspension in interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of foreigndebt gave the banking system the jitters and confirmed viewsamong many international economists and commodities analyststhat Brazil will continue to flex its trading muscles in 1987.    The developing world's most indebted nation is also itsmost prolific exporter of agricultural commodities such ascoffee and soybeans, and might maximize foreign exchangerevenue by selling hard on world markets, economists said.    "That sounds like a reasonable strategy. But there is noway they can trade their way out of this situation," AldoRoldan, Vice President for International Services at ChaseEconometrics, said.    Roldan told Reuters that Brazil not only had to tackle theproblems of satisfying domestic demand and competing on gluttedworld markets, but also had to work to make its position onforeign exchange markets more profitable.    "Domestic costs have increased (due to inflation) andexporters have not had the same offsetting movement in exchangerates," Roldan said.    The Chase economist also said commodities markets weredepressed and generally did not appear very promising for acountry like Brazil, where pure commodities account for some 50pct of exports and in 1986 had a total value of around 23billion dlrs.    But he added: "They are always pretty aggressive and theyhave good foreign marketing channels."    Analysts said a key factor in Brazilian trade will becoffee, and even without background pressure from foreigncreditors the world's largest producer was expected to hit themarket this year with a vengeance.    Negotiations between International Coffee Organization(ICO) members to re-establish producer export quotas broke upearlier this week with major producers and consumers accusingeach other of intransigence.    "Brazil would not tolerate a change in ICO regulations,which others wanted changed," one senior coffee dealer said.    The dealer, who declined to be named, said Brazil wanted topreserve its market share. At the end of the talks, he saidBrazil hinted it could sell more than anyone else and otherswould suffer.    Brazil will be an aggressive seller under any scenario butas yet there is no sign of unusually heavy Brazilian sales, thedealer said.    "If they do come into the market at this level it will golower and you could breach a dollar, ninety or eighty cents,"he said.    New York coffee futures for May delivery settled 2.29 centslower Thursday at 104.68 cents a lb, while more distantdeliveries fell the six-cent maximum trading limit.    President of the Brazilian Coffee Institute, Jorio Daustertold a press conference in Rio de Janeiro today that Brazil hasno set target for its coffee exports following the breakdown ofthe ICO talks on export quotas.    Many economists and analysts believe soybeans could be thefocus of possible stepped-up Brazilian marketing efforts. "Theywill be more aggressive this year than they have ever been,"according to Richard Loewy, analyst for Prudential-BacheSecurities Inc.    Loewy believes the foreign debt problem, a good crop, plusdifficulties with storage would help motivate selling of theBrazil soybean crop. "Brazilian farmers also need cash flow andthey can't afford to store the crops," he said.    The Chicago soybean complex has been nervous for some timeabout large South American crops developing under near idealconditions towards record yields.    "We are going to see a very rapid decline, earlier thanusual, this year in our (U.S.) exports," Loewy said.    Tommy Eshleman, economist for the American SoybeanAssociation (ASA), said this year's Brazilian soybean harvestcould total 18 mln tonnes, versus 13.7 mln last year.    Marketings will be very aggressive this summer when pricesare usually high relative to the rest of the year due to thevulnerability of the U.S. crop to bad growing weather.    Another incentive to sell might be trade anticipation of areduction in the U.S. government soybean loan rate, offered tofarmers who give crops as collateral, Eshleman said.    He said there has been some uncertainty this year about thesoybean loan rate, which acts as an effective floor for pricesby keeping supplies away from the free market. Farmers canforfeit their beans to the government rather than repay theloan.    "We're getting into a period when they (Brazil) arestarting to harvest and starting to export," Eshleman said. Buthe added it will be a while before U.S. exports fall to below10 mln bushels a week from around 20 mln bushels currently.    Jose Melicias from the research department of DrexelBurnham Lambert said Brazil would be trying to export as muchas it can this year because of its economic situation.    He said the debt situation was a major consideration. "TheBrazilian government also does not have enough money to pay forstorage," he added.    Asked if a return to an inflationary environment in Brazilwould make farmers inclined to hold onto crops, Melicias saidit would not make a big difference.    On other commodity markets, Brazil's selling impact may bemuted no matter its need to generate capital.    Brazil is faced with a poor 1986/87 sugar harvest, whichcould limit exports to the world market, analysts said. Thecountry may have oversold and be unable to honor exportcommitments, and this plus higher domestic demand caused byconsumer price subsidies on ethanol and refined sugar, willgive it little room to stretch exports, they said.    Brazil's other major crop, cocoa, is in its third year ofsurplus. "Cocoa consumption is basically flat and last year itfell, so I don't think they can start throwing out cocoa andfind many more markets for it," one analyst said.    "If they come out as aggressive sellers, the market wouldcollapse and they can't afford to do that," she added. Reuter
ARGENTINA-BRAZIL TRADE JUMPED 90 PCT IN 1986 Trade between Argentina and Braziljumped 90 pct in 1986 versus 1985, Foreign Minister DanteCaputo said.    Speaking to reporters, Caputo said the near doubling intrade showed the "tangible and immediate results" of a wide-ranging economic integration accord signed by the presidents ofboth countries last July.    He said trade last year totalled 1.3 billion dlrs versus700 mln dlrs in 1985.    The accord provided for capital goods trade between the twocountries to rise to 2.0 billion dlrs over four years.    Argentine wheat exports to Brazil will increase from1,375,000 tonnes in 1987 to 2.0 mln tonnes in 1991, the accordsaid. Reuter
FEBRUARY U.S. JOBS GAINS SHOW STRONGER ECONOMY Momentum in th U.S. economy may bepicking up given solid across-the board increases in theFebruary U.S. employment report, economists said.    U.S. non-farm payroll employment rose 337,000 in February,twice what the financial markets expected. This follows a319,000 gain in January, revised down from a previouslyreported 448,000 increase.    "Even if you look at January and February together, this isstill a much stronger report than the consensus expectation inthe market," said Allan Leslie of Discount Corporation.    Economists stressed that gains in hours worked signal muchlarger gains in February U.S. production and income thanpreviously forecast.    The average work week rose 0.2 hours to 35.0 hours from34.8 hours in January. The average manufacturing work week rose0.3 hours to 41.2 hours, the longest factory work week sinceNovember 1966, the Commerce Department said.    "The gains in manufacturing employment point to a verylarge increase in industrial production of between 0.5 and 0.7pct," said Joe Carson of Chemical Bank. This compares to a 0.4pct  gain in January U.S. industrial production.    Peter Greenbaum of Smith Barney Harris Upham and Co Incnoted that the average wage rate increased to 8.87 dlrs an hourin February from 8.83 dlrs in January.    "Combined with the increase in hours worked, this meanswe'll get a pretty healthy gain in personal income vis-a-visthe wage and salary disbursement," he said.    Greenbaum said that February U.S. personal income shouldrise at least 0.5 pct after being flat in January.    He said the February employment gains are consistent withhis firm's first quarter U.S. real gross national productgrowth forecast of 3.7 pct.    Economists agreed that the employment data were negativefor the credit markets in that they signal a healthier economyand no easing in the Federal Reserve's monetary policy. Butmost said that the market need not fear tighter policy either.    "This report is another reason for the Fed to not considereasing," said Ray Stone of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Inc.    "It gives them more room to address the dollar situation," hesaid. "If they had to nudge policy tighter, they could do so,but it's most likely they'll sit and wait."    "The data have not been uniform," Stone added. "Durablegoods were weak in January and now employment is strong."    In January, U.S. durable goods orders dropped 7.5 pct,followed by a 4.0 pct drop in U.S. factory goods orders. U.S.retail sales fell 5.8 pct, and the U.S. merchandise trade gapwidened to 14.8 billion dlrs.    "Things just aren't adding up," said Steve Slifer of LehmanGoverment Securities Inc. "Consumer spending, capital spending,goverment spending, and net exports data show very weak firstquarter GNP growth of one pct," he said.    "The employment and production data point to a biginventory build-up, but that's what we thought in the fourthquarter and we only got 1.3 pct GNP growth."    Manufacturing employment gained 50,000 after falling 15,000in January. Economists estimated that 30,000 of the gain wasaccounted for by striking workers in the steel and machineryindustries returning to work.    Even so, some economists said that the manufacturing gainshave resulted from an improving trade outlook.    Jason Benderly of Goldman, Sachs and Co noted that the U.S.trade picture improved in the fourth quarter as net exportsgrew at a 20 pct annual rate while the rate of increase inimports fell to only six pct, and that it continues to improvein the first quarter.    "Not only the official statistics for the fourth quarter,but evidence of a pick up in orders from overseas for paperproducts, chemicals, high-tech goods, and capital goods showthat trade is improving," Benderley said.    "The economy is moving between extremes," he said. "Somereports are going to look bad and some good, but first quarterGNP is going to grow in the middle at about three pct."    A 287,000 gain in services employment comprised the greaterpart of February's employment gain. Retail services employmentrose 129,000 in February, compared to a gain of 117,000 inJanuary, previously reported at 166,000.    Construction employment rose a slim 2,000 in February. Butthis follows a robust 113,000 gain in January, revised downfrom a previously reported 142,000 gain.    The U.S. civilian unemployment rate was unchanged inFebruary at 6.7 pct. This means the jobless rate has stayed at6.7 pct for three consecutive months, the lowest reading sinceMarch 1980, the Commerce Department noted.    "The Federal Reserve has to be pleased with this report,"Carson said. "This takes away the Fed's flexibility to ease,but there's no reason to tighten. It's way too early for that."       Reuter
BAKER SAYS G-6 PACT JUST A START Treasury Secretary James Baker saidthe agreement among industrial nations in Paris last month isonly a start in Washington's drive to intensify economiccooperation among leading countries.    In a speech to the National Newspaper Association, Bakersaid "the six steps beginning with the Plaza Agreement andculminating in the Paris Accord, are only a start."    He added "we see our role as a steward of a process in whichwe sit down with our industrial allies to find ways to promotemore balanced international growth."    The Paris agreements called trade surplus countries tostrengthen their growth and on the U.S. to reduce its budgetdeficit. Under such circumstances, the countries agreed theircurrencies were within ranges broadly consistent with economicfundamentals.    Baker also said he still sees "ominous" signs of pressure forprotectionist trade legislation "and this pressure forprotectionism is coming from new areas of society."    But he also said he believed a coalition was forming thatsupported free trade. Reuter
BAKER SEES LOWER JAPANESE TRADE SURPLUS U.S. Treasury Secretary James Bakersaid the Japanese trade surplus would begin to decline thisyear.    He told the National Newspaper Association "You're going tosee a reduction in the Japanese trade surplus -- some of itthis year".    But he said the reduction would be due principally to theexchange rate shifts since the Plaza Agreement, and theseshifts would take a long time to work their way through thesystem. Reuter
NICARAGUA, ROMANIA, PARAGUAY LOSE TRADE RIGHTS President Reagan formally endedpreferential duty-free trade treatment for exports fromNicaragua, Romania and Paraguay under the Generalized System ofPreferences (GSP).    He took the action after determining that the threecountries are not taking steps to give their workersinternationally recognized rights.    U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter had announced theintended action on January 2. The United States conducts notrade with Nicaragua and very little trade with Romania andParaguay. Reuter
BANGLADESH TRADE DEFICIT NARROWS IN OCTOBER 1986 The Bangladesh trade deficit narrowed to1.91 billion Taka in October from 5.64 billion in September and2.43 billion in October 1985, the Central Bank said.    Imports dropped to 4.31 billion Taka in October from 8.22billion in September and 4.72 billion in October 1985.    Exports totalled 2.4 billion Taka in October, as against2.58 billion in September and 2.29 billion in October 1985. REUTER
OECD TRADE, GROWTH SEEN SLOWING IN 1987 The 24 nations of the Organisation forEconomic Cooperation and Development (OECD), hampered bysluggish industrial output and trade, face slower economicgrowth, and their joint balance of payments will swing intodeficit in 1987, the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU ) said.    The EIU said in its World Trade Forecast it revised OECDeconomic growth downwards to 2.5 pct this year, compared with a2.8 pct growth forecast in December.    It said the new areas of weakness are West Germany and thesmaller European countries it influences, and Japan, hardesthit by currency appreciation this year.    The independent research organisation cut its 1987 growthrate forecasts for West Germany to 2.2 pct from 3.2 pct inDecember and to 2.3 pct from three pct for Japan.    It said it expected the OECD to post a current accountdeficit of some 13 billion dlrs in both 1987 and 1988, due inlarge part to a 1.50 dlrs a barrel rise in 1987 oil prices.    It said the U.S. Current account deficit looked likely tofall even more slowly than forecast, to 125 billion dlrs in1987 and 115 billion in 1988 from 130 billion in 1986.    It said it expected West Germany to post a 31 billion dlrpayments surplus and Japan a 76 billion dlr surplus this year.    The EIU said it saw oil prices dropping to around 16.50dlrs a barrel by end-1987 and 15.50 dlrs in 1988 from about 18dlrs last year, as adherence to OPEC output policy becomesincreasingly ragged.    It said the dollar is poised to resume its decline inforeign exchange markets, and will lose a further 13 pct on itstrade-weighted index this year and five pct in 1988 after lastyear's 18.4 pct drop. The average mark/dollar rate is put at1.80 marks this year and 1.70 in 1988 while the yen/dollar rateis expected to break through the 150 yen barrier with anaverage value of 150 yen in 1987 and 146 yen in 1988, it said.    "This is not a crash scenario but the dollar's steeperangle of descent increases the risk of ending with a fireballrather than a three-point landing," the EIU said.    "Talking will not stop the dollar's slide for long and theFebruary meeting (of finance ministers of the Group of Five andCanada) produced scant promise of either a decisive shift tomore expansive policies in West Germany and Japan, or a tighterU.S. Fsical policy," it said.    It said the key to the dollar's fortunes was thewillingness of Japanese institutions to buy U.S. Governmentassets despite prospects of sustaining a currency loss.    "Thus far they have been willing," the EIC said, addingthat if Japan was deterred from buying U.S. bonds the dollarwould collapse.    To contain such a currency crisis, dollar interest rateswould have to soar, bringing recession and a Third World debtcrisis, it said.    On trade, the EIU said prospects for 1987 look"increasingly sick."    Import growth, forecast in December at 4.5 pct, is now seenslowing down to around 3.8 pct in 1987 with a recovery only to4.2 pct in 1988, it said.    The weakness of the West German economy is the biggestsingle factor, with import growth there expected to feature asluggish 3.5 pct growth in 1987 against the 6.5 pct forecast inDecember, the EIU said.    On the export side, it said it saw weak demand in WestGermany affecting export prospects elsewhere in Europe, whileJapan's exports in 1987 would remain flat and sales by U.S.Exporters would respond only marginally to a lower, morecompetitively-priced dollar.    It said in most of Europe and in Japan, raw materials andoil will cost less in domestic currency in 1987 than in 1986. Reuter
OECD TRADE, GROWTH SEEN SLOWING IN 1987 The 24 nations of the Organisation forEconomic Cooperation and Development (OECD), hampered bysluggish industrial output and trade, face slower economicgrowth, and their joint balance of payments will swing intodeficit in 1987, the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU ) said.    The EIU said in its World Trade Forecast it revised OECDeconomic growth downwards to 2.5 pct this year, compared with a2.8 pct growth forecast in December.    It said the new areas of weakness are West Germany and thesmaller European countries it influences, and Japan, hardesthit by currency appreciation this year.    The independent research organisation cut its 1987 growthrate forecasts for West Germany to 2.2 pct from 3.2 pct inDecember and to 2.3 pct from three pct for Japan.    It said it expected the OECD to post a current accountdeficit of some 13 billion dlrs in both 1987 and 1988, due inlarge part to a 1.50 dlrs a barrel rise in 1987 oil prices.    It said the U.S. Current account deficit looked likely tofall even more slowly than forecast, to 125 billion dlrs in1987 and 115 billion in 1988 from 130 billion in 1986.    It said it expected West Germany to post a 31 billion dlrpayments surplus and Japan a 76 billion dlr surplus this year.    The EIU said it saw oil prices dropping to around 16.50dlrs a barrel by end-1987 and 15.50 dlrs in 1988 from about 18dlrs last year, as adherence to OPEC output policy becomesincreasingly ragged.    It said the dollar is poised to resume its decline inforeign exchange markets, and will lose a further 13 pct on itstrade-weighted index this year and five pct in 1988 after lastyear's 18.4 pct drop.    The average mark/dollar rate is put at 1.80 marks this yearand 1.70 in 1988 while the yen/dollar rate is expected to breakthrough the 150 yen barrier with an average value of 150 yen in1987 and 146 yen in 1988, it said.    "This is not a crash scenario but the dollar's steeper angleof descent increases the risk of ending with a fireball ratherthan a three-point landing," the EIU said.    "Talking will not stop the dollar's slide for long and theFebruary meeting (of finance ministers of the Group of Five andCanada) produced scant promise of either a decisive shift tomore expansive policies in West Germany and Japan, or a tighterU.S. Fiscal policy," it said.    It said the key to the dollar's fortunes was thewillingness of Japanese institutions to buy U.S. Governmentassets despite prospects of sustaining a currency loss.    "Thus far they have been willing," the EIC said, adding thatif Japan was deterred from buying U.S. Bonds the dollar wouldcollapse.    To contain such a currency crisis, dollar interest rateswould have to soar, bringing recession and a Third World debtcrisis, it said.    On trade, the EIU said prospects for 1987 look "increasinglysick."    Import growth, forecast in December at 4.5 pct, is now seenslowing down to around 3.8 pct in 1987 with a recovery only to4.2 pct in 1988, it said.    The weakness of the West German economy is the biggestsingle factor, with import growth there expected to feature asluggish 3.5 pct growth in 1987 against the 6.5 pct forecast inDecember, the EIU said.    On the export side, it said it saw weak demand in WestGermany affecting export prospects elsewhere in Europe, whileJapan's exports in 1987 would remain flat and sales by U.S.Exporters would respond only marginally to a lower, morecompetitively-priced dollar.    It said in most of Europe and in Japan, raw materials andoil will cost less in domestic currency in 1987 than in 1986.    However, rates of inflation will edge up in 1988 to overthe current OECD average of three pct. Non-oil commodity priceswill show a modest dollar price increase in 1988 for the firsttime since 1984, the EIU said.    After a rise of 18 pct in 1986, the dollar price ofinternationally traded manufactures will go up by 8.5 pct in1987 and by five pct in 1988, it said.    It said OECD industrial production would rise by only 1.6pct in 1987 after a weak 1.5 pct increase in 1986. Reuter
STUDY SAYS U.S., CANADA PACT WOULD SPUR ECONOMIES A free trade pact between the UnitedStates and Canada could spur the economies of both sidessubstantially, according to a study released by the Institutefor International Economics.    The study, by Paul Wonnacott, said a successful conclusionto the free trade talks now under way could raise Canada'sgross national product by more than five pct and expand U.S.export's by about seven pct.    He said the pact could resolve the knotty issue ofgovernment subsidies, end curbs on trade in services andinvestments and pave the way for new global talks under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.    The United States and Canada - the world's two biggesttrading partners with cross border shipments of about 150billion dlrs a year - opened free trade talks last June. Theyare aiming for a pact by next October.    Wonnacott, an economics professor at the Univerity ofMaryland, said an agreement should include:    - Elimination of tariffs between the two countries, phasedin over a five to 10-year period;    - Equal access to federal government procurement in the twocountries, replacing current "Buy America" and "Buy Canada"provisions with a "Buy North America" provision;    - Fewer restrictions in trade in services, chiefly financeand transportation;    - A commitment not to screen foreign investments in favordomestic producers;    - A commission to resolve bilateral trade disputes.     Wonnacott said that to resolve the subsidy problem, thetwo sides should permit export subsidies of exports of up to2.0 or 2.5 pct without imposing coutervailing duties.    The limit on subsidies is now 0.5 pct.    He proposed that any attempt to impose new duties to offsetsubsidies should go first a special disputes commission forresolution at an early stage.    Wonnacott said "bilateral free trade would contribute to theefficiency of the North American economies and to theircompetitiveness in facing overseas producers.    He said it would it would open U.S. markets to Canadiangoods and enable them to benefit from the economies of massproduction.    Benefits to the United States would be fewer than those toCanada proportionately, he said, because of the already largeU.S. gross national product.    Wonnacott said also that a U.S.-Canada pact in such areasas export subsidies and the creation of a dispute commissioncould set an example for the current attempt by GATT to writenew and more liberal global trading regulations. Reuter
KOREANS TO BUY 1.8 BILLION DLRS IN U.S. GOODS South Korean Foreign Trade MinisterRah Woon Bae said his country's firms have agreed to buy 1.8billion dlrs worth of U.S. goods during his two-week buyingtrip to the United States.    Rah said most of the purchases represented shifts fromJapanese firms to U.S. firms as part of South Korea's effort toreduce its seven billion dlr trade surplus with the UnitedStates.    South Korea has a five billion dlr trade deficit withJapan. Reuter
USX <X> CHAIRMAN CALLS FOR LOWER DOLLAR USX Corp chairman David Roderick calledfor a lower value for the U.S. dollar against other currenciesto help speed a correction in the U.S. trade deficit, whichlast year reached 170 billion dlrs.    In remarks prepared for a speech before the Economic Clubof Detroit, Roderick said, "There should be total resolve thatthe dollar versus other major currencies, as well as thecurrencies of other nations having a substantial trade surpluswith us, must continue to decline so that the correction in ourtrade deficit starts on the road to recovery."    Roderick said the U.S. should be understanding of the"economic pain" our trading partners experience as a result ofa falling dollar.    But, he added, "As painful as the correction may be to ourtrading partners, it is less painful than leaving the problemuncorrected because that would lead us into an inevitable,lengthy and steep world recession."    Roderick said between February 1985 and December 1986 thedollar fell by more than 40 pct in real terms against majorindustrial currencies and by 30 to 35 pct against a broadergroup of currencies of nearly all developing nations.    At the end of 1986, he said, the value of foreign assets inthe U.S. exceeded the value of U.S. assets abroad by 240billion dlrs, compared to five years ago when the U.S. had asurplus in assets of 141 billion. A company spokesman said thedata were provided by economic consultants to USX.    The primary reason for the trade imbalance was the 70 pctrise of the dollar between 1980 and 1985, although otherfactors were involved, Roderick said. But it is wrong, he said,"to attribute the massive trade deficit to a fundmentaldeterioration of U.S. productivity or of American productquality."    These areas need to be improved but they are not the rootcause of the trade gap problem, Roderick said. He urgedAmerican manufacturers to become more competitive so they cancompete in global markets.    In the speech, the USX chairman also called for changes insecurities laws to curb what he called abuses by corporateraiders and speculators.    Among his proposals, which he presented to the SenateBanking Committee in testimony last week, were a requirementthat raiders give 24-hour notice for every one pct of stockthey acquire in a company.    Roderick proposed that tender offers must be made for allcash to all stockholders on equal terms and that raiders berequired to have financing in place before a tender is made.    Further, raiders should be required to make an all-cashtender offer once they acquire 10 pct of a target company'sstock, he said. And payment of greenmail, or a preferentialprice by a target company to buy back a raider's stake, shouldbe prohibited under the revised laws.    Roderick said changes were necessary to curb abuses butthat he did not want laws that would hurt the financial marketsor discourage "fair price to all" takeovers. Reuter
U.S. PAYMENTS GAP TO PERSIST, EX-FED CHIEF SAYS The dollar will decline over the nexttwo to three years, but this is unlikely to result in acomplete reduction of the U.S. current account deficit, saidAnthony Solomon, chairman of S.G. Warburg (USA) Inc and formerpresident of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.    In a presentation to the Japan Society, Solomon saidwithout elaboration that he expects a "significant decline inthe dollar," within the next three years.    "The dollar will fall more, but the current account deficitwill stop being reduced when it reaches its structural core,"he said.    Solomon described the structural core as about one-half ofthe current 150 billion dlr annual deficit. He cited severalfactors which will prevent an elimination of the deficit.    For one thing, it is unlikely that there will be any newinvestment in those manufacturing industries that shrank whenthe dollar was at uncompetitive levels, he said.    In addition, he said that the U.S. has an increasedpropensity to import in order to satisify consumer tastes.    Solomon forecast inflation at 4.5 pct by year-end, but saidit could be kept below five pct in the medium-term if oilprices are stable and commodity values remain low. Reuter
SOVIET ECONOMIST SEES FEW 1987 GAINS IN U.S. TRADE There is little chance Soviet exportsto the United States will rise in 1987, but Moscow's currenttrade reforms should result in more trade in manufactured goodsin future, a Soviet economist said.    Sergey Frolov, chief economist at Amtorg Trading Corp, anagent for Soviet trade organisations and industries, told aU.S.-USSR business meeting the Soviet Union produces few itemsthat western nations want.    But reforms, including upgrading the quality of goods andallowing joint ventures with foreign firms, will encouragemodest export gains in future.    Frolov said the Soviet Union exported 500 mln dlrs worth ofgoods to the United States in 1986 and imported 1.5 billiondlrs worth. He gave no trade forecast for 1987.    But he said that even if all obstacles were removed, totaltrade between the two countries would remain between two andthree billion dlrs a year.    "The post-detente embargoes have taught the USSR to limitits trading with the U.S.," he said. REUTER
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - JAPAN PUSHES ITS CHIPMAKERS Japanese microchip makers are beingstrong-armed into compliance with a U.S.-Japan pact onsemiconductors halting predatory pricing and opening Japan'smarket to foreign chips, industry analysts said.    But doubts remain over whether the Ministry ofInternational Trade and Industry (MITI), which is pressuringthe firms, can successfully battle market forces and whetherthe U.S. Industry is geared up to take advantage of anybreathing space, they said.    U.S. Threats to scrap the agreement signed last Septemberhave pushed MITI to try harder to get recalcitrant Japanesechipmakers to abide by the pact, the analysts said.    "MITI has been moving hot and heavy throughout the industryto get things done," said Bache Securities (Japan) associatevice president Peter Wolffe.    Last month, MITI told chipmakers to cut production for theJanuary to March period by 10 pct to help dry up inexpensivechips that have escaped from Japan to grey markets not subjectto the pact's price controls.    The ministry also asked electronics firms to providedistributors with certificates designating them as authorisedexporters, in an effort to close loopholes through which greymarketeers sneak chips out of Japan, market analysts said.    U.S. Trade negotiators here last week said the pact was injeopardy because of continued dumping in non-American marketsand little sign of increased foreign sales in Japan.    But major Japanese firms appear to have agreed to theproduction cuts, several analysts said. Last week, NEC Corpsaid it would cut production in line with MITI's request.    "NEC has been the most aggressive in resisting MITI'sdemands," said David Keller, analyst at James Capel and Co. "OnceNEC cuts production, it means they all have."    Still, pressures remain to keep production high. Japanesefirms need high output to cut unit prices for U.S. Sales thatthe Commerce Department assigns them under the pact.    "The best way to lower cost is to produce more," said SalomonBrothers Asia Ltd analyst Carole Ryavec.    Preparations for a possible upturn in demand could alsospur higher production next quarter, Merrill Lynch analyst MattAizawa said.    Grey marketeers may also be able to outfox any newrestrictions, some industry officials said.    "It's like tax avoidance schemes," said Steve Donovan, headof MMI Japan K.K. "As soon as you close one route, anotheropens."    MITI's pressure has annoyed some makers, who had earliershrugged off MITI guidance.    "It's getting to be like communism," said one.    But analysts said output cuts could help by making iteasier to increase prices as planned on April 1 and forcingfirms to stop extending market share by selling at a loss.    "They're going to have to start running their businesseslike businesses," Bache's Wolffe said.    MITI has also been conducting a highly public campaignurging chip users to buy foreign-made chips, but U.S. Industryofficials said response has been mixed at best.    "There has been some change, but it's not across the board,"said one U.S. Spokesman. "The companies have a varying degree ofurgency."    The ultimate impact of all these efforts by MITI on thetroubled U.S. Industry remains in doubt, analysts added.    Pressure to cut production of 256 kilobit DRAM (dynamicrandom access memory) chips could merely speed the transitionto one megabit chips, where Japan now leads, analysts said.    Whether U.S. Firms are able to stage a comeback in memorychips, or interested in doing so, also remains unclear, theysaid.    Analysts are watching with interest the fate of a new U.S.Consortium which hopes to challenge Japan by developing themost advanced technology for microchip manufacturing.    Even in the thorny area of access, much depends on U.S.Commitment as well as on Japanese openness, some said.    "The SIA (U.S. Semiconductor Industry Association) doesn'teven have an office here," a source close to the industry said."You could question just how committed they are."    In addition, some industry analysts question theeffectiveness of a bilateral agreement that leaves out thirdcountry chipmakers such as those in South Korea.    "(South) Korea's gaining market share," said one analyst."They're the real winners from the agreement." REUTER
KOREA PLANS TO OPEN MARKETS TO EASE WON PRESSURE South Korea will further open its marketto help cut its trade surplus with the U.S. And to fight offpressure to revalue the won against the dollar, a governmentspokesman said.    The spokesman said Korean trade minister Rha Woong-Bae'sstand in Washington yesterday against pressure from industrialnations to revalue the won underlined the government'sdetermination to stand firm.    Rha told the U.S. Chamber of Commerce "Demands that Koreacarry out a drastic and sudden currency revaluation of five or10 pct are, I believe, extremely ill-advised."    Deputy prime minister Kim Mahn-Je told a meeting of localbusinessmen "The government's policy on the question ofrevaluing the won is to maintain a steadfast position."    Kim said South Korea was ready to move slowly to raise thewon's value because of its heavy foreign debt which stood at44.5 billion dlrs at the end of 1986.    Six industrialised nations agreed in Paris last month thatnewly industrialising countries, such as South Korea andTaiwan, should allow their currencies to appreciate.    But local businessmen have said won/dollar parity hasalready reached "a crisis level."    An official of the Korea Traders' Association (KTA) said ifthe won strengthened another five pct, this would mean the lossof profitability for nearly half of all South Korean exporters.    "We are determined not to go the way of Latin Americandebtor nations which have suspended interest payments of theirdebts," the spokesman said. "The only way to keep our good recordis to maintain our exports.+    The trade minister said yesterday should Seoul revalue thewon suddenly Korea would run "a tremendous trade deficit andcould degenerate into a country, like many other developingcountries, which is reneging on its international obligations."    The spokesman said South Korea had been graduallyappreciating its currency, ruling out a major revaluation. Sofar this year, the won has gone up by 0.8 pct against thedollar after a 3.34 pct revaluation in 1986.    He said South Korea was selecting "many" of 122 items onwhich Washington recently asked Seoul to lower tariffs to helpnarrow its trade surplus with the U.S. No further details weregiven.    Seoul announced in January the lifting of bans on 158items, including sensitive agricultural products and largecars, effective from July.    South Korea posted its first ever current account surpluslast year, due largely to a trade surplus with the U.S. Of 7.1billion dlrs, against a 4.3 billion deficit in 1985. It earlierforecast that its current account surplus could reach eightbillion dlrs this year.    But the government official said the surplus would be heldat around five billion dlrs to avoid further pressure byindustrialised nations to push up the value of its currency. REUTER
JAPAN CANNOT BEAR FURTHER YEN RISE, MINISTER SAYS Japan cannot bear a further rise of theyen, Foreign Minister Tadashi Kuranari said.    "A further stronger yen would be a misfortune for Japan andthe Japanese people would not be able to bear such a burden," hetold reporters.    The minister said he wants to tell U.S. Political leadersof the sacrifices Japan is making to cut its trade surplus.    Kuranari was widely expected to fly to Washington tomorrowfor talks focussing on trade. But departure remains uncertainbecause of the continuing parliamentary boycott by oppositionparties protesting plans for a new sales tax.    If the boycott is lifted tomorrow, Kuranari would probablyhave to remain in Japan to attend parliamentary discussions onthe government's 1987/88 budget, Japanese officials said.    Kuranari said both the U.S. And Japan should approach thetrade imbalance in a calm, unemotional manner.    But, he added, "If the issue of rice is to be raised...Iwould mention the feelings of the Japanese people."    Japanese politicians have said repeatedly the countrycannot bow to U.S. Pressure to liberalize rice imports becausethe issue is too sensitive. REUTER
SOVIET ECONOMIST SEES FEW GAINS IN U.S. TRADE There is little chance Soviet exportsto the United States will rise in 1987, but Moscow's currenttrade reforms should result in more trade in manufactured goodsin future, a Soviet economist said.    Sergey Frolov, chief economist at Amtorg Trading Corp, anagent for Soviet trade organisations and industries, told aU.S.-USSR business meeting the Soviet Union produces few itemsthat western nations want.    But reforms, including upgrading the quality of goods andallowing joint ventures with foreign firms, will encouragemodest export gains in future.    Frolov said the Soviet Union exported 500 mln dlrs worth ofgoods to the United States in 1986 and imported 1.5 billiondlrs worth. He gave no trade forecast for 1987.    But he said that even if all obstacles were removed, totaltrade between the two countries would remain between two andthree billion dlrs a year.    "The post-detente embargoes have taught the USSR to limitits trading with the U.S.," he said. REUTER
HUNGARY HOPES DEVALUATION WILL END TRADE DEFICIT National Bank of Hungary firstvice-president Janos Fekete said he hoped a planned eight pctdevaluation of the forint will spur exports and redress lastyear's severe trade deficit with the West.    Fekete told Reuters in an interview Hungary must achieve atleast equilibrium on its hard currency trade.    "It is useful to have a devaluation," he said. "There is now areal push to our exports and a bit of a curb to our imports."    The official news agency MTI said today Hungary woulddevalue by eight pct and it expected the new rates to beannounced later today. Fekete said the rates would come intoeffect tomorrow.    He said one reason for the devaluation was that Hungary hada higher rate of inflation over the past two years than itsmain partners (around eight pct in 1985 and between five and5.5 pct in 1986).    This was partly an after-effect of action Hungary took toprevent inflation from soaring during the oil price shocks ofthe 1970s, he added.    Hungary devalued by a similar amount last September and bybetween three and four pct early last year.    But the country's hard currency trade balance neverthelessfell into a deficit of 539.4 mln dlrs from a surplus of 295.3mln in 1986 and 1.2 billion in 1985.    Fekete said Hungary was hoping for a hard currency tradesurplus of between 200 and 300 mln dlrs this year, but that amore likely outcome would be closer to equilibrium on totalhard currency trade of around 10 billion dlrs.    One Western commercial attache here said: "Devaluation ofitself will not change anything. It will only be useful if theyalso make efforts to restructure industry and improve thequality of their export goods."    Fekete said he hoped to raise credits on good terms thisyear to invest in restructuring industry.    It would be his role to persuade international banks tocooperate in this process. He noted Hungary had been given anAA rating enabling it to raise money on the Japanese Samuraibond market.    Hungary's net hard currency debt soared to 7.79 billiondlrs last year from 5.01 billion in 1985, partly because of acurrent account deficit of 1.42 billion dlrs and partly becausethe fall in the dollar increased the dollar value of debtdenominated in marks or yen.    He said he feared net debt would also rise slightly thisyear, but he was in favour of borrowing for the purpose ofmodernisation.    "I am for credits to invest for that purpose," he said. "I amagainst credits for consumption." He forecast gross domesticproduct growth of two pct this year, from one pct in 1986.   Fekete said Hungary would continue to restructure its debtprofile by prepaying high interest shorter and medium termloans with cheaper long term money for which it was lookingmore and more to the fixed interest rate bond market, where heconsidered rates to be low.    Hard currency foreign exchange reserves would stay ataround 3.5 billion dlrs, he said. On the budget deficit, whichtripled to a provisional 47 billion forints last year afterquadrupling in 1985, Fekete said the finance ministry wasworking out measures to reduce an approved target deficit forthis year of 43.8 billion forints to between 30 and 35 billionforints. REUTER
U.S. 4TH QTR BALANCE OF PAYMENTS TRADE DEFICIT WAS RECORD 38.37 BILL The Bank of England said it provided themoney market with unspecified late assistance of around 240 mlnstg.    This brings its total assistance on the day to 346 mln stgcompared with a liquidity shortfall it estimated at a revised250 mln stg.    Overnight interbank sterling was being offered at eight pctshortly after the Bank's announcement. REUTER
U.S. TRADE DEFICIT 38.37 BILLION DLRS IN 4TH QTR The U.S. merchandise trade deficiton a balance of payments basis was a record 38.37 billion dlrsin the October to December fourth quarter, the CommerceDepartment said.    The record trade shortfall came after a revised 37.15billion dlr third quarter deficit. The department previouslyreported the third quarter deficit was 37.67 billion dlrs.    For the full year 1986, the merchandise trade deficit was arecord 147.7 billion dlrs, up from 124.4 billion dlrs in 1985,the department said.    During the final quarter last year imports rose 2.78billion dlrs or three pct to 95.7 billion dlrs, while exportsrose 1.56 billion dlrs or three pct to 57.33 billion dlrs.    The trade report on a balance of payments basis excludessuch factors as military sales and the costs of shipping andinsurance.    The Commerce Department said non-petroleum imports in thequarter were up 2.7 billion dlrs or three pct to 87.7 billiondlrs, with the largest increases in consumer goods, which rose1.2 billion dlrs, and in non-monetary gold and passenger carsfrom Canada, up 900 mln dlrs each.    Lumber imports from Canada fell 300 mln dlrs or 33 pctbecause of a 15 pct duty on imports from Canada, the departmentsaid. Passenger car imports fell 600 mln dlrs because of an 18pct decrease in the number of South Korean-made imported carsand a nine pct decrease from Japan.    On the exports side, agricultural exports rose 600 mln dlrsor nine pct to 7.1 billion dlrs, primarily because of a 104 pctor 600 mln dlr increase in soybean exports.    Soybean shipments to Western Europe rose sharply becausesupplies from Brazil, a traditional major exporter, werelimited by drought.    Commerce said the U.S. trade deficit with Latin Americarose 900 mln dlrs to 2.6 billion dlrs, with Japan increased 700mln dlrs to 14.8 billion dlrs and with Western Europe rose 200mln to 7.2 billion dlrs in the quarter.    The deficit with newly industrialized Far East countries,including Hong Kong, South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan, fell500 mln dlrs to eight billion dlrs and with Canada the deficitdecreased 200 mln dlrs to 3.3 billion dlrs in the quarter.    In the full year 1986, imports rose 30.6 billion dlrs ornine pct to 369.5 billion dlrs. Exports increased by only 7.3billion dlrs or three pct to 221.8 billion dlrs.    Commerce said petroleum imports during 1986 fell 16.6billion dlrs or 33 pct to 33.9 billion dlrs because of lowerprices. The average price per barrel decreased to 14.72 dlrsfrom 26.41 dlrs.    Agricultural exports fell by 2.6 billion dlrs or nine pctto 26.9 billion during the year. The average price of rice fell27 pct, cotton was down 22 pct, corn 18 pct, wheat 16 pct andsoybeans nine pct.    The trade deficit with Japan for all of 1986 rose 11.1billion dlrs to 54.6 billion dlrs and with Western Europeincreased 7.2 billion dlrs to 28.6 billion dlrs. Reuter
LICHT SEES RISE IN EUROPEAN BEET AREA: TRADE West German sugar statistician F.O.Licht estimates European beet plantings this year at 7.22 mlnhectares compared with a revised 1986 figure of 7.21 mln,traders said.    In its first estimate for 1987, it puts EC plantings at1.85 mln hectares compared with 1.89 mln in 1986, while itestimates sowings in Western Europe (including EC) at 2.49 mlnhectares compared with 2.50 mln in 1986.    Traders said Licht forecasts Eastern Europe plantings at4.73 mln hectares against 4.72 mln in 1986. Reuter
EC CONCERNED OVER U.S. TEXTILE IMPORT MOVES The European Community (EC) expresseddisquiet over protectionist moves in the United States to limitimports of textiles and said it would retaliate immediately ifEC exports were hit.    A spokeswoman for the EC Commission said EC External TradeCommissioner Willy De Clercq had written to his U.S.Counterpart, special U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter,outlining the concerns of the 12-nation Community.    The draft legislation under consideration by Congress wouldimpose permanent quotas on products entering the U.S. and seekto limit any increase to a growth in the overall trade. Reuter
SOUTH KOREA TO KEEP TRADE SURPLUS 3-5 YEARS South Korean Trade Minister RhaWoong Bae said his nation would maintain a trading surplus forthree to five years as a way to cut its foreign debt.    He said in an interview with Reuter that after a few yearsit was likely South Korea would drop barriers to foreign goodsand move toward a more balanced trade position.    He said the present trade surplus was vital if his nationwas to reduce its 44.5 billion dlr foreign debt.    Rha said that 1986 was the first year South Korea had atrade surplus - 4.5 billion dlrs, against a 1985 deficit of 900 mln dlrs.    Rha made his remarks at the end of a two-week trade missionhere during which a team he led agreed to buy U.S. productsvalued at 1.8 billion dlrs.    About 800 mln dlrs of the purchases here were in goods ofthe type South Korea normally bought from Japan.    Rha leaves today for Ottawa for trade talks with Canadianofficials and businessmen.    Asked if South Korea would retaliate against U.S. goods ifCongress closed U.S. markets to its products, he said "at thismoment, we have no thought of retaliation."    South Korea is a major exporter to the U.S. of textiles andapparel and electronic goods, such as television sets, videocassette records and personal computers.    Its purchases from the United States include electronictesting equipment, grains and cotton. Reuter
SOUTH KOREA TO MAINTAIN TRADE SURPLUS 3-5 YEARS South Korean Trade Minister RhaWoong Bae said his nation would maintain a trading surplus forthree to five years as a way to cut its foreign debt.    He said in an interview with Reuters that after a few yearsit was likely South Korea would drop barriers to foreign goodsand move toward a more balanced trade position.    He said the present trade surplus was vital if his nationwas to reduce its 44.5 billion dlr foreign debt.    Rha said that 1986 was the first year South Korea had atrade surplus - 4.5 billion dlrs, against a 1985 deficit of 900mln dlrs.    Asked if South Korea would drop its trade barriers once itsforeign debt was substantially reduced, he said "yes, I thinkso."    Rha made his remarks at the end of a two-week trade missionhere during which a team he led agreed to buy U.S. productsvalued at 1.8 billion dlrs.    About 800 mln dlrs of the purchases are in goods of thetype South Korea normally bought from Japan.    Rha was to leave later today for Ottawa for trade talkswith Canadian officials and businessmen.    He said in the interview the U.S. purchases were to reducehis country's 7.1 billion dlr surplus with the United Statesand also to cut its 5.6 billion dlr shortfall with Japan.    Rha said it was also due to a shift in exchange ratesbetween the U.S. dollar and the yen that made it cheaper to buyU.S. goods than Japanese goods.    He said South Korea heavily relied on foreign trade and hehoped the leaders of major trading nations could find a way toresolve the growing trend toward protectionist legislation.    Rha said "I hope the leaders can get together to find asolution by making some mutually satisfactory concessions."    But he added "the leaders seem hesitant to make concessionsbecause of domestic political reasons."    Speaking of his own country, he said "We have made a lot ofconcessions already."    He cited regulations permitting foreign investment inindustrial firms, allowing increased foreign banking activityand cracking down on piracy of intellectual property bystrengthening protection of copyrights and patents.    Rha said South Korea had also lowered many of its tariffs.    Asked if South Korea would retaliate against U.S. goods ifCongress closed U.S. markets to its products, he said "at thismoment, we have no thought of retaliation."    South Korea is a major exporter to the United States oftextiles and apparel and electronic goods, such as televisionsets, video cassette records and personal computers.    Its puchases from the United States include electronictesting equipment and grains and cotton.    The trade mission's purchases here included three Boeingpassenger planes for 400 mln dlrs, four McDonnell Douglasplanes for 300 mln dlrs; and machinery worth 725 mln dlrs. Reuter
U.S. HOUSE PANEL TAKES FIRST TRADE BILL VOTES House trade lawmakers took theirfirst votes on measures designed to toughen U.S. trade laws butheld over until tomorrow the most difficult votes oncontroversial plans to protect American industries.    Meeting in closed session, the House Ways and Means TradeSubcommittee failed to resolve one of the most sensitive issuesin the bill--whether they will force major foreign tradingpartners to severely cut their trade surpluses with the UnitedStates.    The subcommittee is considering a toned-down version ofDemocratic-sponsored trade legislation that aims to openforeign markets but which drops last year's effort to forcePresident Reagan to retaliate with quotas or tariffs.    Congressional aides who asked not to be identified said thelawmakers intend to wrap up their proposals tomorrow and willconsider a proposal to mandate retaliation without settingspecific trade penalties.    The legislation faces another hurdle in the full Ways andMeans Committee next week before the full House votes on it.    Rep. Richard Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat who is seekinghis party's 1988 presidential nomination, said he may offer anamendment to call for reductions in the trade surpluses ofthose countries with barriers to imports of U.S. goods.    This would be a moderated version of his earlier plan toforce a mandatory ten per cent annual cut in the trade surpluswith the United States by Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, WestGermany and other countries with the largest trade imbalances.    "My criteria for a good amendment sets a standard forgetting the trade deficit down," he told reporters.    The trade law changes are to become part of a majorcongressional and administration effort to turn around therecord U.S. trade deficit of 169 billion dlrs last year byopening up foreign markets and making U.S. products morecompetitive.    House Speaker James Wright, a Texas Democrat, said againtoday he expects the full House will approve the trade bill byMay and that Reagan will accept the final congressional bill.    "I expect whatever is reported (by the Ways and MeansCommittee) will pass. We will have a good bill and an effectivebill," he told reporters.    The comprehensive trade bill will include work by othercommittees to ease export controls on high technology, to aidU.S. workers displaced by foreign competition, to stimulateresearch and development, to remove foreign trade barriers andto improve education and worker training.    The lawmakers agreed that for the first time a U.S.industry could charge foreign producers with unfair competitionif they deny basic worker rights such as collective bargaining,safety rules and payment of a minimum wage appropriate to thecountry's economic development.    They transferred to U.S. Trade Representative ClaytonYeutter the powers now held by Reagan to decide whether toretaliate against foreign violations of fair trade rules andwhether an injured industry deserves import relief.    They agreed to make it easier for a company to gettemporary relief from import competition but agreed theindustry should provide a plan to become competitive.    The administration has not announced its support butYeutter said yesterday, "I am cautiously optimistic," that theDemocratic-led House will come up with an acceptable bill. Reuter
SOVIET MINISTER SAYS TRADE BOOST UP TO FRENCH Soviet first deputy prime ministerVsevolod Murakhovsky said at the end of a brief visit here hiscountry wanted to boost joint business with France, but that areduction of France's trade deficit with the Soviet Uniondepended on the French.    Murakhovsky, who is also chairman of the StateAgro-Industrial Committee (GOSAGROPROM), told a news conferencehe had discussed a variety of possible deals with Frenchcompanies Rhone-Poulenc, Pechiney and Imec.    Declining to put figures on possible contracts he said hehad discussed plant protection and the processing of highlysulphuric gas with Rhone-Poulenc, packaging technology foragricultural products with Pechiney, and fruit and vegetablejuice processing with Imec.    An official for Pechiney said an agreement of intent onpackaging could be signed soon, but could not give any otherdetails. The other two companies were not immediately availablefor comment.    Asked whether he foresaw a reduction this year of France'strade shortfall, at 7.6 billion francs in the first 11 monthsof 1986 against 5.1 billion for the whole of 1985, Murakhovskytold Reuters: "It all depends on France."    At a meeting in Paris last January French and Sovietforeign trade ministers said they were committed to increasedefforts to reduce the deficit. Estimates at the time showed aFrench 190 mln franc surplus for December 1986.    Murakhovsky said the Soviet Union was prepared to talk withanybody with "interesting" proposals offering latest technologyand assuring "a mutual advantage."    He said the Soviet Union had many tasks ahead of it andwould deal rapidly with proposals it considered interesting.    He encouraged companies to take advantage of new lawsguaranteeing "the interests of foreign partners" in jointventures.    But he said no agreements had yet been finalised under thenew joint venture laws.    He said concrete deals had not yet been finalised as aresult of a one billion dollar accord signed in Moscow lastmonth with French businessman Jean-Baptiste Doumeng.    He said Doumeng's Interagra company was preparing proposalsfor further examination by the Soviet Union. Doumeng last monthsaid the agreement was to exchange one billion dollars worth ofgoods.    Murakhovsky said the agreement was one of intent, anddesigned primarily to renew and increase the Soviet Union'sfood production capacity. Reuter
BRITAIN CALLS ON JAPAN TO INCREASE IMPORTS Britain today called on Japan toincrease foreign imports or risk the rise of protectionism andthe harm it would bring to it and other trading nations.    British Trade and Industry Secretary Paul Channon saidJapan must heed a report issued by a Japanese governmentadvisory body in December calling for faster domestic demand tohelp cut its trade surplus and restructure its economy.    "I recognise that the strong yen has brought problems toJapan's domestic economy," he told a group of Japanesebusinessmen in London.    "But these short term difficulties should not be allowed todeflect Japan from the fundamental reforms necessary," he said.    "It is not just a domestic issue for Japan. If importpropensity does not expand very soon there is a real risk fromprotectionist lobbies, particularly in the U.S. With whom Japanhas so massive a surplus," he said.    "They may well succeed in securing action by governmentswhich would be highly injurious to trading nations like Japanand the U.K."    Channon said there had been substantial growth in thevolume of trade between Japan and Britain, amounting to 6.2billion sterling (9.8 billion dlrs) last year.    But he added: "Regrettably too much of it was in onedirection, with the Japanese selling us 3.7 billion sterling(5.8 billion dlrs) more than we sold them." Reuter
TAIWAN FURTHER RELAXES FOREIGN GOODS IMPORT CURBS Taiwan said it would soon relax importcontrols on some 400 foreign items, including stationery andbooks, in a further effort to allow trading partners,especially the U.S., Greater access to its markets.    Taiwan announced the easing of import curbs on some 600farm and industrial products last month, a Council for EconomicPlanning and Development spokesman told Reuters.    He said the new move was intended to balance trade betweenTaiwan and its trading partners. The island's trade surplusreached a record 15.6 billion U.S. Dlrs last year, up from10.62 billion in 1985.    In January, Taiwan cut import tariffs on some 1,700 foreignproducts and allowed imports of U.S. Wine, beer and cigarettes.    "We hope the measures will help reduce our trade surplusthis year, especially with that of the U.S.," the spokesmansaid.    Washington is pressing Taiwan to open its markets wider asa way of cutting its trade deficit with the island, which roseto 2.35 billion U.S. Dlrs in the first two months of 1987 from1.87 billion in the year-earlier period. REUTER
FRENCH 1986 CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS REVISED The French 1986 current account balanceof payments surplus has been revised slightly upwards to 25.8billion francs from the 25.4 billion franc figure announcedlast month, the Finance Ministry said.    This compares with a 1.5 billion deficit in 1985, and whileit is the first surplus since 1979, is substantially lower thanthe 50 billion surplus forecast by the previous socialistgovernment before they lost office in March last year.    Net long-term capital outflows rose sharply to 70.5 billionfrancs last year from 8.8 billion in 1985, largely due to amajor program of foreign debt repayment, the ministry said.    In the fourth quarter alone the unadjusted surplus rose to14.1 billion francs from 6.6 billion the previous quarter, butthe adjusted surplus fell to 7.4 billion from 9.1 billion.    Fourth quarter medium and long-term foreign debt repaymentsexceeded new credits by 11 billion francs. REUTER
CHINA TRADE DEFICIT FALLS IN JANUARY China's trade deficit in January fell to310 mln dlrs from 460 mln in January 1986, the China DailyBusiness Weekly said.    Quoting customs figures, the paper said exports fell to1.75 billion dlrs from 1.84 billion and imports fell to 2.06billion from 2.3 billion. REUTER
CANADA JANUARY TRADE SURPLUS 533 MLN DLRS AFTER DECEMBER 965 MLN DLRS Canada had a trade surplus of 533 mln dlrsin January compared with an upward revised 965 mln dlrs surplusin December, Statistics Canada said.    The December surplus originally was reported at 964 mlndlrs. The January surplus last year was 1.19 billion dlrs.    January exports, seasonally adjusted, were 9.72 billiondlrs against 10.39 billion in December and 10.89 billion inJanuary, 1986.    January imports were 9.19 billion dlrs against 9.43 billionin December and 9.71 billion in January 1986. Reuter
CANADA LEADERS FAIL TO SET PACT ON FREE TRADE Prime Minister Brian Mulroney said heheld "frank" discussions with the Canadian province premiers onthe pace of free trade talks with the United States, but thelongstanding issue of provincial ratification remains to besettled.    Speaking to reporters after nearly five hours of meetingswith the 10 premiers, Mulroney said further discussions wouldbe held in June and September to discuss the role of theprovinces in approving any new trade deal.    But he maintained progress was being made in the sweepingtalks with the Unites States that got under nearly two yearsago.    "It appears reasonable progress is being made (in thetalks)," Mulroney said.    Alberta Premier Don Getty agreed, "Things are running prettyquickly now."    The talks, launched by Mulroney's Progressive Conservativegovernment after concerns about protectionist sentiment in theU.S., are aimed reducing the remaining barriers between theworld's largest trading partnership.    But the provinces are expected to play a major role in anynew trading arrangement, and some of the provincial leaderscomplained of a lack of progress on reaching a ratificationformula.    "It's my view that we should be thinking about these thingsright now, along with the questions of the substance of theagreement," commented Ontario Premier David Peterson, who hasbeen highly critical of the talks in the past.    But Newfoundland Premier Brian Peckford said an agreementwas more likely to emerge by consensus and there would be noneed for a "hard and fast formula."    Peckford said it appears Canada is prepared to makeconcessions to the United States on financial services in orderto make inroads on other bargaining areas, such as agriculture.    Canadian published reports, quoting government sources, saythe two countries are close to reaching a trade deal and itwill involve eliminating border tariffs and many non-tariffbarriers over the next 10 to 12 years.    A rough draft of the accord is expected to be presented tothe premiers at the June meeting while the finished document ishoped to be presented to Congress in October.    "It's a very tight time frame," Ontario's Peterson said lastnight. "But at this moment it is tough to say what willtranspire." Reuter
BALDRIGE OPPOSES JAPANESE PURCHASE OF FIRM Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrigehas asked the White House to consider blocking the plannedJapanese acquisition of a major U.S. supercomputer andsemiconductor manufacturer for national security reasons, U.S.officials said.    The officials, who asked not to be named, said yesterdaythat Baldrige has "serious concerns" about the sale of FairchildSemiconductor Corp. to Fujitsu Ltd., another major electronicsfirm.    The officials told Reuters that if the sale went through itcould leave the U.S. military overly dependent on a foreign/ompany for vital high technology equipment used in itsadvanced missiles, aircraft electronics and intelligencegathering.    In addition, they said, the sale would also worsen thealready strained trade relations between the U.S. and Japanstemming from the huge Japanese surplus.    The White House Economic Policy Council would consider thesale in the coming weeks, they said.    Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger's position was notimmediately known but in the past he has opposed the transferof high technology to foreign governments and companies.    Supercomputers made by Fairchild and other U.S.manufacturers are widely used throughout the world, but nonehave been sold to the Japanese government or to Japanesegovernment-run agencies and universities. Reuter
TAIWAN TO RELAX IMPORT CURBS ON MORE GOODS Taiwan will relax import controls onmore foreign goods, a government spokesman said today.    The move was to allow greater access to Taiwan markets byoverseas trading partners, especially the United States, anofficial of the Council for Economic Planning and Developmenttold Reuters.    Import curbs on about 400 foreign goods, includingstationery and books, would soon be relaxed, he said.    Taiwan announced it would ease curbs on some 600 farmingand industrial products last month.    The official said the moves were intended to balance tradebetween Taiwan and the United States and other tradingpartners. Taiwan's trade surplus reached a record 15.6 billiondlrs last year, up from 10.62 billion in 1985. Reuter
PAKISTAN'S TRADE DEFICIT NARROWS IN FEBRUARY Pakistan's trade deficit narrowed to2.64 billion rupees (provisional) in February 1987 from 2.85billion (final) in January and compared with 2.94 billion inFebruary 1986, the Federal Bureau of Statistics figures show.    Exports fell to 5.04 billion rupees (provisional) inFebruary from 5.34 billion (final) in January and compared with3.90 billion in February 1986.    Imports fell to 7.68 billion rupees (provisional) inFebruary from 8.19 billion (final) in January and compared with6.84 billion in February 1986. REUTER
SWEDEN SETS OCTOBER DEADLINE FOR S.AFRICA BOYCOTT Sweden announced its promised programof unilateral economic sanctions against South Africa and gavefirms an October deadline to cut trading links.    Foreign Trade Minister Anita Gradin said a trade boycott ofSouth Africa and neighbouring Namibia would take effect fromJuly 1, followed by a three-month period of grace to givecompanies time to wind down their operations.    From October 1, no direct trade would be allowed in eitherdirection, with certain exceptions covering medical suppliesand printed matter, Gradin told a news conference.    She said exceptions would also be granted in cases where aSwedish trade boycott would benefit South African firms anddisadvantage South Africa's black-ruled neighbours, thefront-line states.    Gradin cautioned that legislation upon which the boycottwould be based was not impossible to get round. She said aparliamentary committee would investigate ways of closing someof the bigger loopholes, including indirect trade with SouthAfrica via Swedish subsidiaries in third countries. REUTER
KEY U.S. HOUSE TRADE SUBCOMMITTEE APPROVES BILL TO TOUGHEN U.S. TR Summit Petroleum Corp said itsold 11.3 mln shares, or 29.4 pct, of its common stock to<Halbert and Associates Inc>.    The company said the shares were previously held by<Consolidated Energy Corp> and Harken Oil and Gas Inc <HOGI>.    In addition, David D. Halbert, president and chiefexecutive officer of Halbert, an Abilene investment firm, wasnamed chairman and chief executive of Summit, the company said.   Halbert, Charles M. Bruce and James O. Burke were also nameddirectors, expanding the board to five, Summit added.    The company said Burke is president and chief executive of<Allied Comprehensive Health Inc>, Abilene, while Bruce is apartner in the Washington law firm of Butler and Binion.    Summit said it intends to actively seek acquisitions toincrease its asset base. Reuter
NO CLEAR EVIDENCE TRADE GAP REVERSED - VOLCKER Federal Reserve Board Chairman PaulVolcker said current data does not give a clear sign that thedeterioration in the U.S. trade balance has yet been reversed.    "The data we have in hand do not provide clearcut evidencethat the deterioration in the trade balance has yet beenreversed," Volcker said in remarks prepared for delivery to aluncheon for community leaders here.    However, Volcker said there are encouraging signs,particularly the rising volume of exports over the past year,achieved despite relatively slow growth abroad.    Volcker warned it is not sustainable from an economicperspective to pile up foreign debt while failing to make theinvestment needed to generate growth and earn the money toservice the debt.    He said the process of restoring external balance to theU.S. economy requires dealing with the budget deficit. He saidneeded economic adjustment will require a relative shift offinancial and real resources into internationally competitiveindustry. "More of our growth will need to be reflected in netexports and business investment and less in consumption,"Volcker said. Reuter
U.S. HOUSE PANEL APPROVES TRADE BILL The House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee unanimously approved a toned-down version oflegislation designed to toughen U.S. trade laws and wedge openforeign markets to more U.S. goods.    The measure now goes to the full House Ways and MeansCommittee next week, but major changes are not expected,congressional sources said.    "This product could very well be toughening our trade policyand doing it in a manner that opens markets without thisfrightening word 'protectionism'," Ways and Means chairman DanRostenkowski, an Illinois Democrat said.    The trade subcommittee backed away from mandating specificretaliation against foreign countries for unfair foreign tradepractices as the House had approved in a trade bill last year.    But it held over for the full Ways and Means Committeedebate on a controversial plan by Rep. Richard Gephardt tomandate a reduction in trade surpluses with the U.S. bycountries such as Japan, South Korea and Taiwan.    Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat, has not decided the exactform of his amendment, an aide said. Last year the Houseapproved his idea to force an annual ten pct trade surplus cutby those countries.     The trade bill will be wrapped in with legislation fromother committees dealing with relaxation of export controls,incentives for research, expanded worker training and educationand other efforts to increase U.S. competitiveness.    The comprehensive trade bill is to be considered by thefull House in late April and then will be considered by Senatecommittees.    It requires President Reagan to retaliate against foreignunfair trade practices but do not mandate quotas or tariffs andallow an exemption if U.S. economic security would be harmed byU.S. actions against other countries.    The bill would make it easier for U.S. industries to winrelief from surges of imports of competitive products.    It extends until January 1993, the administration'sauthority to negotiate trade agreements as part of the newround of multilateral talks under the General Agreements onTariffs and Trade.    And, it includes provisions to tighten trade rules oncopyrights, patents and telecommunications goods. Reuter
U.S. HOUSE PANEL APPROVES TRADE BILL The U.S. House Ways and Means TradeSubcommittee unanimously approved a toned-down version oflegislation designed to toughen U.S. trade laws and wedge openforeign markets to more U.S. goods.    The measure now goes to the full House Ways and MeansCommittee next week, but major changes are not expected,congressional sources said.    "This product could very well be toughening our trade policyand doing it in a manner that opens markets without thisfrightening word 'protectionism'," Ways and Means chairman DanRostenkowski, an Illinois Democrat said.    The trade subcommittee backed away from mandating specificretaliation against foreign countries for unfair foreign tradepractices as the House had approved in a trade bill last year.    But it held over for the full Ways and Means Committeedebate on a controversial plan by Rep. Richard Gephardt tomandate a reduction in trade surpluses with the U.S. bycountries such as Japan, South Korea and Taiwan.    Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat, has not decided the exactform of his amendment, an aide said. Last year the Houseapproved his idea to force an annual 10 pct trade surplus cutby those countries. Reuter
AUSTRALIAN TERMS OF TRADE WORSEN IN LAST QUARTER Australia's terms of trade fell by afurther 3.5 pct in the fourth quarter of 1986 after declining0.8 pct in the third quarter and 2.7 pct a year earlier, theStatistics Bureau said.    It said the seasonally adjusted current account deficit of3.22 billion dlrs in the quarter would have dropped to 912 mlnif not for the terms of trade decline.    The fourth quarter decline followed a 1.1 pct fall inexport prices and a 2.4 pct rise in import prices, it said.    The Bureau noted Australia's terms of trade had fallen by19.9 pct since the fourth quarter of 1983. REUTER
JAPAN DENIES BREAKING SEMICONDUCTOR TRADE PACT Japan denied breaking a pact with theU.S. On semiconductor trade but said prices set out in the pactwere too high and acknowledged difficulties in implementing theaccord.    "We are faithfully abiding by the ... Agreement but ofcourse there are some problems," a spokesman for theInternational Trade and Industry Ministry told Reuters.    He said the high semiconductor prices recommended by theagreement were leaving Japanese manufacturers piling up stocksof unsellable products. "We are aiming to reduce production inJapan but of course this takes time," he said.    The spokesman said some Japanese companies were sellingchips in Europe and Asia below stipulated prices, but added: "Itis only a matter of time before we solve this problem."    The eight month old pact aims to stop Japan selling largequantities of chips at knock-down prices to the United Statesand other countries and to increase U.S. Semiconductor sales inJapan.    The U.S. Senate Finance Committee this week called onPresident Reagan in a non-binding resolution to retaliateagainst Japan for violating the agreement. REUTER
SWISS FEB TRADE DEFICIT 629.7 MLN FRANCS (JAN DEFICIT 209.4 MLN) -  Australian beef output is forecast todecline to 1.34 mln tonnes carcass weight in 1987 and 1.36 mlnin 1988 from 1.44 mln in 1986, the Australian Meat andLive-Stock Corp (AMLC) said.    Exports of beef/veal are also predicted to decline to480,000 tonnes shipped weight in 1987 from 515,000 in 1986, andthen rally to 490,000 in 1988, the AMLC said in a summary ofits bi-annual meat and livestock forecasts.    It sees cattle numbers remaining at around the 1986 levelof 23.2 mln beasts in both years because herd rebuilding isexpected to be slower than previously forecast.    Beef producers are becoming more confident that higherreturns in the market, both domestically and overseas, willcontinue, the AMLC said.    The slow herd build-up and the forecast lower production isexpected to bring about a slight drop in both export anddomestic consumption this year, it said.    The forecast does not assume a turnaround in productionlevels until late next year.    It said the outlook for beef exports as a proportion ofoutput remains much the same as last year when it was around 55pct of total production. In 1985 it was 52 pct.    The increase in exports of beef as a percentage ofproduction has mainly been attributed to the decline in theAustralian dollar, the AMLC said.    It also forecast that Australia's four major markets, theU.S., Japan, Canada and Taiwan, will continue to dominate thechilled and frozen beef export markets. They take collectivelyaround 94 pct of total Australian exports. REUTER
SWISS FEBRUARY TRADE DEFICIT 629.7 MLN FRANCS Switzerland had a trade deficit of 629.7mln Swiss francs in February compared with a revised 209.4 mlndeficit in January and 723.2 mln shortfall in February 1986,the Federal Customs Office said.    February imports were 6.00 billion francs against exportsof 5.37 billion.    Imports rose in real terms by 5.1 pct against February 1986while exports rose by a real 4.6 pct, the office said.    But a further improvement in the terms of trade left thedeficit smaller than last year.    Last February's figure had also been hit by the import oftwo passenger aircraft. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN CALLS FOR LONG-TERM EFFORTS ON TRADE The short-term effect of foreign exchangerate movements in correcting international trade imbalancesappears to be waning, and long-term efforts are required to cutJapan's chronic dependence on external demand, the Bank ofJapan said in a monthly report.    Japan's trade surplus in nominal terms is likely to remainhigh in the near future, the central bank said.    Fundamental adjustments will be needed as long as Japanhopes to benefit from a better international allocation ofresources and maintain the free trade system, it added. REUTER
GERMAN BANK SEES GOOD SOVIET TRADE PROSPECTS Soviet-West German trade is expectedto develop favourably due to Moscow's increasing openness toEast-West economic relations, Dresdner Bank AG's Moscowrepresentative Michael Stein said.    He told a bank presentation the Soviet Union was last yearhit by the fall in world oil prices, which cut export revenuefrom oil-related products and natural gas, and its overseasbuying power was also adversely affected by the lower dollar.   Dresdner Bank economist Alfred Apholte said the SovietUnion's large currency and gold reserves had softened theimpact of the dollar weakening and oil price drop. REUTER
WHITE HOUSE SAYS TRADE BILL GENERALLY GOOD White House spokesman MarlinFitzwater said the administration had some disagreements withthe trade bill that cleared a House subcommittee yesterday butgenerally felt good about the bill.    "Generally we feel very good about the bipartisanconsideration of the trade legislation. I think we areprogressing very well," he told reporters.    "There are wide areas of agreement. There are some areas ofdisagreement," he said.                  Reuter
DUTCH TRADE FULLY IN BALANCE BUT DOWN IN JANUARY The Netherlands recorded a flat tradebalance in January, with both exports and imports totaling 14.2billion guilders, a modestly lower compared with December butsharply down from January last year, an Economics Ministryspokesman said, quoting official statistics.    January 1986 exports compared with a December figure of15.0 billion guilders and were 25 pct below last year's levelof 18.9 billion.    January 1986 imports compared with 15.3 billion guilders inDecember and fell 18 pct from 17.4 billion in January lastyear. REUTER
TRADE BILL TO CHANGE AGRICULTURE TRADE LAWS The House Ways and Means Committeeis moving toward passage of a trade bill that sponsors said wasintended to help open foreign markets to U.S. agriculturalgoods and to modify some U.S. agricultural trade laws.    The trade subcommittee voted to require President Reagan totake into account the potential harm to U.S. agriculturalexports of any trade retaliation he might impose for foreignunfair trade practices against other domestic industries.    The bill would allow U.S. agricultural producers to seekgovernment monitoring of imports if there is a reasonablechance the industry would be harmed by an import surge.    The full Ways and Means Committee is to consider the billnext week and congressional sources said they expect it will beapproved.     In investigations involving a processed agriculturalproduct, trade associations of processors or producers wouldhave to petition for relief from foreign dumping or unfairduties.     The bill sets out U.S. trade negotiating objectives forthe Uruguay round of talks under the General Agreement onTariffs and Trade. It would seek fair trade in agriculture,seek to discipline restrictive or trade distorting import andexport practices, to eliminate tariffs, subsidies, quotas andnon-tariff barriers.     President Reagan's authority to negotiate a new GATTagreement would be extended through January 1993 and authorityto negotiate a free trade zone with Canada would be extendedthrough January 3, 1991.    The bill extends Reagan's authority to negotiate aninternational coffee agreement through October 31, 1989.    It allows a refund of import duties paid on raw sugarimported from November 1, 1977 to March 31, 1985 for productionof sugar or products containing sugar and destined forre-export. The export of the sugar or products must occurbefore Octoer 1, 1991.    Presently, to qualify for the refund the sugar must beprocessed within three years after import and exported withinfive years.    Agriculture would also benefit from more rapid decisions incomplaints of unfair foreign trade practices or injury fromimports. Reuter
SWEDISH TRADE SURPLUS RISES IN FEBRUARY Sweden's trade surplus rose to 3.6billion crowns in February from 1.5 billion in January and 3.48billion in February 1986, the Central Bureau of Statisticssaid.    The trade surplus for the first two months of the year roseto 5.1 billion crowns from 4.9 billion in the correspondingperiod of 1986.    The report said February imports stood at 20.1 billioncrowns while exports were 23.7 billion. REUTER
BALDRIGE WARNS OF WORLD TRADE WAR DANGER U.S. Commerce Secretary MalcolmBaldrige predicted Congress will pass a reasonable trade billthis year and said tough protectionist legislation could prompta trade war.    "The mood of the Congress right now is as tough on trade asI've ever seen it in six years in Washington," Baldrige said ina television interview.    "I think we'll still be able to get a reasonable trade billout in spite of that because the whole Congress is trying towork together with the administration, but there is a hardeningtrade attitude," he said.    President Reagan opposes protectionist legislation, butagreed to support a trade bill when it became apparent thatopposition Democrats would pass such legislation.    However, Baldrige warned measures that would penalisetrading partners such as Japan, South Korea and Taiwan forfailing to cut their trade surpluses with the U.S. Could leadto retaliation and he said he would urge Reagan to veto anysuch bill.    When asked if there is a rising danger of a worldwide tradewar, Baldrige said: "Yes, I don't think there's any questionabout that." REUTER
TENSE TRADE TIES TO DOMINATE EC TALKS Tense trade relations with the U.S.And Japan and concern about the foreign impact of a proposedEuropean Community (EC) tax on edible oils and fats areexpected to dominate talks by EC foreign ministers heretomorrow.    EC diplomats said Britain demanded the early debate on theEC Executive Commission's proposal to impose a hefty tax ondomestic and imported oils and fats in an attempt to head off aproposal it sees as extremely damaging to EC foreign relations.    The proposal was the most controversial part of a reformpackage, due to be discussed by EC farm ministers later thismonth, of the EC's Common Agricultural Policy -- widely seen asthe root cause of the EC's persistent financial problems and oftensions with major trading partners.    The proposal is described by its promoters as astabilisation program which would penalise a new sector goinginto massive overproduction and complement proposals to cutcereals and dairy production, rather than a straight forwardtax.    They say it would not only curb the growth of oils and fatsproduction and prevent imports from filling any vaccum left bya fall in EC output, but would also save the EC some twobillion European Currency Units, over two billion dlrs, in farmcosts.    It has provoked strong protests from domestic producers aswell as foreign exporters, led by the United States.    The diplomats said the protests had been received from mostcorners of the developing and developed world, ranging fromSenegal, Malaysia and Indonesia, to Brazil, Argentina, Canada,Iceland and Norway.    The proposal had little chance of approval by ECgovernments, with West Germany as strongly opposed to it asBritain, and Denmark, the Netherlands and Portugal alsounconvinced of its political or economic wisdom.    Even Mediterranean countries such as Italy, France andGreece, which backed similar proposals in the past, did notseem as enthusiastic now because olive oil had been added tothe list of products affected.    But the diplomats said a protectionist lobby in the U.S.And elsewhere was using the proposal as an excuse to promoteanti-EC action, and the foreign ministers' debate shoulddemonstrate the strength of feeling against the proposal withinthe EC and deprive its oponents of this argument.    The ministers were also due to discuss proposals in theU.S. Congress for a range of protecionist legislation such as abill that would curb EC textile exports.    The diplomats said the ministers were expected to stronglyback a Commission warning to Washington that such a bill, ifenacted, would provoke swift EC retaliation. REUTER
AUSTRALIAN CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT SEEN NARROWING Australia's current account deficit forFebruary is expected to narrow to a range of between 700 mlnand one billion dlrs, from the unrevised January level of 1.29billion, market economists polled by Reuters said.    Statistics Bureau February figures are out tomorrow.    The economists said a key element in the narrowing would bea reversal of the drop in exports which took place in January,after a sharp rise in December when the deficit was only 598mln dlrs.    As an example they quoted wheat export volume, which roseabout 30 pct in February after dropping as much in January.    A lack of aircraft imports in February should alsocontribute on the trade account although it is still likely toremain in deficit, the economists said.    Other positive influences on the current account balanceshould be a decline in the invisibles deficit following aseasonal fall in interest payments and the dropping out ofcertain official aid payments, they said.    They said the Australian dollar, which last week touched aneight-month high of 0.6900 U.S. Dlrs but is now around the0.6800 level, should not react adversely to the figures unlessthe current account shortfall tops one billion dlrs. REUTER
CHINA REPORTS 700 MLN DLR TWO-MONTH TRADE DEFICIT China's trade deficit totalled 700 mlndlrs in the first two months of this year, according to figuresreleased by the State Statistics Bureau.    The New China News Agency quoted the Bureau as sayingforeign trade totalled 9.3 billion dlrs in the period, of whichexports were worth 4.3 billion dlrs.    The bureau said total trade volume was up 2.5 pct on thesame 1986 period, with exports up 18.1 pct, but it gave noother comparative figures.    China's 1986 trade deficit totalled 12 billion dlrs,official figures show. REUTER
NORWAY'S TRADE DEFICIT WIDENS IN FEBRUARY Norway's trade deficit widened in Februaryto 957 mln crowns from 80 mln crowns in January and 492 mlncrowns in February last year, the Central Bureau of Statisticssaid.    Exports dropped to 10.66 billion crowns last month,compared with 11.11 billion in January and 10.85 billion inFebruary 1986, it added.    Crude oil and natural gas exports totalled 4.56 billioncrowns in February, against 5.10 billion in January and 5.36billion a year ago.  REUTER
TURKISH TRADE DEFICIT WIDENS IN 1986 Turkey's trade deficit rose to 3.65billion dlrs in 1986 from 3.39 billion in 1985 followingincreased imports from Western countries, figures from theState Statistics Institute show.    Exports were down 6.3 pct at 7.45 billion dlrs, comparedwith 7.95 billion in 1985, while imports were down 2.1 pct at11.10 billion dlrs from 11.34 billion.    Total trade with Mid-East Gulf states fell some 40 pct dueto lower oil prices, with imports at 1.55 billion dlrs,compared with 2.74 billion, and exports at 1.65 billion after2.72 billion.    Exports to Organisation for Economic Cooperation andDevelopment countries rose to 4.29 billion dlrs from 4.11billion in 1985, while imports were 4.56 billion after 3.55billion.    Turkey's trade deficit in December narrowed to 216 mln dlrsfrom 340 mln in November, and compared with 277 mln in December1985.     Reuter
EGYPT, SOVIETS TO RENEGOTIATE ARMS DEBT TERMS Egypt and the Soviet Union are expectedto sign an agreement in Moscow next week settling Cairo's threebillion dlr military debt, Egyptian officials said.    One official, who asked to remain anonymous, told Reuters adraft agreement would reduce to zero from two pct futureinterest payable on the 10 year-old debt, and set a 25 yearrepayment term.    Talks are due to begin in Moscow on Wednesday.    Economy Minister Youssri Mustapha, who leaves for Moscow onTuesday, met President Hosni Mubarak and Egyptian ambassador toMoscow Salah Bassiouni to discuss the issue.    One official said Egypt would propose a new exchange ratefor trade with the Soviet Union. Current commerce is based on arate set in the 1960s of 0.38 Egyptian pounds to the dollarwhich Moscow sees as unreasonable. The fluctuating officialrate is about 1.36 pounds to the dollar.    The officials said part of the debt would be paid inexports of goods such as textiles, leather and furniture.    Egypt wants to settle the debt problem partly to open thedoor for new cooperation, mainly in modernising Soviet-builtsteel, aluminium and fertiliser plants under a five-yeardevelopment plan ending June 30 1992.    Egypt, which already imports Soviet coal, wood, newsprintand glass, also wanted a debt deal to allow purchases ofcurrently blocked spare parts for its ageing Soviet militaryhardware, the officials said.    An estimated 65 pct of Egypt's arsenal is still made up ofSoviet-supplied equipment, one official said.    Cairo stopped repaying Moscow for arms purchases in 1977when then-president Anwar Sadat broke with its long-standingally and turned to the U.S.. REUTER
TAIWAN SAYS U.S. WANTS TAIWAN DOLLAR TO APPRECIATE The United States wants Taiwan'scurrency to appreciate faster to reduce Taiwan's trade surpluswith the U.S., A senior trade official said.    Board of Foreign Trade director Vincent Siew told reporterson Saturday U.S. Officials told him in Washington last weekthat unless Taiwan allowed its dollar to rise faster it wouldface retaliation.    Siew returned from Washington on Friday after the U.Sresponded to Taiwan's request to increase its textile exportquotas by promising further talks in May. Taiwan's surplus withthe U.S. Hit a record 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs in 1986.    Washington signed a three-year accord with Taipei last yearlimiting textile export growth to 0.5 pct a year.    Siew said the Taiwan dollar had risen by about 15 pctagainst the U.S. Dollar since September 1985.    It surged last week amid indications Washington was seekinga major rise in its value. It rose four cents against the U.S.Dollar on Saturday to close at 34.59.    Western trade sources told Reuters Taiwan and the U.S. Havebeen holding talks on the currency issue but added it is notclear how far Washington wants to see the Taiwan dollar rise. REUTER
BALDRIGE WARNS OF WORLD TRADE WAR DANGER U.S. Commerce Secretary MalcolmBaldrige predicted Congress will pass a reasonable trade billthis year and said tough protectionist legislation could prompta trade war.    "The mood of the Congress right now is as tough on trade asI've ever seen it in six years in Washington," Baldrige said ina weekend television interview.    "I think we'll still be able to get a reasonable trade billout in spite of that because the whole Congress is trying towork together with the administration, but there is a hardeningtrade attitude," he said.    President Reagan opposes protectionist legislation butagreed to support a trade bill when it became apparent thatopposition Democrats would pass such legislation.    However, Baldrige warned measures that would penalizetrading partners such as Japan, South Korea and Taiwan forfailing to cut their trade surpluses with the U.S. could leadto retaliation and he said he would urge Reagan to veto anysuch bill.    When asked if there is a rising danger of a worldwide tradewar, Baldrige said: "Yes, I don't think there's any questionabout that." Reuter
WEST GERMAN EXPORTS TO U.S. DROP SHARPLY West German exports to the UnitedStates fell below four billion marks worth in January for thefirst time since mid-1984, provisional Bundesbank data showed.    The figures showed exports were 3.85 billion marks inJanuary, sharply down from December's 4.40 billion and thelowest since the 3.56 billion exported to the U.S. In July1984. This compared with 4.86 billion marks in January 1986.    Total West German exports to Western industrialisedcountries also fell in January to 34.76 billion marks fromDecember's 36.45 billion, also posting the lowest monthly totalsince July 1984.    West German exports to the European Community were 21.60billion marks in January, down from 22.14 billion in Decemberand 22.94 billion in January last year, the figures showed.    Exports to developing nations and centrally-plannedeconomies also slackened.    Separately, Commerzbank AG said in a report that the focusof West German exports this year was likely to shift to Europebecause of an expected downturn in growth in the dollar area.    This was one of the strengths of West German exportscompared with Japan, which depended in large part on the U.S.,OPEC and developing country markets, it added. REUTER
BRAZIL SAYS DEBT CRISIS IS WORLD PROBLEM Brazilian Finance MinisterDilson Funaro said his country's foreign debt crisis could onlybe solved by changes in the international financial system.    Speaking to a business conference he said "It is not Brazilthat has to make adjustments with the IMF (InternationalMonetary Fund). It is the international financial communitythat is taking away resources from the developing countries."    "The crisis is not in Brazil, a country that has had thethird biggest trade surplus ...In the past two years Brazil hadremitted 24 billion dlrs in debt servicing and received onlytwo billion in fresh funds," he added.    Funaro said that during his recent trip to the U.S., Europeand Japan to explain Brazil's decision last month to suspendinterest payments on 68 billion dlrs of commercial debt, hestressed the country's commitment to growth.    "We need to and will make the effort (to solve the debtproblem) but we cannot make an effort that means we stopgrowing," he said, adding that political and not purelycommercial solutions were needed to the debt crisis.    Brazil, whose 108 billion dlr foreign debt is the largestin the developing world, has been under pressure from officialand private creditors to work out an economic adjustmentprogram with the IMF to combat rocketing inflation and foreignpayments problems.    President Jose Sarney's government has repeatedly refusedto approach the Fund, arguing that an IMF programme would leadto recession. Funaro said that in his talks with creditors hehad tried to restore credibility in the country in the hope offinding a lasting solution to the debt problem.    "We are negotiating so that the debt question should not beone of continuous crisis."    To sustain internal growth Brazil would have to import moremachinery and equipment this year and export fewer rawmaterials. The country was thus targetting a fall in thisyear's trade surplus to 8.0 billion dlrs from 1986's 9.5billion.    Domestically, Funaro said economies had led to a reductionin the public sector deficit to 2.7 pct of gross domesticproduct in 1986, the lowest for many years and that this shouldfall to 1.5 pct this year. REUTER
CANADA PRIME MINISTER SAYS A MAJOR TRADE DEAL EMERGING W Forum Group Inc said it hasterminated its agreement in principle to buy eight retirementliving centers in six states from Beverly Enterprises due to afailure to reach a satisfacotry definitive agreement. Reuter
 French adjusted February trade deficit 400 mln francs vs January deficit 2.5 Members of the Baltic InternationalFreight Futures Exchange (BIFFEX) are to be balloted at the endof this week on whether it will merge with the London CommodityExchange or come under a new umbrella of Baltic futuresexchanges, a BIFFEX official said.    The final decision will be left with the BIFFEX board,which will meet at the end of this month, he said.    Last week three exchanges currently trading on the BalticExchange, the London Potato Futures Association, the GAFTA SoyaBean Meal Futures Association and the London Meat FuturesExchange, instructed legal advisers to implement a merger. Reuter
CANADA'S MULRONEY SAYS U.S. TRADE DEAL NEARS Prime Minister Brian Mulroney said"significant progress" was being made in trade talks with theUnited States and a profile of a major deal was emerging.    Opening a debate on free trade in the House of Commons,Mulroney said an accord would create thousands of jobs inCanada and bring greater economic prosperity to both countries.    Mulroney, who offered few new details of the talks, saidthat while the negotiations were risky and difficult, "aprofile of a major trade deal is now emerging."  In a 50-minute address, Mulroney made an often passionatedefense of the initiative that he said would give poorer areasof the country a major economic boost.    "Because of our trading patterns over a period of decades,we are in the process of building two Canadas -- one that isrich and promising, one that is under-developed andunder-employed," said Mulroney.    "What we want is to make sure Newfoundlanders and BritishColumbians and Albertans and others, that they get theirchance. They must be given the opportunity to trade their wayto prosperity."    Few detials have been released on the trade talks whichwere launched nearly two years ago between the two nations thatare each others most important trading partners.    Recent published reports in Canada, quoting senior tradesources, said the countries were close to reaching a trade dealand it will involve eliminating border trariffs and manynon-tariff barriers over the next 10 to 12 years.    It has been reported a key stumbling block in the talks isa Canadian proposal to find a new way to settle trade disputes,something that would give Canada protection from Washington'stough trade remedy laws.    But Mulroney, sharply critical of protectionist sentimentin the U.S, said Canada was a "fair trader" and denied thegovernment was pursuing the deal to win unfair access to theAmerican market.    He said a trade deal must bring benefits to both sides.    "We recognize a good deal must be a fair deal, one that isfair to both sides," Mulroney said. Reuter
FRANCE REDUCES TRADE DEFICIT IN FEBRUARY France posted a seasonally adjusted tradedeficit of 400 mln francs in February after a 2.5 billion francdeficit in January, the Finance Ministry said.    For the first two months of this year the trade deficit, ona seasonally adjusted basis, was 2.9 billion francs.    Unadjusted, the February deficit was 2.4 billion francs andthe two-month cumulative deficit 8.1 billion, the ministry saidin a statement.    The Ministry said February exports totalled 73.8 billionfrancs, an 8.9 pct increase on January, while imports totalled74.3 billion francs, an increase of 5.8 pct.    Farm and food trade showed a two billion franc surplusafter a surplus of 2.4 billion in January.    The energy deficit was reduced to 6.5 billion francs fromeight billion in January, while industrial trade showed asurplus of 1.4 billion francs against only 800 mln francs inJanuary. REUTER
NORWAY APPROVES TRADE BAN AGAINST SOUTH AFRICA Norway's parliament has approved anextensive trade ban against South Africa but left shipowners akey loophole through which controversial oil shipments onNorwegian tankers may continue, government officials said.    The unilateral boycott, proposed by Norway's minorityLabour government, gives domestic companies until lateSeptember to cut remaining trade ties with South Africa andNamibia.    "The legislation discussed today must not be seen as anisolated measure, but as a step in an international process,"Norway's foreign minister Thorvald Stoltenberg told parliament.    Government officials said they hope the move will intensifyinternational pressure against the Pretoria regime's apartheidpolicies. Sweden, in a similar move last week, promised to haltall trade with South Africa by October.    Norway's boycott, although forbidding crude oil shipmentsto South Africa on Norwegian-owned tankers, makes an importantexception for ships whose final destination is decided whilethey are at sea.    Oil cargoes are often resold by trades after loading,making it difficult for shipowners to know their ships' finalport at the start of a voyage.    Critics said the bill leaves the door open for continuedoil shipments to South Africa. They called for strictersanctions to stop all Norwegian shipping to South Africa.    Norwegian tankers supplied South Africa with about 30 pctof its crude imports during the early 1980s, but the trade hasdropped sharply to just one cargo in the last three months,trade ministry officials said.    The latest trade figures show Norwegian imports from SouthAfrica dropped 36 pct to 160 mln crowns during the first eightmonths of 1986, while exports plunged 52 pct to 265 mln crownsfrom the year-ago figure.    "Many would say that the law has already had its effectbecause of the dramatic drop in trade between South African andNorway," Foreign Ministry spokesman Per Paust told Reuters.    "Norwegian business at an early stage started restructuringits relations with South Africa in anticipation of the law.    "No one has said the boycott will have a profound effect oninternational trade with South Africa, but it is an importantpolitical statement by the Norwegian government," he said.    The Oslo government said it will review the effects of theban on Norwegian industry after two years and may proposeamendments if industry can show it is hurt by the law.    Norwegian imports from South Africa are limited mainly tohigh-grade manganese and coppernickle ores used in itferro-alloys and light metals industries.    Metals manufacturers estimate some 2,000 jobs could beaffected by the boycott is suitable replacements for these oresare not found.    The legislation now goes on to the upper house for formalratification later this week, parliamentarians said. Reuter
TRADE INTERESTS READY FOR BATTLE IN U.S. HOUSE U.S. lawmakers are gearing up for ashowdown between protectionists and free traders as a majortrade bill winds its way through committees to a vote by thefull House of Representatives in late April.    In a move to toughen U.S. enforcement of trade laws, a keyHouse subcommittee last week approved a toned-down version oflegislation to require President Reagan to retaliate againstforeign countries that follow unfair trade practices.    The bill will be the cornerstone of congressional effortsto restore competitiveness of American industries and turnaround last year's record 169 billion dlrs trade deficit.    Generally, the bill's provisions toughen U.S. enforcementof trade laws.    The trade bill forces the administration to act rapidly oncomplaints of unfair trade practices, such as dumping productsin the United States at prices below cost of production. Italso forces the administration to act rapidly when an industrycomplains that a surge in imports threatens its existence.    In writing the bill, the subcommittee rejected calls fortrade relief for specific industries such as textiles.    Several lawmakers have argued the new trade bill made toomany concessions to Reagan and said they intend to backamendments to "get tough" with countries that violate tradeagreements or keep out U.S. products.    But congressmen known for their allegiance to free tradesaid the bill ties Reagan's hands too much in trade disputesand they will seek to restore his negotiating powers.    Bill Frenzel, R-MI., said the subcommittee's bill was notone "that a free trader like me could endorse in all respects,"but he emphasized there was a consensus among lawmakers to worktoward a bill Reagan and Republicans would ultimately endorse.    The goal of trade legislation was "to make our trade policystronger without violating our international trade agreements,"he said.    In a key concession made at the urging of Ways and MeansCommittee chairman Dan Rostenkowski, D-IL., the tradesubcommittee backed off a requirement that would have forcedReagan to impose automatically quotas or tariffs on importsfrom countries that engage in unfair trade practices.    It also agreed the president may waive any retaliation ifit would hurt the U.S. economy.    Rostenkowski insisted the more moderate approach wasnecessary if the House wanted to pass a bill Reagan would signinto law.    Reagan last year blocked Senate consideration of a toughHouse trade bill he branded as protectionist and this year heonly reluctantly agreed to support a trade bill when he sawDemocratic leaders were determined to pass such legislation.    White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater told reporters latelast week that the administration still did not like some ofthe bill's provisions, but he added, "Generally we feel verygood about the bipartisan consideration of the tradelegislation. I think we are progressing very well."    The first battle will take place next week when the fullHouse Ways and Means Committee considers an amendment by Rep.Richard Gephardt, D-MO., to force countries like Japan, SouthKorea and Taiwan to cut their trade surpluses with the U.S.    The subcommittee limited the Gephardt plan to provide onlythat the existence of a large trade surplus with the UnitedStates will trigger an investigation of unfair trade practices,but would not automatically set off retaliation.    Organized labor has pressed lawmakers for more relief fromimports where jobs have been lost to foreign competition.    AFL-CIO president Lane Kirkland this year angered theadministration when he said any trade bill Reagan would signwould not be worth passage in Congress.    But Rostenkowski set the tone of the trade debate bysaying, "I'm not trying to write legislation to please LaneKirkland. I'm trying to write legislation that will be signedby the president."    Rep. Ed Jenkins (D-GA.) intends to push separately a billto protect the domestic textile and shoe industry, an aidesaid. Reagan vetoed a similar measure last year.    House Speaker Jim Wright of Texas, one of the mostinfluential proponents of aid for specific industries beset bylow-priced foreign competition, last week renewed his call forimport relief for the domestic oil industry and announced hissupport for a Senate plan to trigger a temporary oil importtariff when imports reach half of domestic consumption. Reuter
ETHIOPIA MINISTER SEES AFRICA DEBT PAYMENT PROBLEM Africa may have to follow Brazil inhalting foreign debt payments unless industrialised nations areprepared to be more flexible in trade and economic policy,Ethiopian trade minister Tesfay Dinka said.    Growing protectionism and declining commodity prices hadcaused a major deterioration in the export earnings of alldeveloping countries, he said in an opening speech to a meetingof African trade ministers in Addis Ababa.    Unless there was an early improvement in developingcountries' terms of trade "the only choice is to follow theroute that Brazil appears to have taken," Tesfay said.   The two-day meeting of delegates from 50 African states wascalled to work out a consensus ahead of the Group of 77ministerial meeting in Havana next month, when the developingcountries will debate their strategy in economic negotiationswith the West.    Tesfay accused the West of intransigence in the negotiationof recent commodity agreements.    The failure of the International Coffee Organisation toagree on the reintroduction of export quotas would mean "severalAfrican countries will not have the foreign exchange to importessential items," he said.    Coffee accounts for 60 pct of Ethiopian exports and therecent fall in world coffee prices has sharply reduced thecountry's foreign exchange earnings.    Adebayo Adedeji, the executive secretary of the U.N.Economic Commission for Africa, told the meeting that there wasan increasing net outflow of resources from Africa.    He blamed this on high interest rates, debt servicing andthe repatriation of profits by foreign investors.    Africa paid 13 billion dlrs to service its total foreigndebt last year and by 1990 annual service payments are expectedto rise to between 16 and 24 billion, Adedeji said.    He accused industrialised countries of failing to providemore resources to implement the U.N. Program for Africa'seconomic recovery and development, despite Africa's willingnessto raise two thirds of the capital from domestic sources.    The U.N. Program, approved last year, calls for 128 billiondlrs of economic investment in Africa over five years.    Western donors were asked to contribute 46 billion dlrs,with the rest being raised from local resources, but Adedejisaid the donors had not responded as hoped.   In view of this poor response, he said "it is possible thatby the year 2,000 nearly all African countries, except a few,will be categorised as least developed countries."    At present, 27 of Africa's 50-odd states are officiallylisted in this category. REUTER
BRAZIL TRADE SURPLUS RISES IN FEBRUARY The trade surplus doubled infebruary to 261 mln dlrs from January's 129 mln, but was  belowthe 628 mln of February 1986, official figures show.    The director of the Banco do Brasil's foreign tradedepartment (CACEX), Roberto Fendt, told reporters the upturn inFebruary confirmed a rising trend in exports, which totalled1.53 billion dlrs against 1.26 billion in January and, afterexcluding coffee and oil derivitives, was only slightly belowthe same month last year.    Coffee earnings were down to 110 mln dlrs against 295 mlnin February 1986 because of lower prices, he added.    Fendt said that although the February results were lowerthan the average expected for the rest of the year, thegovernment's target of an eight-billion-dlr surplus for 1987should be achieved. This would compare with a 1986 surplus of9.5 billion dlrs.    Exports this year are expected to total 22.5 billion dlrsand imports 14.5 billion, he added. In 1986 exports totalled22.4 billion dlrs and imports 12.9 billion.    Fendt said the rise in imports in February to 1.27 billiondlrs from 1.12 billion in February last year was in line withgovernment plans to foster economic growth.    Fendt said that imports were running at levels well abovethe traditional average for Brazil.    In the first two months of the year imports, excluding oiland wheat totalled, 1.8 billion dlrs against 1.47 billion inthe same 1986 period.    This rise in import demand reflected the needs of Brazilianindustry to equip to raise production and is perfectlycompatible with the government's program for economic growth,Fendt added. Reuter
BRAZIL'S TRADE SURPLUS DOUBLED IN FEBRUARY Brazil's trade surplus doubledin February to 261 mln dlrs from January's 129 mln but was wellbelow the 628 mln dlrs of February last year, official figuresshow.    Director of the Banco do Brasil's foreign trade department(CACEX), Roberto Fendt, told reporters the upturn in Februaryconfirmed a rising trend in exports which totalled 1.53 billiondlrs against 1.26 billion in January and, after excludingcoffee and oil derivatives, was only slightly below the samemonth last year.    Coffee earnings were down to 110 mln dlrs against 295 mlnin February, 1986, because of lower prices, he added.    Fendt said although the February results were lower thanthe average expected for the rest of the year, the government'starget of an eight billion dlr surplus for 1987 should beachieved. This would compare with a 1986 surplus of 9.5 billiondlrs.    Exports this year are expected to total 22.5 billion dlrsand imports 14.5 billion, he added. In 1986 exports totalled22.4 billion dlrs and imports 12.9 billion.    Fendt said the rise in imports in February to 1.27 billiondlrs from 1.12 billion in February last year was in line withgovernment plans to foster economic growth.    Fendt said imports were running at levels well above thetraditional average for Brazil.    Imports in the first two months of the year, excluding oiland wheat, totalled 1.8 billion dlrs against 1.47 billion inthe same 1986 period.    This rise reflected industry's need for equipment to raiseproduction and is perfectly compatible with the government'sprogram for economic growth, Fendt added. Reuter
BRITISH FARM MINISTER ATTACKS SUBSIDIES Farm subsidies and protectionistmoves threaten healthy trade on both sides of the Atlantic,Michael Jopling, British minister of Agriculture, Fisheries andFood, warned.    "It would not be sensible to provoke another dispute betweenEurope and the United States," Jopling said in remarks preparedfor an evening speech.    "But some things are clear and they apply on both sides ofthe Atlantic. We cannot continue to pile up stocks while worlddemand shrinks," he said.    "Governments must not operate farm policies as if they werepurely domestic affairs with no impact on others. They alsohave to recognize that they cannot in the long run develop ahealthy and stable farm sector on the basis of protectionismand excessive subisdies.    "And above all, Europe and the United States have too manycommon interests to make it worthwhile to engage in trade warsand competitive export subsidies which end by benefitting noone." He added, "It is crucial that the United States and theEuropean Community remain friends."    Jopling, who is a member of the EC agriculture committee,was in Indiana to visit several farms prior to talks with U.S.officials in Washington later this week.    Jopling also criticized a recent proposal still underconsideration by the EC for a tax on vegetable and fish oils.    He said his government would oppose such a move because "Wedo not think it is correct that a shortage of funds to support(EC) farmers should be alleviated by raising money at theconsumer's expense." Reuter
EC WARNS U.S. AND JAPAN ON TRADE TENSIONS The European Community (EC) deliveredwarnings to both Japan and the United States over tradefrictions which have hit relations between the Community andits main trading partners.    EC foreign ministers meeting here issued a statementdeploring Japan's continued trade imbalance and appealed forgreater effort by the country to open its markets.    Ministers also issued a statement saying they weredisturbed by moves in the U.S. to limit imports of textiles andwarned that the Community would react to any such moves.    EC External Trade Commissioner, Willy De Clercq has alreadywritten to his U.S. counterpart, special U.S. TradeRepresentative Clayton Yeutter, outlining the EC's concerns.    The ministers' said they were "very disturbed" by the U.S.moves, adding, "the adoption of such measures would not fail tohave a negative effect on the process of multilateralnegotiations just started as well as on bilateral relations."    Any unilateral U.S. moves would leave the EC no option butto react according to the laws of the world trade body, theGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), they said.    In a separate statement on Japan, the EC ministers saidthey "deplore the continued aggravation of the imbalance intrade ... (and) expect Japan to open up its market more."    The statement added that the EC continued to insist thatthe Japanese government must boost imports and stimulatedemand.    Ministers also called on the European Commission to preparea report on U.S.-Japanese trade for July this year to enablethem to take action where necessary.    One diplomat said the call for a report showed ministerswere determined not to let the Japanese question drop. "It wilbe back on the table again and again," the diplomat said.    De Clercq told journalists, "There is a certain nervousness,a growing impatience within the Community on trade relationswith Japan."    But diplomats said the Community is keen to continuetalking with Tokyo to try and solve the problem rather thanembark on a costly and damaging trade war. Reuter
MARKET WELCOMES LOWER AUSTRALIAN PAYMENTS DEFICIT The Australian dollar rose more than 40points and money market interest rates retreated on the betterthan expected improvement in the February current accountdeficit, but economists and dealers were cautious aboutidentifying it as the start of a downward trend.    The current account deficit narrowed to 750 mln dlrs inFebruary from 1.23 billion in January. It hit 13.82 billiondlrs in 1985/86 to end-June.    The currency jumped to 0.6858/63 U.S. Dlrs and traded ashigh as 0.6875 before retreating to around 0.6864/69.    "It's got 69 cents written all over it," one dealer said.    Foreign exchange dealers said some buyers had gone long onthe dollar expecting a lower figure and sold it down about 30points to 0.6820 U.S. Dlrs before the release.    The 750 mln dlr deficit was at the lower end of forecastsand analysts said the market would welcome any figure below onebillion dlrs for March.    Banque National de Paris <BNPP.A> senior dealer PeterNicolls cautioned that in the long term the currency andinterest rates were too high for import substitution and exportindustries.    Nicolls said he expected the dollar to go as high as 0.6875and perhaps to 69 cents tomorrow.    <Lloyds Bank NZA Ltd> chief economist Will Buttrose saidthe 42 mln dlr trade surplus was encouraging as were imports at2.77 billion dlrs, down from 2.99 billion in January.    But he warned that the outlook for rural and iron and coalexports remained poor. "We should remember we are payingsomething like seven to eight billion dollars simply to serviceour foreign debt and that is not going to go away in the nearterm," Buttrose said.    Buttrose said he expected a March deficit of around 900 mlndlrs, and added "Any figure under a billion dollars will beacceptable (to the markets)."    ANZ Banking Group Ltd <ANZA.S> senior economist Ian Littlesaid the big question was whether the improvement in exportscould be sustained. February FOB exports rose to 2.82 billiondlrs from a revised 2.74 billion in January.    Interest rates responded quickly to the deficit news, with90-day bank bill yields falling to 16.42-16.45 pct from earlyhighs of 16.50 and yields yesterday as high as 16.65.    Longer term yields fell with 10-year bonds at 13.66/68 pctfrom 13.74 before the release and highs of 13.87 yesterday.    The stock market was easier at midsession but brokers saidthe current account data had little impact on trading. REUTER
TAIWAN 1986 BALANCE OF PAYMENTS SURPLUS IS RECORD Taiwan's balance of payments surpluswidened to a record 16.62 billion U.S. Dlrs in calendar 1986from 9.35 billion in 1985, the central bank said.    A bank official attributed the increase mainly to Taiwan'sgrowing trade surplus, which increased to a record 16.8 billionU.S. Dlrs in 1986 from 11.2 billion in 1985.    He said the deficit on invisible trade narrowed to 740 mlnU.S. Dlrs from 1.97 billion.    Invisible earnings rose to 6.77 billion from 5.09 billionwhile invisible spending climbed to 7.51 billion from 7.06billion, he said. REUTER
EC WARNS U.S. AND JAPAN ON TRADE TENSIONS The European Community (EC) yesterdaywarned Japan and the United States, its main trading partners,that friction over trade issues is affecting the EC's relationswith both countries.    EC foreign ministers issued a statement deploring Japan'scontinued trade imbalance and appealed for the country to makea greater effort to open up its markets. They also said theywere disturbed by a draft bill before the U.S. Congress thatwould impose permanent quotas on textile imports and wereprepared to react. The U.S. Administration has alreadydistanced itself from the bill.    EC External Trade Commissioner Willy De Clercq has writtento his U.S. Counterpart, Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter,outlining the EC's concerns.    The statement said ministers were very disturbed by U.S.Moves towards protectionism. "The adoption of such measureswould not fail to have a negative effect on the process ofmultilateral negotiations just started, as well as on bilateralrelations," it said.    Any unilateral U.S. Moves would leave the EC no option butto react according to the laws of the General Agreement onTariffs and Trade, it said.    In a separate statement on Japan, the EC ministers saidthey "deplore the continued aggravation of the imbalance intrade (and) expect Japan to open up its market more."    The statement said the EC would continue to insist thatJapan boost imports and stimulate domestic demand.    Ministers also called on the EC Commission to prepare areport on U.S.-Japanese trade for July this year to enable themto take appropriate action where necessary.    One diplomat said the call for a report showed ministerswere determined not to let the Japanese question drop. "It willbe back on the table again and again," the diplomat said.    De Clercq, talking to journalists during the meeting, said,"There is a certain nervousness, a growing impatience within theCommunity concerning trade relations with Japan."    The EC is not satisfied with Japan's inability to cut itstrade surplus, and the Commission has adopted a tough approachon imports of goods such as Japanese photocopiers, where it hasimposed 20 pct anti-dumping duties.    But diplomats said the EC is keen to negotiate with Tokyoto solve the problem rather than embark on a costly anddamaging trade war, and the ministers called for morecooperation with Japan in industry and research. REUTER
S.KOREA SAYS JAPAN COMPLAINS TO GATT ON TRADE PLAN Japan has complained to the secretariatof the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) that SouthKorea's five-year plan to cut its trade deficit with Japanbreaks GATT rules, Trade Ministry officials here said.    They said Japan submitted a report earlier this monthalleging South Korea's plan to import less from Japan and morefrom the U.S. And elsewhere was tantamount to creatingnon-tariff trade barriers.    South Korea unveiled the plan in November. It said it hopedto narrow its trade deficit with Japan to two billion dlrs by1991.    South Korea's trade deficit with Japan was a record 5.45billion dlrs in 1986, and rose to 752 mln dlrs in the first twomonths of 1987 from 727 mln in the same 1986 period.    The plan envisages giving incentives to importers not toimport Japanese goods, and to exporters to sell more to Japan.    The officials said they believed the Japanese action, onestep short of filing a suit, was designed to bring South Koreato the negotiating table and stop the plan.    The Seoul government wants Tokyo to ease various importrestrictions and simplify customs inspections for South Koreangoods to help reduce the trade deficit. REUTER
JAPAN SAYS U.S.-JAPAN MICROCHIP PACT WORKING Japanese officials sought to convince theU.S. That a U.S.-Japan pact on microchip trade is working aheadof an April 1 deadline set by the U.S. For them to prove theircase.    "We are implementing the agreement in good faith and thesituation does not run counter to the pact," Osamu Watanabe,Director of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry's(MITI) Americas and Oceanic Division, told foreign reporters.    "The effects of the measures we have taken and are takingare emerging in the market place," he said.    U.S. Trade officials have repeatedly accused Japanesemicrochip makers of violating the pact by continuing to sell atbelow cost in markets outside Japan and the United States.    The agreement, signed last September, aimed at haltingpredatory Japanese pricing policies and increasing U.S.Semiconductor firms' access to the Japanese market.    The comments by MITI officials followed a call by PrimeMinsiter Yasuhiro Nakasone to clear up any misunderstandings onthe U.S. Side about the pact, Watanabe said.    Yukio Honda, director of MITI's Industrial ElectronicsDivision, denied that Japanese chipmakers were selling at belowcost in third countries.    MITI's call to Japanese chip makers last month to cutproduction of key memory chips in the first quarter of thisyear has begun to dry up the source of cheap chips for sale inthe non-regulated grey market, Honda said.    "The grey market exports from Japan are shrinking now, butin contrast U.S. And South Korean companies are expandingmarket share because of their cheaper prices," Honda said.    MITI plans to take further steps to reduce the excesssupply of inexpensive chips which developed in Japan after thepact was formed because of a slump in Japanese semiconductorexports to the United States, he added.    The ministry will soon release its supply-demand guidelinesfor the second quarter and suggested production volumes arelikely to be lower than that for the first quarter, he said.    Despite businessmen's ingenuity in finding ways around anyartificial controls, regulation of supply and demand shouldbring positive results, Watanabe said. "I am optimistic," headded. REUTER
LOOPHOLE FOR TANKERS IN NORWAY'S S. AFRICA BAN Norway's parliament has approved anextensive trade ban against South Africa but left shipowners akey loophole through which controversial oil shipments onNorwegian tankers may continue, government officials said.    The unilateral boycott gives domestic companies until lateSeptember to cut trade ties with South Africa and Namibia.    Although forbidding crude oil shipments to South Africa onNorwegian-owned tankers, the boycott makes a crucial exceptionfor ships whose final destination is decided while at sea. Asoil cargoes are often resold after loading, critics said thedoor will be left open for continued shipments to South Africa.    Norwegian tankers supplied South Africa with about 30 pctof its crude oil imports during the early 1980s, but the tradehas dropped sharply to just one cargo in the last three months,trade ministry officials said.    The latest trade figures show Norwegian imports from SouthAfrica dropped 36 pct to 160 mln crowns during the first eightmonths of 1986, while exports plunged 52 pct to 265 mln crownsfrom the year-ago figure.    The boycott legislation now goes to the upper house forformal ratification later this week, parliamentarians said. REUTER
EC WARNS U.S. AND JAPAN ON TRADE TENSIONS The European Community (EC) yesterdaywarned Japan and the United States, its main trading partners,that friction over trade issues is affecting the EC's relationswith both countries.    EC foreign ministers issued a statement deploring Japan'scontinued trade imbalance and appealed for the country to makea greater effort to open up its markets. They also said theywere disturbed by a draft bill before the U.S. Congress thatwould impose permanent quotas on textile imports and wereprepared to react. The U.S. Administration has alreadydistanced itself from the bill.    EC External Trade Commissioner Willy De Clercq has writtento his U.S. Counterpart, Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter,outlining the EC's concerns.    The statement said ministers were very disturbed by U.S.Moves towards protectionism. "The adoption of such measureswould not fail to have a negative effect on the process ofmultilateral negotiations just started, as well as on bilateralrelations," it said.    Any unilateral U.S. Moves would leave the EC no option butto react according to the laws of the General Agreement onTariffs and Trade, it said.    In a separate statement on Japan, the EC ministers saidthey "deplore the continued aggravation of the imbalance intrade (and) expect Japan to open up its market more."    The statement said the EC would continue to insist thatJapan boost imports and stimulate domestic demand.    Ministers also called on the EC Commission to prepare areport on U.S.-Japanese trade for July this year to enable themto take appropriate action where necessary.    One diplomat said the call for a report showed ministerswere determined not to let the Japanese question drop. "It willbe back on the table again and again," the diplomat said.    De Clercq, talking to journalists during the meeting, said,"There is a certain nervousness, a growing impatience within theCommunity concerning trade relations with Japan."    But diplomats said the EC is keen to negotiate with Tokyoto solve the problem rather than embark on a costly anddamaging trade war, and the ministers called for morecooperation with Japan in industry and research. Reuter
JAPAN ALERTS GATT TO SOUTH KOREA IMPORT PLAN Japan told the General Agreement onTariffs and Trade that South Korea's five-year importdiversification plan violated the spirit of the world tradegoverning body, a Foreign Ministry spokesman said.    The notification came in Japan's answer to a recent GATTquestionnaire on unfair trade practices, the spokesman said.    In the five-year plan, which starts this year, South Koreaaims to reduce its dependency on Japan as a source of importedgoods and to increase imports from the U.S. And Europe.    Japan's move came after several unsuccessful bilateralnegotiations on the plan, the spokesman said. "The notificationdoes not represent anything resembling a formal complaint, noris it intended to pressure South Korea. It is a routineprocedure followed by all other GATT member states." Reuter
U.S. CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT RECORD 36.84 BILLION DLRS IN 4TH  Sterling Inc said it intends tofile for an offering of 1,500,000 common shares, including500,000 shares to be sold by shareholders.    It said proceedsd will be used to reduce bank debt.    The company said the sale is expected to be completedfollowiong a special shareholders' meeting planned formid-April. Reuter
U.S. CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT 36.84 BILLION DLRS The U.S. current account deficitwidened to a record 36.84 billion dlrs on a balance of paymentsbasis in the October-December fourth quarter of 1986 from arevised 35.29 billion dlrs in the third quarter, the CommerceDepartment said.    Previously, the department said the third-quarter deficitwas 36.28 billion dlrs.    For the full year 1986, the current account, a broadmeasure of trade performance, was in deficit a record 140.57billion dlrs after a 117.68 billion dlr deficit in 1985.    The department said an increase in the merchandise tradedeficit during the fourth quarter to 38.4 billion dlrs from37.1 billion dlrs in the third quarter was the main reason forthe worsening deficit.    Net service receipts declined to 5.5 billion dlrs in thefinal quarter from six billion dlrs in the third quarter.    The current account includes trade in merchandise andservices as well as U.S. financial transactions with the restof the world.    The department said the merchandise trade deficit for allof 1986 grew to 147.7 billion from 124.4 billion dlrs in 1985.    Net service receipts were 22.3 billion dlrs in 1986,compared with 21.7 billion dlrs in 1985, the department said.    Net unilateral transfers during the fourth quarter lastyear, covering foreign aid and government pensions, were downto 3.9 billion dlrs from 4.2 billion dlrs in the third quarterbecause of fewer U.S. government grants to Mideast countries.    Liabilities to foreigners reported by U.S. banks rose 35.3billion dlrs between October and December after increasing 30.1billion dlrs in the third quarter.    For the full year, these liabilities grew 77.4 billion dlrsafter rising by 40.4 billion dlrs in 1985.    The department said inflows were boosted in the fourthquarter by international activities of Japanese banks andstrong demand within the United States to finance acquisitions.    Net foreign sales of U.S. Treasury securities by foreignerswere 2.7 billion dlrs in the quarter after purchases of 500 mlndlrs in the third quarter.    Net foreign purchases of securities other than U.S.Treasury securities in the fourth quarter were 11.8 billiondlrs, compared with 17.2 billion dlrs in the third quarter.    For all 1986, foreign purchases of securities excludingU.S. Treasury securities were a record 70.7 billion dlrs,surpassing the previous record 50.9 billion dlr total in 1985.   Claims on foreigners reported by U.S. banks in the fourthquarter rose 29.9 billion dlrs after a 19.3 billion dlrthird-quarter increase.    U.S. sales of foreign securities rose to 2.7 billion dlrsfrom 300 mln dlrs in the third quarter because of a sharpselloff of foreign stocks and bonds, the department said.    Outflows for U.S. direct investment abroad fell to 5.7billion dlrs from eight billion dlrs in the third quarter.    Foreign direct investment in the United States increased14.4 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter, compared with 5.6billion dlrs in the previous quarter, because of stepped-upacquisitions, the department said.    Foreign official assets in the United States increased 800mln dlrs between October and December after rising 15.4 billiondlrs in the third quarter.    For the full year 1986, foreign official assets grew 33.4billion dlrs after a 1985 decrease of 1.9 billion dlrs asforeign monetary authorities intervened heavily in exchangemarkets late in the year as the dollar fell, commerce said. Reuter
DUTCH OFFICIAL WARNS OF MORE TRADE CONFLICTS Already strained relations betweenthe U.S. And the European Community (EC) are likely to getworse before they get better, director general of the DutchEconomics Ministry's foreign affairs division Frans Engeringsaid.    Speaking at an American Chamber of Commerce lunch in TheHague, Engering noted the developing history of crises oversteel, citrus and pasta, and warned of more to come.    "I consider the strident tone of US declarations on Airbusill-advised, and the EC fats and oils tax proposal a dangerousprovocation," he said. "I feel that we shall probably have todeal with quite a few more crises in the foreseeable future."    Not only is the US Congress clearly very determined to getthe American balance of payments into better shape, but therisks of brinkmanship are all the greater because the EC hasits own constraints in meeting outside pressure, Engeringnoted.    "If we ask ourselves whether it is perhaps inevitable thatwe keep pushing each other to the brink of actual trade war,then I think the answer is probably yes," he said.    In order to reduce these tensions, decision-making in theEC must become less self-centred, and the US Administrationwill have to exercise the authority to convince Congress andpressure groups of the need for accommodation, he added. Reuter
U.S. TREASURY ANNOUNCES OECD TIED-AID PACT U.S. Treasury Secretary James Bakersaid an agreement has been reached by members of theOrganization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) tocontrol the unfair trade practice of using tied aid to promotetrade.    He said in a statement the agreement culminates the Reaganadministration's effot to negotiate a virtual end to exportcredit subsidies.    The practice of other governments using tied aid or mixedcredits to promote exports has cost the United States lost jobsand lost exports, the Treasury said.    The agreement to be implemented in two stages by July, 1988would ban tied aid credit among industrialized countries andplace limits on permitted aid by developing countries.    It would also reduce export credits that do not involve aidand reduce credit subsidies permitted for relatively poorcountries, the Treasury said.    Baker said the agreement imposes particular sacrifices onJapan and praised Japan's willingness to accept the pact as ademonstration of the Japanese government's willingness to takeconcrete steps to resolve important trade issues. Reuter
OECD AGREES EXPORT CREDIT REFORMS The western industrialised nations haveagreed reforms in rules by which they provide credit forexports to developing countries, the Organisation for EconomicCooperation and Development said.    The reforms tighten the rules for the use of foreign aid tosubsidise export credits in so-called "mixed credits," the OECDsaid.    The agreement, to be implemented in two stages in July thisyear and July 1988, means the minimum aid component in mixedcredits will be raised to 35 pct from 25 pct, and to 50 pct forcredits covering exports to the world's least developednations.    Additionally, a new formula will be used for calculatingthe aid element in mixed credits, to take account of differentinterest rates in the exporting countries, the 24-nation OECD,which hosted the reform negotiations, said.    Minimum interest rates for officially subsidised tradeloans have also been revised with the aim of cutting thesubsidies, and ending them completely on loans to relativelyrich developing countries by July next year.    The reforms follow several years of pressure by the U.S. Tostop competitors, notably France and Japan, using foreign aidto subsidise exports, putting U.S. Firms at a disadvantage.    OECD officials said the agreement was based on aprovisional accord reached in January subject to ratificationby member governments. Some governments, including Austria, hadlinked their final approval to other trade credit issues whichwould be discussed at a meeting here in mid-April, they added.    By raising the minimum amount of aid required in mixedcredits the agreement aims to make such hidden subsidies toocostly for frequent use.    "A major loophole in the General Agreement on Tariffs andTrade has been closed today," a senior U.S. Official herecommented. REUTER
UK TRADE WARY OF HIGHER EC GRAIN LEVY The European Community may decide toincrease the cereals co-responsibility levy and extend itsscope to cover cereal substitutes if the Commission's 1987/88farm price package is opposed by member states, Edgar Pye,vice-president of the British agricultural merchants'association UKASTA, said.    At the moment the Commission is proposing the rate of levyremain unchanged at three pct - but Pye, addressing a feedmanufacturers' dinner in Glasgow, said this could change if itscontroversial plans to cut cereal prices and introduce an oilsand fats tax are blocked    Pye said UKASTA would continue to fight the cereals levy"tooth and nail."    However, a test case in the European Court of Justicecontesting the legality of the current regulation applying thelevy, which is being backed by the EC feed manufacturers'organisation FEFAC, was not now expected to be heard until theend of 1987, he said. Reuter
THAI TRADE DEFICIT WIDENS IN FEBRUARY Thailand's trade deficit widened to anestimated 4.7 billion baht in February from 2.1 billion inJanuary and 2.8 billion a year ago, the Bank of Thailand said.    Exports fell to around 18.9 billion baht from 20.4 billionin January compared with 17.4 billion a year ago, the banksaid.    Imports rose to 23.6 billion baht from 22.5 billion inJanuary. They were 20.2 billion in February 1986.    The bank said the trade deficit for the two months widenedto an estimated 6.8 billion baht from 5.2 billion a year ago.    February's current account showed a 1.2 billion bahtdeficit compared with 1.7 billion in January and 263 mln a yearago.    The current account for the two months posted an estimated500 mln baht surplus, down from 1.2 billion a year ago.    A surplus in the country's balance of payments narrowed to3.2 billion baht in February from 4.6 billion the previousmonth but was higher than 1.5 billion a year ago.    The bank said the balance of payments surplus for the firsttwo months of 1987 widened to 7.8 billion baht from 4.6 billionfrom the same period in 1986, while the net capital inflow roseto five billion baht from 3.1 billion. REUTER
PAKISTAN-SWEDISH GOODS EXCHANGE AGREED Pakistan and Sweden have signed acommodity exchange agreement for 88 mln dlrs each way, thePakistan government announced.    Pakistan's exports under the agreement will include rawcotton, cotton products, cotton textiles, steel products,molasses, naphtha and fresh and dried fruits.    Swedish exports to Pakistan will include medical andlaboratory equipment, electrical telecommunication equipment,diesel engine spares, mining and security equipment,road-building and construction machinery, fertilisers and palmoil. Reuter
GERMAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE LOWERS GROWTH FORECAST The DIW economic research institutesaid West German economic growth in 1987 is unlikely to reachthe 1.5 pct rate it had forecast earlier this year.    The institute, whose forecasts are more pessimistic thanthose of the other four leading German institutes, said theeconomy had passed its peak in the summer of 1986, and itsprospects had dimmed significantly since the autumn.    The DIW repeated earlier predictions that gross nationalproduct (GNP) in the first quarter of 1987 would contract inreal, seasonally adjusted terms against the weak final quarterof last year.     The DIW said that even if the economy recovers in theremaining three quarters, it was unlikely that demand andproduction would rise strongly enough to bring GNP growth up to1.5 pct.    Other institutes and economists have recently revised theirforecasts for German 1987 growth to around two pct.    In a report DIW disputed arguments by other economists thatthe economy was showing mixed development, with domestic demandhealthy but foreign demand weak.    DIW said the crucial split was between weak demand forcapital goods, and strong demand for buildings and consumergoods, not between foreign and domestic demand.    It noted that domestic demand for capital goods had beenhit in recent months by the weakness of exports, which hadcaused West German firms to scale back investment plans.    Service industries, unlike manufacturing industry, werecontinuing to do well because they relied on consumer demand,it said.    In a separate report the HWWA economic research institutein Hamburg said West Germany's real trade surplus would fallmarkedly this year.    However, the nominal trade surplus would show little changefrom 1986's record 112.2 billion marks because of a furtherimprovement in the terms of trade on average in 1987 comparedwith 1986, it said. REUTER
PERU HAS FIRST TRADE DEFICIT IN FOUR YEARS Peru registered a 16 mln dlr trade deficitin 1986, its first trade shortfall in four years, a centralbank statement said.    The figure compared with a surpluses of 1.17 billion dlrsin 1985, 1.01 billion in 1984 and 293 mln in 1983. The lasttrade deficit was a 428 mln shortfall in 1982.    Peru's exports fell to 2.51 billion dlrs last year from2.98 billion in 1985. Last year's imports were 2.53 billiondlrs against 1.81 billion dlrs in 1985. REUTER
PERU HAS FIRST TRADE DEFICIT IN FOUR YEARS Peru registered a 16 mln dlr trade deficitin 1986, its first trade shortfall in four years, a centralbank statement said.    The figure compared with a surpluses of 1.17 billion dlrsin 1985, 1.01 billion in 1984 and 293 mln in 1983. The lasttrade deficit was a 428 mln shortfall in 1982.    Peru's exports fell to 2.51 billion dlrs last year from2.98 billion in 1985. Last year's imports were 2.53 billiondlrs against 1.81 billion dlrs in 1985. Reuter
PERU SHORT-TERM TRADE LINES RISE TO 430 MLN DLRS peru's short-term foreign trade creditlines have more than doubled to 430 mln dlrs under presidentalan garcia's 20-month administration.    Central bank general manager hector neyra told reporters that many of the credits were for 90-day terms and could beused several times a year.    The trade credits stood at 210 million dollars when garciatook office on july 28, 1985, and announced foreign debtpayments would be limited to 10 pct of export earnngs.    Neyra told reuters that peru was current on interestpayments on short-term debt, including the trade credit linesand on about 750 million dollars in so-called  "working capital"credits.    Neyra did not specify the source of the trade credit lines. Reuter
PERU SHORT-TERM TRADE CREDIT UP TO 430 MLN DLRS Peru's short-term foreign trade creditlines, regarded as vital to ensure smooth foreign commercialtransactions, have more than doubled to 430 mln dollars underthe 20-month government of president Alan Garcia.    Central bank general manager Hector Neyra told reportersmany of the credits were 90-day.    Trade credits were 210 mln dlrs when Garcia took office in1985 announcing a tough stance limiting foreign debt repaymentsto 10 pct of export earnings.    Neyra told Reuters Peru was current on interest payments onshort-term debt, including trade credit lines and on about 750mln dlrs in so-called  "working capital" credits.    Trade credit lines were 880 mln dlrs in 1982, but fell in1984 when Peru stopped some payments to private foreign banks. Reuter
U.S. HOUSE PANEL VOTES TO EASE EXPORT CONTROLS A key House panel voted to greatlyease government controls on exports as several House committeesmoved rapidly toward approval of major changes in trade lawsthey hope will help solve U.S. trade woes.    The House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on InternationalEconomic Policy voted to direct the administration to cut thelist of controlled exports by 40 per cent by removing items nolonger considered important to U.S. military security.    Industries had complained they were losing sales to foreigncompetitors who were allowed to export freely products U.S.companies could not sell abroad.    The issue has been the subject of administration debate.The Commerce Department had held that unnecessary restrictionsimpeded U.S. exports while the Defense Department said currentcontrols should be retained but better administered.    Four congressional panels met today to consider portions ofa wideranging trade bill that intends to help U.S. companiessell more products abroad and to fight unfair foreign tradepractices.    Their separate proposals, some of them conflicting, will bewoven by House Democratic leaders into a final trade bill for avote by the full House in late April.    Sparked by the proposal of Fujitsu Ltd. to take controllinginterest in Schlumberger Ltd's Fairchild Semiconductor Corp.,the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on Commerce voted toexpand Reagan's authority to block foreign takeovers of U.S.companies.    Reagan would be able to block any takeover found to bedamaging to U.S. economic or national security interests.    "We are losing our semiconductors which are at the heart ofour national security," subcommittee chairman James Florio, aNew Jersey Democrat said.    The subcommittee also called for the administration toconsider retaliation against Japan for its restrictivegovernment procurement practices.    The retaliation could be triggered by a requirement thatthe administration investigate whether U.S. companies weretreated unfairly and whether they have been barred from bids onlucrative public works projects such as the eight billion dlrKansai airport construction. U.S. firms have complained theywere not allowed to bid on its construction.    At the urging of the U.S. recording industry, thesubcommittee agreed to bar imports of a new Japaneseproduct--digital audio recorders.    Meeting in closed session, the House Ways and MeansCommittee agreed to allow President Reagan to retaliate againstforeign countries that refuse to open their markets to U.S.telecommunications products.     Congressional aides said the committee also agreed U.S.companies would be allowed to press for relief from imports ofcounterfeit products made in violation of U.S. copyright andpatent laws.                                          Reuter
JAPAN MARCH INTERIM TRADE SURPLUS FALLS Japan's customs-cleared trade surplusfell to 1.89 billion dlrs in the first 10 days of March from a1.91 billion surplus a year earlier, the Ministry of Financesaid.     The March interim surplus compared with a 1.70 billion dlrsurplus in the same February period.     FOB exports in the first 10 days of March rose 5.8 pctfrom a year earlier to 5.50 billion dlrs and CIF imports rose9.7 pct to 3.61 billion.     The average yen/dollar rate used for the statistics was153.67 yen against 181.23 a year earlier. REUTER
INDONESIA SEES LIMITED CHOICES ON ECONOMY Indonesia cannot spend its way out ofrecession and has very limited economic options due to lowerworld oil prices, Central Bank governor Arifin Siregar wasquoted as saying by the official Antara news agency.    "If Indonesia spurs its economic growth too much, such asthrough expansionary monetary and budgetary policies, it mightcreate negative effects not only on price increases, but alsoon the balance of payments," he told bankers and businessmen inthe North Sumatran city of Medan.    Antara quoted him as saying Indonesia is relying on itsexport drive to help narrow its trade deficit.    Antara reported that Siregar said the government wanted tohelp boost exports from the rubber and palm oil industries,which are centered in Sumatra.    "I see Sumatra has great potential, as in the plantationsector in which family units are employed in great number," hesaid, according to the agency.    Indonesia relied on oil and gas exports for 70 pct of itsexport revenue until last year's fall in crude prices.    It has projected its current account deficit will widen toover four billion dlrs in the current financial year endingMarch 31 from 1.8 billion in 1985/86. REUTER
AUSTRALIAN EXPORTS HELPING TO BOOST GDP The strong contribution of exports tothe growth in Australia's gross domestic product (GDP) in thefourth quarter of 1986 was a significant and welcome feature ofthe data, private economists polled by Reuters said.    Real GDP rose 1.1 pct in the fourth quarter of 1986, afterrising 0.2 pct in the third quarter and falling 1.1 pct a yearearlier.    Equally significant was the decline in both private andgovernment spending, they said.    Exports of goods and services rose 13 pct in the fourthquarter, while imports rose only 2.9 pct, Statistics Bureaufigures show. Consumer spending declined 0.6 pct and governmentspending by 0.2.    Bob Edgar of the Australia and New Zealand Banking GroupLtd said the government's aim of reducing the current accountdeficit by boosting exports and lowering consumption to cutimports appeared to be working.    However, he cautioned that care must be taken to keepgrowth restrained because if it accelerated too fast importswould increase and worsen the balance of payments.    Andre Morony of Bankers Trust Australia Ltd added theresult was positive because growth was export-driven.    But he said the GDP rise came as no surprise given thegrowth in exports disclosed in other statistics.    The economists' comments were echoed by Treasurer PaulKeating in a statement issued in Canberra.    Keating said the figures showed encouraging trends for areduction in the current account deficit, notably the declinein domestic demand and the strong increase in exports.    A further 3.5 pct fall in the terms of trade in the quarterunderscored the need to continue restraint in wages, prices andpublic sector spending and borrowing to improve Australia'scompetitiveness, he said.    "It is clear that through the continued application of thatstrategy Australia will make the necessary adjustments in itsexternal accounts and return to a more sustainable growthpattern," he added. REUTER
INDIA TRADE DEFICIT FALLS India's trade deficit isprovisionally estimated at 58.34 billion rupees in the first 10months of fiscal 1986/87 ending March, compared with 70.62billion in the year ago period, the Commerce Ministry said. Exports rose in the latest period to 100.75 billion rupeesfrom the a year earlier 86.09 billion and imports to 159.09billion from 156.71 billion in the period, the figures show.    The trade deficit for all of 1986/87 is provisionallyestimated at around 70 billion rupees from an estimated record87.47 billion in 1985/86 and actual 53.18 billion in 1984/85,Commerce Minister P. Shiv Shanker told reporters last month . REUTER
CHINA, TAIWAN TRADE VIA HONG KONG FELL IN 1986 The value of trade between China andTaiwan via Hong Kong fell 13 pct to 7.45 billion H.K. Dlrs in1986 from 8.59 billion dlrs in 1985, Hong Kong's Census andStatistics Department said.    Taiwan's exports to China through Hong Kong fell to 6.33billion dlrs last year from 7.69 billion in 1985, while China'sexports rose to 1.12 billion dlrs from 904 mln dlrs.    Economists in Hong Kong told Reuters that China's controlson scarce foreign currency hurt its imports of Taiwaneseconsumer goods, such as electric fans and television sets.    Herbal medicine and textiles were among China's chiefexports to Taiwan.    Taiwan does not allow direct trade with China and indirecttrade is routed mainly through Hong Kong. REUTER
JORDAN, SUDAN SIGN 100 MLN DLR BARTER TRADE PACT Jordan and Sudan signed a barter tradeagreement under which they will exchange 100 mln dlrs' worth ofgoods a year, Sudanese officials said.    They said Sudan will export corn, sesame, peanuts, spicesand cow hides, while Jordan will export cement, tomato puree,chemicals and pharmaceuticals. Reuter
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - U.S. DEFICIT WITH NICs The U.S. trade deficit with Taiwan andKorea is expected to widen this year, despite some economic andcurrency adjustments by the two newly industrialized countries,economists said.    "The surpluses that Taiwan and Korea ran with the U.S. in1986 will get bigger. This time next year, the U.S. will bescreaming at those countries about their exports," said SteveCerier of Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co.    Taiwan is currently the third biggest exporter to the U.S.after Japan and Canada, while Korea is the seventh largest.    Faced with heightened protectionist sentiment in Congress,the Reagan administration has been stepping up the rhetoricagainst Taiwan and Korea, urging those countries to allow theircurrencies to appreciate and lift impediments to free trade.    The thrust has shifted to those newly industrializedcountries (NICs) amid signs the dollar's steep drop against thecurrencies of Japan and most EC nations -- previously the mainfocus of the U.S. drive to cut its trade gap -- is beginning toclose the competiveness gap for American goods.    U.S. Treasury secretary James Baker said recently that heexpects a reduction in Japan's trade surplus this year.    But U.S. manufacturers still are losing markets on theirown doorstep to Taiwan and Korea, whose currencies have notrisen as much as the yen and the mark. As major beneficiariesof soft oil prices and with low labor costs, Taiwanese andKorean exporters are well-placed to take up the slack.    "In 1986, the fashionable comment in Washington wasJapan-bashing. Now it's NIC-bashing," said Robert Chandross, ofLloyds Bank PLC.    Asia's four main NICs -- Hong Kong, South Korea, Singaporeand Taiwan -- accounted for almost one-fifth of the overall 170billion dlr U.S. merchandise trade deficit for 1986.    The U.S. trade gap with Taiwan rose to 15.7 billion dlrs in1986 from 13.1 billion in 1985, while the bilateral tradedeficit with South Korea grew to 7.1 billion from 4.8 billion.    And preliminary U.S. data show that the growth trend iscontinuing. The U.S. trade shortfall with Taiwan was 1.6billion dlrs in January, up 24.4 pct from a year earlier. Thegap with Korea was 700 mln dlrs, up 24.8 pct from a year ago.    Lately both nations have said they will take steps todefuse incipient trade tensions. Korea said it is choosing manyof the 122 items on which the U.S. wants it to cut importtariffs in order to deflect pressure for currency revaluation.    Still, South Korean trade minister Rha Woong Bae said lastweek that Korea would maintain a trade surplus for three tofive years as a way to cut its 44.5 billion dlr foreign debt.    For its part, Taiwan said in January that it will cuttariffs on 1,700 goods sometime in the second half of 1987 andtry to diversify exports. But vice economic minister WangChien-Shien said last month that he still does not expectTaiwan's trade surplus with the U.S. will fall in 1987.    The NICs have made deep inroads into markets for textilesand electronic goods. But Korea is raising its profile in thearea of "big-ticket" manufactured goods, notably cars.    Korea expects its auto exports -- mostly for North America-- to balloon to 675,000 units in 1987 from zero in 1985.    "The NICs' exports are almost all manufactured goods. Whentheir exports rise it hits the heart of the U.S. manufacturingbase. It cuts directly to us and to our customers," said BobWendt, manager for economic studies at Bethlehem Steel Corp.    The U.S. takes 90 pct of Korea's computer products exports,72 pct of its electrical appliances and 65 pct of itstelecommunications equipment.    A recent study by Morgan Guaranty Trust Co says Taiwan andSouth Korea are the most pressing trade issue for the U.S.    While Hong Kong and Singapore run trade surpluses with theU.S., these are offset by their deficits with other countries.    But Taiwan and, to a lesser extent, South Korea, stand inmarked contrast. Both of these nations have moved rapidly intolarge bilateral surplus with the U.S. and major overrall tradeand current account surpluses, the Morgan study says.    Morgan expects Taiwan's overall trade surplus to grow to18.5 billion dlrs in 1987 from 15.2 billion last year, andKorea's to increase to 6.5 billion dlrs from 3.5 billion.    Concern about the NICs is not confined to the U.S.    "A lot of Korea and Taiwan's exports to the U.S. have beenat Japan's expense," said Richard Koss at General Motors Corp.    February's Paris meeting of six major industrial powersexorted NICs to lower trade barriers and revalue currencies.    But this two-pronged approach has drawn little responsefrom the two nations so far and, in any case, will only workwith a sizeable lag, economists say.    The U.S. has not said how much it thinks the Taiwan's andKorea's currencies should climb. The Taiwan dollar, which ispegged to the U.S. dollar, has risen about 15 pct sinceSeptember 1985 while the Korean won has risen about five pct.    But in real terms the Taiwan dollar has been flat againstthe U.S. unit and the won has lost seven pct, economists say.    "We've not seen any lessening of competition from thosecountries that we can attribute to currency changes," saidBethlehem Steel's Wendt.    And so far, U.S. pleas for Taiwan and Korea to use theirhefty export earnings to import more have had little effect.    Moreover, it is uncertain how far U.S. protectionism willget given the administration's free-trade stance. "It's hard tosee that anything will be passed much before year-end. And thenthe question is, will it have teeth?" one economist said.    Reuter
SPRINKEL URGES GREATER GROWTH IN JAPAN, EUROPE Beryl Sprinkel, chairman ofthe president's council of economic advisors, said strongerdomestic demand growth in Japan and Western Europe is needed tohelp stimulate U.S. exports without having to rely on futherdollar declines.    "Stronger domestic demand growth in the major foreignindustrial countries is needed to engender the much neededexpansion of U.S. export markets without having to rely onfurther dollar depreciation," he told the Futures IndustryAssociation.    Sprinkel said the recent recovery of domestic demand inJapan and Europe has been one of the weakest in the post-warperiod.    "Stronger domestic demand growth in the major industrialcountries would help give balance to the current worldrecovery," he said.    Asked if Japan was not living up to commitments made lastmonth to trading partners, he said recent figures showedJapan's economy grew by about 0.5 pct in the fourth quarter of1986, "Not enough to sustain employment growth."    However, Sprinkel said Japan had not reneged on its pledgesand was moving toward more stimulative policies, including taxreform. "I suspect there will be further moves," he said.    Sprinkel repeated his call for further cuts in U.S.government spending and for resistance to tax increases.    "Reducing the federal government budget deficit byexpenditure restraint is needed to preserve the low marginaltax rates achieved by tax reform," he said, adding that "a voteto increase to government expenditures is a vote against taxreform."    Sprinkel said the fall of the dollar had substantiallyrestored U.S. cost competitiveness and that the deteriorationof the U.S. trade balance appeared to have abated.    However, he said that "sole reliance on dollar depreciationto reduce our trade deficit is not desirable," as it risksinflation in the United States and recession abroad.    "I am confident that further improvements in our tradeperformance will contribute significantly to growth in 1987," hesaid. Improvements in the U.S. trade balance, he said, willcome about largely from a swing in manufactures trade andpresent "serious adjustment problems for U.S. trading partners."    Western Europe, where manufactures output and employmenthave been weak, promises to be especially hard hit by theimprovement in the U.S. trade balance, Sprinkel said.    He defended flexible exchange rates saying wide swings inrates were not a fault of the system but of the undesirablepolicies that produced them. Reuter
EC OFFICIAL FAULTS U.S. TRADE BILL Sir Roy Denman, Head of the ECDelegation in Washington, said pending U.S. trade legislationis a misguided attempt to deal with the nation's trade deficitand will spark retaliation if passed in its present form.    "To think that you can deal with a trade deficit bylegislation is a mistake," he told the Foreign TradeAssociation here.    Denman told reporters that possible retaliation, which hewarned of in a letter to House Ways and Means CommitteeChairman Dan Rostenkowski, would not necessarily be on aproduct-for-product basis.    "Retaliation does not have to be matched product toproduct," Denman said.    He said in the case of textiles import restrictions,however, retaliation would be against U.S. textile exports.    "Certainly, if restrictions were imposed on Europeanexports of textiles to the U.S., the Community would be likelyto retaliate with restrictions on U.S. textile exports toEurope," Denman said.    He also took exception to U.S. proposals to requirecountries with large current account surpluses with the U.S. tocut those surpluses or face special tariffs.    "This would conflict with international obligations, throwa large wrench into the current round of trade negotiations andcould easily boomerang," he warned of the tariff proposals.    Denman also took exception to U.S. efforts to seekreciprocity in specific trade sectors.    "Forcing reciprocity in one sector by imposing barrierswould simply lead to retaliation from the other party," hesaid, adding that overall reciprocity can only be achieved bytrading off disadvantages in one sector for advantages inanother. Reuter
SENATE WANTS JAPAN SEMICONDUCTER PACT ENFORCED The U.S. Senate has unanimouslycalled for President Reagan immediately to force Japan to liveup to a pledge to stop dumping its microchips and open itsmarkets to U.S. Chipmakers.    The Senate voted 93 to 0 to urge Reagan to impose penaltieson Japanese high-technology products containing semiconductorsin retaliation for what it sees as Japan's violations of thesemiconductor pact.    While the measure does not bind Reagan to any action,Senate leaders said its adoption would warn Japan stifferlegislation would be considered if the violations continue.    "We want to send a message to Japan to let it know how theSenate feels about this matter," Senate Democratic Leader RobertByrd told the Senate.    Senate Finance Committee chairman Lloyd Bentsen told theSenate the measure was not aimed at retaliation but atcorrecting Japan's unfair trade practices.    A key House trade lawmaker, Representative Richard Gephardtalso announced he would seek to force Japan and other countrieswith huge trade surpluses to slash their surplus by 10 pct ayear for three years. REUTER
TAIWAN'S EXPORT ORDERS FALL IN FEBRUARY Export orders for Taiwanese productsfell 1.37 pct to 3.58 billion U.S. Dlrs in February from 3.63billion in January, but rose nearly 43 pct from 2.51 billion ayear earlier, an Economic Ministry official said.    He attributed the fall to the rising Taiwan dollar.    February orders for electric and electronic goods were 619mln U.S. Dlrs, up from 574 mln in January and 370 mln inFebruary 1986. Garment orders were 324 mln dlrs against 383 mlnand 283 mln while footwear orders were 297 mln compared with333 mln and 200 mln. REUTER
VOLCKER SAYS U.S. TRADE DEFICIT IS MAJOR CHALLENGE Federal Reserve BoardChairman Paul Volcker said the U.S. Trade deficit is achallenge for the U.S. Equal to the Soviet Union launching ofSputnik.    "The international challenge implicit in our huge tradedeficit has become the 1980s equivalent to the launch ofSputnik by the Russians in the 1950s, when we suddenly fearedwe were to be left in the wake of Soviet technologicalachievement," he said in an address to Florida educators.     He said the trade problem underscored the need to reformthe U.S. Educational system to improve economic performance.    The Commerce Department reported last week that thenation's trade gap, calculated on a balance-of-payments basis,swelled to a record 38.37 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter,bringing the 1986 deficit to a record 147.71 billion dlrs.    Volcker called on educators to stress the development ofbasic reading, writing and mathematics skills and urged them tohelp students adapt to the fast-changing economic climate.    Volcker said the challenge was greatest in the education oflow-income minority groups such as blacks and Hispanics. REUTER
S. KOREAN FEBRUARY CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS NARROWS South Korea's current account surplusnarrowed to 419 mln dlrs in February from 679 mln in Januarycompared with a deficit of 112 mln dlrs in February last year,provisional Bank of Korea figures show.    The current account in the two months of January andFebruary swung to a surplus of 1.1 billion dlrs from a deficitof 494 mln dlrs in the same 1986 period.    The February trade surplus narrowed to 235 mln dlrs from582 mln in January compared with a deficit of 98 mln dlrs ayear ago.    The overall balance of payments surplus rose to 840 mlndlrs in February from 716 mln in January and 76 mln in February1986.    Exports were 2.86 billion dlrs in February against 2.83billion in January and 2.23 billion in February last year.Imports were 2.63 billion against 2.25 billion and 2.32billion.    The February invisible trade surplus rose to 109 mln dlrsfrom 24 mln in January and compared with a deficit of 74 mln ayear ago.    The transfer payments surplus widened to 75 mln dlrs inFebruary from 73 mln in January and 60 mln a year ago.    The long-term capital account surplus was 198 mln dlrs inFebruary against 211 mln in January and 55 mln in February lastyear. The short-term capital account surplus was 87 mln dlrsagainst 46 mln and 158 mln.    The errors and omissions account left a surplus of 840 mlndlrs in February against deficits of 220 mln in January and 25mln in February 1986. REUTER
TAIWAN PLANS MISSION TO CLOSE TRADE GAP WITH U.S. Taiwan's leading industrial organisationsaid it will send its first buying mission to the U.S. Laterthis year in an effort to reduce the country's trade surpluswith Washington.    A spokesman for the Chinese National Federation ofIndustries told Reuters the mission was part of a broader planto switch large purchases to the U.S. From Japan.    The Federation groups all of Taiwan's major industrialassociations. Last year its members purchased about 4.5 billionU.S. Dlrs worth of industrial products from Japan and about 1.8billion from the U.S.    The spokesman said Federation members were now discussingthe volume of business they could transfer to America.    He said they had drawn up a list of about 80 industrialproducts they would be shopping for in the U.S. During thebuying mission in September, but he could give no figure on howmuch would be spent.    A Board of Foreign Trade official told Reuters thegovernment would send two buying missions to America betweenJune and July this year and might send others later.    Taiwan's trade surplus with the U.S. Rose to a record 13.6billion dlrs last year from 10.2 billion in 1985. REUTER
SENATE WANTS JAPAN SEMICONDUCTER PACT ENFORCED The U.S. Senate has unanimouslycalled for President Reagan immediately to force Japan to liveup to a pledge to stop dumping its microchips and open itsmarkets to U.S. Chipmakers.    The Senate voted 93 to 0 to urge Reagan to impose penaltieson Japanese high-technology products containing semiconductorsin retaliation for what it sees as Japan's violations of thesemiconductor pact.    While the measure does not bind Reagan to any action,Senate leaders said its adoption would warn Japan stifferlegislation would be considered if the violations continue.    "We want to send a message to Japan to let it know how theSenate feels about this matter," Senate Democratic Leader RobertByrd told the Senate.    Senate Finance Committee chairman Lloyd Bentsen told theSenate the measure was not aimed at retaliation but atcorrecting Japan's unfair trade practices.    A key House trade lawmaker, Representative Richard Gephardtalso announced he would seek to force Japan and other countrieswith huge trade surpluses to slash their surplus by 10 pct ayear for three years. REUTER
JAPAN UNDER ATTACK OVER TRADE SURPLUS Japan's economic policies face fierceinternational attack as hopes fade of a substantial drop in itstrade surplus, international monetary sources said.    At a meeting this week in Paris, senior governmentofficials from major nations are considering an Organisationfor Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) staff reportthat forecasts a continuing large Japanese trade surplus, theysaid.    Though Japanese exports have become more expensive with theyen's sharp rise against the dollar, they still tend to surgewhen growth picks up, according to the OECD.    As a solution, the OECD staff has urged Japan to redirectits export-driven economy, boosting domestic demand and importsby adopting a more flexible fiscal policy, they said.    That recommendation echoes calls made recently at secretmeetings of the International Monetary Fund's executive board.    The monetary sources said Japan's policy was criticizedwhen the board met to consider the country's economy under theannual consultations it holds with each of its members.    The United States, which until recently has been reluctantto criticize Japan's fiscal stance, joined in the attack, hesaid.    The IMF staff has also cast doubt on the Japanesegovernment's forecast of 3.5 pct economic growth in the fiscalyear beginning April 1. Most independent forecasters, includingthe IMF, believe that growth in calendar 1987 will be belowthree pct, monetary sources said.    The Finance Ministry has been particularly sensitive tosuch criticism because it is already under mounting domesticpressure to boost an economy hard-hit by the yen's rise. Theyen's climb has lost exporters sales and profits in the hugeAmerican market.    Tokyo is also eager to avoid any suggestion that a furtheryen rise might be needed to cut its trade surplus, which lastyear amounted to a record 93 billion dlrs.    Japan cannot tolerate a further rise of the yen, ForeignMinister Tadashi Kuranari said recently. The yen closed heretoday at 151.53 to the dollar. Most Japanese politicians,including Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa, are clearly hopingthe yen will weaken, government officials said.    At a meeting in Paris last month, Britain, Canada, France,Japan, the United States and West Germany, agreed to cooperateto hold currencies at around current levels.    Officials said that wording represented a compromise.Miyazawa hopes the agreement will hold the yen stable for a fewmonths, before it weakens later in the year.    Japan wanted the Paris communique to imply a higher valuefor the dollar, perhaps by substituting the word "recent" for"current," while the United States wanted it to more clearlypoint to the dollar's weaker levels now, perhaps by use of theword "present," they said.    In the months leading up the February 22 agreement, thedollar dropped some 10 yen.    The officials also sought to discredit suggestions in themarket that recent U.S. Action to prevent the dollar fromrising above 1.87 marks pointed to a 153 to 155 yen ceiling forthe U.S. Currency.    Japan has also attacked OECD forecasts, which it says donot take account of the structural changes in the Japaneseeconomy that will be triggered by the strong yen.    Officials said there are already signs of that. More andmore companies have announced plans to move productionfacilities offshore to take advantage of cheaper costs abroad,they said. REUTER
JAPAN SAYS OECD STUDY ON SUBSIDIES STILL ONGOING Japanese Agriculture Ministry officialssaid a study of agriculture subsidies by the Organisation forEconomic Cooperation and Development, OECD, is still under wayand will be completed sometime next month.    The officials said the study has been inaccurate so far,and they said Japan would comment on the final results.    A Reuter report from Washington yesterday said the studyhas found that Japan has the highest agriculture subsidies inthe world and that dairy farmers benefit more than any othercommodity producers from subsidies. The study has not beenofficially released due to objections from some countries.    Japan has withdrawn its objection and decided to accept therelease of the study, the agriculture ministry officials said.OECD directors are expected to approve the release at a meetingin mid-May.    One agriculture ministry source said the study so far wasbased on the years 1979-81. Japanese subsidies have droppedsharply since then, partly because of tight budgetary policy,and foreign currency factors have also changed, he said.    "The study is ... Unfair and unacceptable because it doesnot take account of various differences in farming conditionsin each country, such as geography," the source said.    He said it is highly likely that the final study will showJapan has the highest farm subsidies in the world.    "This would increase foreign pressure to open Japan's farmmarket further, but this would have little impact on Japan'sagriculture policy," he said, without giving further details.    A main purpose of the study is to clarify export subsidiesby major exporting nations like the United States and theEuropean Community, but Japan is a major importer, he said. Reuter
VOLCKER SAYS TRADE DEFICIT IS MAJOR CHALLENGE Federal Reserve BoardChairman Paul Volcker said the U.S. Trade deficit is achallenge for the U.S. Equal to the Soviet Union launching ofSputnik.    "The international challenge implicit in our huge tradedeficit has become the 1980s equivalent to the launch ofSputnik by the Russians in the 1950s, when we suddenly fearedwe were to be left in the wake of Soviet technologicalachievement," he said in an address to Florida educators.     He said the trade problem underscored the need to reformthe U.S. Educational system to improve economic performance.    The Commerce Department reported last week that thenation's trade gap, calculated on a balance-of-payments basis,swelled to a record 38.37 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter,bringing the 1986 deficit to a record 147.71 billion dlrs.    Volcker called on educators to stress the development ofbasic reading, writing and mathematics skills and urged them tohelp students adapt to the fast-changing economic climate.    Volcker said the challenge was greatest in the education oflow-income minority groups such as blacks and Hispanics.            Reuter
INDIA, AUSTRALIA AGREE TO IMPROVE TWO-WAY TRADE Indian and Australian businessmensigned a memorandum of understanding to boost two-way trade andjoint industrial ventures in both countries, spokesmen of theIndo-Australia Business Council told reporters.    The Indian Council said it hoped India's exports toAustralia would improve in the next few months and reduce thetrade balance which is heavily in Australia's favour.    In 1986 Australia sold 428 mln Australian dlrs' worth ofgoods, including steel and coking coal, to India and bought170.5 mln worth of items, including cotton textiles, from India. Reuter
EC AND COMECON ENDS TALKS WITH PROGRESS The European Community (EC) andSoviet-led Comecon ended talks here, having made progress onsetting up formal trade relations, but no breakthrough becauseof Comecon's refusal to recognise West Berlin as part of theEC, delegates said.    Negotiators were trying to reach agreement on the draft ofa joint declaration setting up official relations after 30years of mutual non-recognition. John Maslen, head of the ECdelegation, told Reuters as he emerged from the final session:"We made some progress, but we have called for another meeting."    Officials, who asked not to be named, said the Comecon teamhad refused to accept a clause in the draft declaration whichwould recognise West Berlin as part of the 12-nation EC.    Under the 1957 Treaty of Rome all contracts and agreementssigned by the Community must contain this territorial clausestipulating West Berlin is an integral part of the EC. An ECnegotiator taking part in the three-day talks said: "We wantedthe territorial clause in, but Comecon said no."    A joint statement issued after the talks said progress wasmade towards clarifying positions, but another meeting would benecessary to complete the work.    Any decision in principle to set up relations would requireapproval by the Community's Council of Ministers and by theexecutive committee of Comecon.    Zdzislaw Kuroski, deputy director of Comecon, who heads theEast bloc delegation, told Reuters ahead of today's session: "Wehave narrowed our differences on a range of questions, but noton all questions."    Asked whether Comecon would accept EC insistence that anyjoint declaration stipulate West Berlin as part of theCommunity, he replied: "This question is not contained in thedraft which our side presented."    West German diplomats said they would insist on includingthe clause on West Berlin in any EC-Comecon agreement.    The talks followed an earlier round between the two tradingblocs here last September and the first-ever direct talksbetween the EC and the Soviet Union on establishing diplomaticrelations in January.    The EC trades with individual Comecon member states despitenon-recognition of Comecon. Last year, the EC had a fivebillion dlr trade deficit with East European states, about halfthe deficit of the previous year, due to a drop in the price ofSoviet oil imported by the EC. REUTER
KEATING SEES LOWER AUSTRALIAN CURRENT DEFICIT Australian Treasurer Paul Keating saidhe expects the country's 1986/87 current account deficit to beone billion dlrs lower than the 14.7 billion forecast in theAugust budget. Keating told a financiers' dinner thatFebruary's 750 mln dlr deficit, against January's 1.23 billion,was "in the groove" of the government's expectations.    "We will probably bring the current account this year under14 billion, I think, which will probably be about a billiondollars less than we forecast in the budget," Keating said. "I amsure we will see a lower current account deficit for next year... And a fall as proportion of GDP."    Australia posted a 13.82 billion dlr current accountdeficit in 1985/86 and Keating said the latest monthly figuresshowed an encouraging trend.    Keating said the government would maintain responsibleeconomic management regardless of whether it was drawn into anelection, because it would take time to stabilise Australia's80 billion dlr foreign debt.    "We have to build the import competing sector back," he said."We are now trying to rebuild our capital structure. We aretrying to rebuild the culture of productivity andmanufacturing."    Keating said the foundation for a transition of the economyhad been laid with the floating of the Australian dollar andcontinued with wage restraint and deregulation.    The Government would follow with spending cuts in itseconomic statement on May 14, he said. REUTER
 EC SAYS U.S. BROKE TRADE RULES IN AKZO-DUPONT ROW The European Community Commission hascharged the United States with breaking international traderules by excluding Dutch-made fibres from the U.S. Market andsaid it would take the issue to the world trade body GATT.    In the latest of a series of trade disputes withWashington, the executive authority alleged that a section ofthe U.S. Tariff Act was incompatible with the GATT (GeneralAgreement on Tariffs and Trade) because it discriminatedagainst imported products in favour of domestically-producedgoods.    The Commission said it would ask Geneva-based GATT to ruleon whether the section in question, which officials said hadproved a barrier to many EC exporters, conformed to its rules.    Commission officials did not rule out retaliatory measuresif, after a GATT decision against it, Washington failed tobring the disputed section into line with international rules.    The executive's decision to go to GATT follows a complaintto it by the Dutch company Akzo <AKZO.AS>, whose "aramid"synthetic fibres have been banned from the U.S. Market becauseof charges by the U.S. Firm <Dupont> that the fibres violatethe American company's patents.    Akzo alleged that the ban, imposed by the U.S.International Trade Commission (ITC), was discriminatory andincompatible with GATT provisions.    The dispute centres on the fact that section 337 of theU.S. Tariff Act gives the ITC jurisdiction  over importedproducts. The EC Commission charged that EC producers did nothave the same possibilities for defending themselves before theITC as they would have in a normal U.S. Court.    "Consequently the procedure followed...Is less favourablethan that which takes places in normal courts of law for goodsproduced in the United States," it said in a statement. Reuter
GATT TO DEBATE U.S. CHARGES OF AIRBUS SUBSIDIES The U.S. Will pursue its complaint thatEuropean governments unfairly subsidise the Airbus Industrieaircraft consortium in proceedings at the GATT civil aircraftcommittee, a GATT spokesman said today.    The U.S. Presented its case for the first time to theaircraft committee of the General Agreement on Tariffs andTrade (GATT) during a special two-day session ending today.GATT rules cover some 80 pct of world commerce.    The 20-member committee agreed to open debate on the U.S.Complaint, starting with informal consultations and thenholding a special session in July, trade officials said.    "The tension has eased," the permanent trade ambassador ofthe 12-member European Community Tran Van Thinh told reporters."The U.S. Has decided to go through proper channels."    U.S. Trade officials again made clear their anger over whatthey call unfair government support for Airbus, voiced during avisit to European capitals in February.    In a letter calling for the special committee meeting,Washington charged France, West Germany, the U.K., Spain andthe EC Commission with unfair practices on behalf of Airbus.    The U.S. Charges that the Europeans are violating ruleslaid down in the 1979 Agreement on Trade in Civil Aircraft.    Washington presented its reading of rules on inducement topurchase aircraft and support for development of airlinesduring the special session and asked the committee to confirmits view.    Official sources in the delegations said the U.S. Viewswould be considered during the informal consultations but theEuropeans would also be free to bring up any complaints againstAmerican civil aircraft practices.    Some delegates said the U.S. Position appeared to give suchbroad interpretation to the rules as to suggest that the civilaircraft accord needed re-negotiating. All these matters wouldbe considered during the informal meetings. Reuter
LEADING ECONOMISTS CALL FOR MORE GROWTH ABROAD A panel of four leading economiststold a congressional hearing today that foreign economies willneed to expand to avoid recession as the U.S. trade deficitdeclines.    C. Fred Bergsten, a former senior Treasury Departmentofficial, and Robert Solomon of the Brookings Institution toldthe Senate Foreign Relations Committee, the major exportingcountries risk recession if they do not expand because U.S.demand for imports is expected to fall.    "They need to beef up domestic demand as their tradesurplus falls," or unemployment will keep growing, Bergstensaid.    Bergsten predicted the U.S. trade deficit, which hit 169billion dlrs last year, will fall 30-40 billion dlrs a year forthe next two years as a result of the dollar's 35-40 pctdecline since September 1985.    The government should intervene to push the dollar downfurther if the previous declines do not lead to an improvementin the trade picture, if the U.S. budget deficit is not reducedand if foreign expansion does not occur, he added.    Solomon said the dollar must fall further to compensate forthe huge interest payments required on U.S. foreign debt. TheParis agreement between the major industrialized countriesprovided only for a pause in its decline, he said.    Rimmer de Vries, senior vice president of Morgan GuarantyTrust Co., said the U.S. trade deficit problem is a problem oflagging growth in industrial economies, prolonged currencymisalignment, debt problems of the developing countries, andunbalanced growth in the Asian industrializing countries.    John Makin of the American Enterprise Institute, suggestedforeign tax cuts to increase demand and pick up the slack fromthe U.S. trade deficit fall. Reuter
JAPAN OPENS HOME MARKET TO U.S. FISH Japan has agreed to drop barriers toAmerican-caught herring and pollock, opening the way forshipments that could reach 300 mln dlrs annually, U.S. TradeRepresentative Clayton Yeutter announced.    Yeutter said the accord was reached after extensivebilateral negotiations that ended earlier today in Tokyo.    He said the Commerce Department estimated U.S. shipments ofprocessed pollock products and herring should rise to 85 mlndlrs this year and to more than 300 mln dlrs annually in lateryears.    There was no immediate assessment of the value of currentU.S. shipments, but officials said the pact would lift quotasto the point that Americans would be able to ship nearly allthe pollock and herring ordered by Japanese firms.    At the same time, Yeutter said Washington was temporarilysuspending a complaint with the General Agreement on Tariffsand Trade (GATT) that Japan was unfairly curbing imports of thetwo fish.    He said the complaint would be reviewed later this yearafter an assessment to see if Japan lived up to the agreement. Reuter
CANADA'S CLARK SEES TRADE AS MOST URGENT PROBLEM Trade is the most urgent problemfacing U.S.-Canadian relations because of a pressing need toreach a new bilateral pact within the coming months, Joe Clark,Canadian secretary of state for external affairs, said.    Negotiators for the two countries have been meeting formore than a year in an effort to work out an agreement.    "The most urgent problem now is the trade question becausethat has to be decided within the next 10 months," Clark toldthe Commonwealth Club of California. "We have a fast trackauthority from your Congress for approval or rejection ofwhatever the negotiators achieve."    Clark said that, as a practical matter, an initialagreement must be reached by late September or early October.    He listed environmental questions, particularly acid rain,and defense as the second and third most important bilateralissues facing Ottawa and Washington.    On Wednesday, President Reagan announced that he will seek2.5 billion dlrs from Congress to address the acid rainproblem. Some interpreted the move as a goodwill gesture inadvance of his annual meeting, on April 5-6 in Ottawa, withPrime Minister Brian Mulroney.    In a question-and-answer session with the public affairsgroup, Clark said that the two countries must find bettermechanisms for resolving their trade disputes.    "This rash of countervailing actions, where we acted oncorn and you acted on soft wood and we both said they werequasijudicial -- the dispute resolution mechanisims in placenow are not working adequately in either of our interests," hesaid.    Ottawa also is seeking to change some of Washington's ruleson government procurement that penalize Canadian businesses, hesaid.    "There are a number of Canadian companies that, in order tosecure substantial contracts in the United States, have had tomove their head offices out of our country into your countrybecause you have national procurement requirements," he said.    In turn, he added, the United States would like to changesome of the procurement requirements that exist at theprovincial government level in Canada.    Clark declined to forecast the outcome of the discussions.    "What will come out of it remains for the negotiators, inthe first instance, to propose, and then governments andcongresses will have judge," he said.    In his prepared remarks, Clark said that the United Stateshas tended to take Canada for granted, although it exports toits northern neighbor more than twice what it exports to Japan."Yet you bought almost 10 per cent more from Japan last yearthan you bought from Canada," he said. REUTER Reuter
U.S. SENATORS SAY SANCTIONS LIKELY ON MICROCHIPS The United States will likely imposesanctions soon on imports of Japanese microchips, senators saidtoday after a private meeting with Commerce Secretary MalcolmBaldrige.    Although the senators said Baldrige told them no decisionwould be taken until a final determination is made on whetherJapanese microchips were dumped in the United States, they saidthey were virtually sure Japan would face penalties.    President Reagan's trade policy advisory group, of whichBaldrige is a member, will meet on the issue Wednesday.    "I am confident we will see action taken," Sen. John McCain,an Arizona Republican, told reporters.    "I am expecting sanctions at least, and even more thansanctions," Sen. Pete Domenici, a New Mexico Republican, said.    The senators, several congressmen and U.S. semiconductorindustry representatives met with Baldrige and State Departmentofficials to discuss Japan's alleged violations of a September1986 agreement to stop dumping its microchips in the UnitedStates and other countries.    They recommended Japanese firms be penalized throughtariffs or import duties over the next six to 12 months forcontinuing to dump microchips. The violations were worth 100mln dls to the Japanese semiconductor industry, they said.    Asked if Baldrige intended to recommend sanctions, Sen.Pete Wilson told reporters, "The clear import of what he said isthat there will be."    "Japan can't just say they will comply. We think sanctionsmust be applied," for past violations of the agreement, theCalifornia Republican said.    The semiconductor industry produces microprocessor chipswhich are used in high technology products ranging from radiosto defence missile guidance systems.    Sen. James McClure, an Idaho Republican, said Baldrige toldthem the administration had not made a final determination thatJapanese companies had dumped semiconductor microchips belowthe cost of production in the United States or other countries.    But McClure said senators told him, "There is no doubtdumping is going on," based on evidence such as invoices ofpurchases of the Japanese products.    The two countries signed a pact last September in whichJapan agreed to stop selling its microchips in the UnitedStates and other countries below production costs and to allowthe U.S. semiconductor industry access to the Japanese market.    In return, the United States waived its right to imposeimport duties on the Japanese microchips.    Japanese officials have said they have lived up to the pactand have asked Japanese chip-makers to further slash output tosave the pact.    Japan has frequently been the target of congressionaldiscouragement over last year's record 169-billion-dlr tradedeficit. Tokyo had a 59-billion-dlr surplus with the UnitedStates last year and had large surpluses with other countries.    The Senate yesterday unanimously passed a resolutioncalling for action against Japan for violations of the pactsince September. The resolution will be introduced in the Housenext week by Rep. Bob Matsui, a California Democrat. Reuter
NEXT WORLD TRADE NEGOTIATIONS MUST SUCCEED - NZ Ministers from more than 20nations were told by New Zealand that the next internationalnegotiations on liberalising trade would be the last thiscentury and the cost of failure could not be measured.    Trade minister Mike Moore told his colleagues at awelcoming ceremony before two days of talks here that greatprogress had been made in preparing for the negotiations whichmust not be sidetracked.    "We live in troubled and dangerous times for the worldtrading system," he said.    "We have seen that the failure of the world trading systemhas caused great depression and conflict in the past. Ourfailure to maintain the momentum will be at great cost to usall," Moore said.    He added: "The cost of failure is beyond calculation. It isour last hope and best opportunity this century. We will notget another chance before the year 2000."    The ministers are in New Zealand to review world tradesince the "Uruguay round" talks last Sepember. The meeting isalso part of preparations for a full-scale conference of theGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in Venice inJune.    The Uruguay meeting is considered by most countries to havebeen particularly successful, with northern hemispherecountries managing to have service industries such as bankingand insurance included in the next full round.    The southerners' goal of including agricultural andtropical products also was met.    The meeting at this North Island tourist resort isdescribed by participants as informal and no declaration isexpected.    Moore said one aim was to "instil a sense of politicalurgency to avert potential economic tragedy."    Another was to seek ways of popularising freer trade topeople who felt the pain of readjustment but could not see thebenefits, as well as preventing "bush fires of confrontationwhile we proceed with orderly negotiations."    The meeting is being attended by 25 overseas delegationsincluding representatives of GATT and the Economic Community.    The delegates include U.S. Trade Representative ClaytonYeutter.    American sources say he is ready to state that the best wayto reverse protectionist sentiment in the United States is toimplement four key Uruguay proposals:    -- an end to agricultural subsidies;    -- inclusion of trade in services and investments in GATTregulations;    -- tightening of restrictions on pirating of so-calledintellectual property such as trademarks, patents andcopyrights;    -- new rules to resolve trade disputes among GATT's 92member states.    Earlier, New Zealand sources had said French Foreign TradeMinister Michel Noir had pulled out of the informal GATT talksfor domestic political reasons.    Cabinet chief Bernard Prauge will lead the Frenchdelegation. REUTER
GATT SUCCESS WILL TAKE PRESSURE, N.Z. MINISTER Long term pressure by tradeministers is necessary if the current Uruguay round of talks onthe General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs (GATT) is tosucceed, New Zealand's Overseas Trade minister Mike Moore said.    Moore told the opening meeting of trade ministers from 22nations gathered for informal talks on the GATT that ministers"need opportunities to keep in touch and to consider how thepolitical problems inherent in an exercise like this one can befaced and resolved."    Moore said the Taupo meeting is one of a series of suchinternational gatherings, which includes the OECD ministerialmeeting in May and the G-7 meeting in Venice in June, enablingministers to maintain contact.    World trade conditions are getting better not worse, hesaid.    He said New Zealand is "moving rapidly and of our owninitiative in the direction of liberalisation, and I warn youwe shall be looking for partners." REUTER
YEUTTER SEES U.S., JAPAN VERGING ON TRADE CONFLICT The United States and Japanare on the brink of serious conflict on trade, especially oversemiconductors, Japanese unwillingness for public bodies to buyU.S. Super-computers, and barriers to U.S. Firms seeking toparticipate in the eight billion dlr Kansai airport project,U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said.    He was talking to reporters yesterday on the eve of atwo-day meeting of trade ministers which will review progressmade by committees set up after the Uruguay meeting lastSeptember launched a new round of GATT (General Agreement onTariffs and Trade) talks.    European Community (EC) commissioner Willy de Clercqmeanwhile told reporters conflict between the world's threemajor trading and economic powers -- the EC, the U.S. And Japan-- set a poor example for other members of GATT.    Australian Trade Minister John Dawkins told the reportersbilateral retaliation at the enormous expense of the rest ofthe world was no way to solve trade disputes.    New Zealand trade minister Mike Moore told his colleaguesgreat progress had been made in preparing for the current roundof GATT negotiations which must not be sidetracked.    The ministers have said they want to maintain the momentumtowards fresh negotiations or avert serious trade conflicts.    Yeutter said the problem with international trade talks wasthat they tended to get bogged down for years. "Countries don'tget very serious about negotiating until the end of the daywhich is, maybe, five or six years in the future."    He also said he did not consider the new U.S. Congress asprotectionist as it was 18 months ago. "That's a very healthydevelopment," he added."If you asked me about that a year or 18months ago I would have said that it was terriblyprotectionist."    "Members of Congress, that is the contemplative members ofCongress, have begun to realise protectionism is not the answerto the 170 billion dlr trade deficit," Yeutter said.    "They've also begun to realise that you cannot legislatesolutions to a 170 billion dollar trade deficit so they aremore realistic and, in my judgement, more responsible on thatissue than they were 12 or 18 months ago."    He added, "Whether that will be reflected in the legislationthat eventually emerges is another matter." REUTER
TAIWAN TO BOOST FARM IMPORTS FROM U.S., EUROPE Taiwan is expected to boost agriculturalimports from the U.S. And Europe in calendar 1987 to helpbalance trade, the Council of Agriculture said.    A council official, who declined to be named, told Reutersthe imports, which will include about seven mln tonnes ofoilseeds, grains and dairy products, would be worth some fourbillion U.S. Dlrs against 3.72 billion in 1986 and 3.38 billionin 1985.    Taiwan's surplus with the U.S. Rose to 13.6 billion dlrslast year from 10.2 billion in 1985, government figures show.    Government figures also show Taiwan's surplus with Europerose to 1.53 billion dlrs last year from 543 mln in 1985.    Taiwan's imports of U.S. Farm produce last year amounted to1.41 billion dlrs against 1.52 billion in 1985.    Imports from Europe rose to 182 mln U.S. Dlrs from 148 mln,the official said.    He attributed the decline in the value of U.S. Imports tofalling agricultural products prices last year. REUTER
GATT MEETING HEARS PLEA FOR AFRICAN DEBT RELIEF Debt among African countrieswill continue to grow and their economies remain stifled unlessdeveloped countries lower their interest rates, Nigerian TradeMinister Samaila Mamman said.    He told an informal General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade(GATT) meeting the widening gap between developed anddeveloping countries and an inequitable international economicsystem were major impediments to growth in developingcountries.    Delegates from 23 countries are attending the GATT talks inthe New Zealand resort of Taupo.    "I wish to emphasise that the growth in the volume of theexternal indebtedness of African countries reflects the fulleffect of the deflationary monetary and trade policies of thedeveloped market economy countries," Mamman said.    "The developed market economy countries have slowed downoutput growth thereby drying up markets for the commodityexports of African countries."    Mamman said the World Bank estimated 35.3 billion dlrs ayear would be needed over the next five years for the Africancontinent to be able to achieve a gross domestic product growth(GDP) rate of three to four pct by 1990.    Yet at the same time Africa's debt service was estimated at24.5 billion dlrs a year between 1986 and 1990.    "With the best of intentions Africa cannot attain a three tofour pct GDP growth rate if the current high level of debtpersists," Mamman said. Developed countries must seekalternatives to policies that resulted in the transfer ofresources and more indebtedness, he said.    "The international community cannot fail to respondpositively to the collapse of the international market forcommodities ... And act quickly to stabilize demand and pricesof our commodity exports," he added. REUTER
PHILIPPINES POSTS 68 MLN DLR JANUARY TRADE DEFICIT The Philippines posted a trade deficitof 68 mln dlrs in January, compared with deficits of 57 mln inJanuary 1986 and 28 mln in December, government figures show.    The National Census and Statistics Office (NCSO) saidimports of 436 mln dlrs in January were up from 371 mln inJanuary 1986 and 393 mln dlrs in December, while exports of 368mln were up on the 314 mln in January 1986 but lower thanDecember's 421 mln.    The country's 1987-92 medium-term development plan targetsa 9.8 pct average annual growth in exports and a 10.7 pctgrowth in imports, the NCSO said. REUTER
JAPAN SAYS IT TRYING TO EXPAND DOMESTIC DEMAND Japan has assured a meetingof trade ministers it is making every effort to expand domesticdemand and restructure its economy.    Japanese trade representative Tsomu Hata told an informalGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) meeting that, inaddition to demand boosting measures adopted last September, acomprehensive economic program will be prepared after the1987/88 budget is approved.    Hata, speaking at the first session of the two-day meeting,said agriculture is no exception to the goal of restructuringthe economy, but did not elaborate.    Hata said protectionist pressures in the internationaleconomy are as strong as ever, reflecting financial deficits,payment imbalances and serious unemployment in many countries.    Despite great potential, developing economies are stillconfronted by grave difficulties, particularly debt, he added.    The basis for the talks is the GATT ministerial declarationlast September in Punta del Este, Uruguay, and the subsequenttrade negotiating plan agreed in Geneva.    "It is essential that we first reaffirm here our commitmentto implementing that plan as scheduled," Hata said.    Hata added it is not constructive to speed up negotiationsin some areas at the expense of others.    In order to rebuild the free trade system, it is importantfor each participant to have domestic policies that will servethis end.    As part of its contribution, Japan plans in April tofundamentally improve its generalised system of preferences forindustrial and mining products to make Japan's domestic marketmore open to developing countries, he said. REUTER
INDONESIA'S NON-OIL EXPORTS DECLINE IN 1986 Indonesia's non-oil and gas exportsfell to 5.79 billion dlrs in calendar 1986 from 5.98 billion in1985, according to Bank Indonesia figures.    Coffee exports rose to 753 mln dlrs from 580 mln in 1985,but rubber shipments fell to 625 mln from 720 mln and tin to180.6 mln from 246 mln, weekly central bank figures show.    Indonesia hopes to boost its non-oil exports to make up foroil revenue lost because of lower prices. But the lower valueof commodities such as timber, rubber, palm oil and tea onworld markets has prevented this, despite a 31 pct devaluationof the rupiah against the dollar in September. REUTER
AUSTRALIAN MINISTER SAYS AGRICULTURE GATT PRIORITY Australian Trade MinisterJohn Dawkins said if the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade(GATT) does not give high priority to agricultural trade reformit will be neglecting the area of greatest crisis.    In a statement to the informal GATT trade ministersconference here he said agriculture is a problem which involvesall countries and seriously affects the debt servicingabilities of a number of developing countries.     He said major countries should be showing leadership onthis problem.    "We will be giving close attention to the processes in theOECD (Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development) andelsewhere leading to the Venice economic summit where we willbe looking to the participants to adopt a strong commitment toagricultural trade reform," Dawkins said.    The Venice summit is scheduled for June.    He said Australia's interests in the Uruguay Round, theeighth under the GATT, are wide ranging. Dawkins said he seesthe round as providing a timely opportunity to secure furthermeaningful trade liberalisation in all sectors and to restoreconfidence in the multilateral system.    Dawkins said initial meetings of the negotiating groupsestablished in Geneva after the GATT declaration last Septemberin Punta del Este, Uruguay, have made a reasonable start, butit is vital that trade ministers maintain the pressure on theseprocesses.    "We must see that the commitments made at Punta del Este onstandstill and rollback are carried into practice."    The standstill and rollback of protection offers the globaltrading system a chance to hold and wind back protection duringthe negotiations which are expected to last up to four years,he said. REUTER
JAPAN ECONOMY SEEN GROWING 3.6 PCT IN 1987/88 Japan is expected to post a 3.6 pct risein real gross national product in 1987/88, higher than theofficial 3.5 pct target, a private economic institute said.    The Research Institute on National Economy said in a reportthe economy will start picking up in the April-June quarter,partly because of an improvement in earnings performance andcapital spending in manufacturing industries.    The institute assumed an average exchange rate in the yearstarting April 1 of 150 yen to the dollar. It predicted theBank of Japan will not change the official discount rate in theyear.    The institute forecast that Japan's exports will graduallyrise in the year in volume terms as the dollar's fall in thepast 18 months is likely to help prop up the U.S. Economy.    Japan's trade surplus is expected to narrow slightly to90.2 billion dlrs in 1987/88 ending March 31 from an estimated98 billion in the current fiscal year, it said. REUTER
PHILIPPINES CRITICISES EC FOR VEGETABLE OIL LEVY Philippines Trade andIndustry Secretary Jose Concepcion told world trade ministershe wondered if their agreement was of any real value after theEuropean Community (EC) imposed a levy on vegetable oils.    Concepcion, speaking at an informal meeting of the GeneralAgreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) here, said ministersdeclared in Uruguay last September that the trade ofless-developed nations should not be disrupted.    He said the EC not only ignored Manila's request for lowertariffs on coconut oil but introduced a levy on vegetable oilsand fats that are vital exports for Southeast Asian countries.    Concepcion said while the levy might be rejected by the ECCouncil of Ministers, he noted that "I cannot help but wonderwhether the agreements we produce in meetings like this are ofany real value."    He also said industrialised nations saved about 65 billionU.S. Dlrs in 1985 through low commodity prices, but this hadaffected the ability of developing nations to import goods andservices.    "The health and the growth of world trade requires that thenew development of developing countries losing their share ofworld trade be arrested and reversed," he said. REUTER
BURMA SAYS DEBT SERVICE RATIO FALLS TO 48.8 PCT Burma's debt service ratio will havefallen to 48.8 pct in the fiscal year to end-March 1987 from 50pct in 1985-1986, the official Council of People's Inspectors(CPI) reported.    Western diplomats in Rangoon estimate the figure at above70 pct and say the country can no longer depend on foreignexchange reserves to cover more than a few weeks' imports.    The CPI, which oversees government spending, said in itslatest report to parliament that foreign currency reserves fellto a record low of 407.9 mln kyats in September 1986 from 430.3mln in March 1986. Earlier figures were not available.    Debt servicing cost Burma 1.62 billion kyats in 1985-1986while foreign exchange earnings -- export revenues plus loansand aid -- totalled 3.23 billion kyats in the same period, thecouncil said.    Later figures were not available.    Burma, which diplomats here say now has foreign debts of upto 3.4 billion dlrs, has applied to the United Nations to bereclassified as one of the world's least developed countries inorder to qualify for softer loan and grant aid. REUTER
FRENCH GDP SHOULD RISE 2.3 PCT IN 1988 - MINISTRY French gross domestic product should growby 2.3 pct in 1988 after two pct growth this year and 2.1 pctin 1986, the Finance Ministry said.    The latest forecast, prepared by the National Accounts andBudget Commission, assumed an exchange rate of 6.20 francs tothe dollar this year and next and an average oil import pricerising to 18.9 dlrs a barrel next year from 17.4 dlrs this yearand 14.7 in 1986.    The Commission, headed by Finance minister EdouardBalladur, forecast a fall in consumer price inflation to twopct year-on-year at end-1988 from 2.4 pct at end 1987 and 2.1pct last year.    In annual average terms inflation would fall to two pct in1988 from 2.5 pct this year and 2.7 pct last year, it said.    Trade should show a one billion franc annual surplus thisyear and next after last year's 0.5 billion surplus, it added.    Employment should rise by 0.1 pct a year over the next twoyears while the state budget deficit should be cut to 2.2 pctof GDP in 1988 from 2.6 pct this year and 2.9 pct in 1986.    Other forecasts prepared by the Commission indicated a 1.8pct 1988 rise in household purchasing power, up from 1.1 pctthis year but less than last year's 2.9 pct, and a 1.6 pct risein household consumption, compared with this year's 1.5 pct andlast year's 2.9 pct.    Business investment is forecast to rise four pct a yearthis year and next after 3.7 pct last year, with private sectorproductive investment rising 4.9 pct in 1988 after a six pctrise this year and 5.5 pct in 1986.    The Ministry said updated forecasts would be preparedbefore the autumn to serve as the basis for the 1988 budget,which the government is now preparing for presentation inSeptember. REUTER
DANISH TRADE IN BALANCE IN FEBRUARY Denmark's balance of payments oncurrent account was provisionally put at zero in February,against a 181 mln crown surplus in January and a 1.5 billiondeficit in February 1986, the National Statistics Office said.    Exports rose to 13.94 billion crowns in February from 12.53billion in January, against 14.16 billion in February lastyear. February imports rose to 13.94 billion from 12.35 billionin January, against 15.67 billion in February 1986.    The February figure provisionally gives a trade surplus for1987 of 180 mln crowns, against a 3.04 billion deficit in thesame 1986 period. REUTER
YEUTTER SEES U.S., JAPAN VERGING ON TRADE CONFLICT The United States and Japanare on the brink of serious conflict on trade, especially oversemiconductors, Japanese unwillingness for public bodies to buyU.S. Super-computers, and barriers to U.S. Firms seeking toparticipate in the eight billion dlr Kansai airport project,U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said.    He was talking to reporters yesterday on the eve of atwo-day meeting of trade ministers which will review progressmade by committees set up after the Uruguay meeting lastSeptember launched a new round of GATT (General Agreement onTariffs and Trade) talks.    European Community (EC) commissioner Willy de Clercqmeanwhile told reporters conflict between the world's threemajor trading and economic powers -- the EC, the U.S. And Japan-- set a poor example for other members of GATT.    Australian Trade Minister John Dawkins told the reportersbilateral retaliation at the enormous expense of the rest ofthe world was no way to solve trade disputes.    New Zealand trade minister Mike Moore told his colleaguesgreat progress had been made in preparing for the current roundof GATT negotiations which must not be sidetracked.    The ministers have said they want to maintain the momentumtowards fresh negotiations or avert serious trade conflicts.    Yeutter said the problem with international trade talks wasthat they tended to get bogged down for years. "Countries don'tget very serious about negotiating until the end of the daywhich is, maybe, five or six years in the future."    He also said he did not consider the new U.S. Congress asprotectionist as it was 18 months ago. "That's a very healthydevelopment," he added."If you asked me about that a year or 18months ago I would have said that it was terriblyprotectionist."    "Members of Congress, that is the contemplative members ofCongress, have begun to realise protectionism is not the answerto the 170 billion dlr trade deficit," Yeutter said.    "They've also begun to realise that you cannot legislatesolutions to a 170 billion dollar trade deficit so they aremore realistic and, in my judgement, more responsible on thatissue than they were 12 or 18 months ago."    He added, "Whether that will be reflected in the legislationthat eventually emerges is another matter." REUTER
BAKER DENIES DOLLAR TARGET EXISTS U.S. Treasury Secretary James Bakeragain said the meeting of six major industrial nations in Parislast month did not establish a target exchange rate for thedollar.    Baker said in a television interview aired here yesterday:"We don't have a target for the dollar." He declined to commenton what might be a desired level for the dollar, saying: "Wereally don't talk about the dollar."    He said protectionism was becoming "extremely strong" in theU.S. In response to widening U.S. Trade deficits and importbarriers in other countries.    "The mood in the United States is extremely disturbing. It'sextremely strong," he said.    "As I've said before, we sort of see ourselves as engagedhere in a real struggle to preserve the world's free tradingsystem, because if the largest market in the world (the U.S.)goes protectionist we run the risk of moving down the same paththat the world did in the late 1930s," he said.    While relative exchange rates had a role to play indefusing the threat of protectionism, it alone did not offerany solution, he said.    "You must address this problem on the exchange rate side,but it cannot be solved on the exchange rate side alone. It'sfar more comprehensive and broad than that, and the solution ofit requires a comprehensive approach," Baker said in theinterview.    Baker said it would be necessary for other countries toadjust their currencies upwards, as well as remove theirbarriers to U.S. Imports. But he did not elaborate or name anycountries. REUTER
NEXT WORLD TRADE NEGOTIATIONS MUST SUCCEED - NZ Ministers from more than 20nations were told by New Zealand that the next internationalnegotiations on liberalising trade would be the last thiscentury and the cost of failure could not be measured.    Trade minister Mike Moore told his colleagues at awelcoming ceremony before two days of talks here that greatprogress had been made in preparing for the negotiations whichmust not be sidetracked.    "We live in troubled and dangerous times for the worldtrading system," he said.    "We have seen that the failure of the world trading systemhas caused great depression and conflict in the past. Ourfailure to maintain the momentum will be at great cost to usall," Moore said.   "The cost of failure is beyond calculation. It is our lasthope and best opportunity this century. We will not get anotherchance before the year 2000," he added.    The ministers are in New Zealand to review world tradesince the "Uruguay round" talks last September. The talks are also part of preparations for a full-scale June meeting of theGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in Venice.    The Uruguay meeting is considered by most countries to havebeen particularly successful, with northern hemispherecountries managing to have service industries such as bankingand insurance included in the next full round.    The southerners' goal of including agricultural andtropical products also was met.    The meeting at this North Island tourist resort isdescribed by participants as informal and no declaration isexpected.    Moore said one aim was to "instil a sense of politicalurgency to avert potential economic tragedy."    Another was to seek ways of popularising freer trade topeople who felt the pain of readjustment but could not see thebenefits, as well as preventing "bush fires of confrontationwhile we proceed with orderly negotiations."    The meeting is being attended by 25 overseas delegationsincluding representatives of GATT and the Economic Community.    The delegates include U.S. Trade Representative ClaytonYeutter.    American sources say he is ready to state that the best wayto reverse protectionist sentiment in the United States is toimplement four key Uruguay proposals:    -- an end to agricultural subsidies;    -- inclusion of trade in services and investments in GATTregulations;    -- tightening of restrictions on pirating of so-calledintellectual property such as trademarks, patents andcopyrights;    -- new rules to resolve trade disputes among GATT's 92member states.    Earlier, New Zealand sources had said French Foreign TradeMinister Michel Noir had pulled out of the informal GATT talksfor domestic political reasons.    Cabinet chief Bernard Prauge will lead the Frenchdelegation. Reuter
FINLAND FEBRUARY TRADE SURPLUS AT 641 MLN MARKKA Finland had a 641 mln markka tradesurplus in February following an 80 mln markka surplus inJanuary and a 614 mln surplus in February 1986, Customs Boardpreliminary figures showed.    Exports in February were 6.38 billion markka and imports5.74 billion compared with exports of 6.72 billion and importsof 6.64 billion in January and exports of 6.92 billion andimports of 6.31 billion in February last year. REUTER
GATT MEETING HEARS PLEA FOR AFRICAN DEBT RELIEF Debt among Africancountries will continue to grow and their economies will remainstifled unless developed countries lower their interest rates,Nigerian Trade Minister Samaila Mamman said today.    He told an informal meeting of the General Agreement onTariffs and Trade the widening gap between industrialized anddeveloping countries and an unfair international economicsystem were major obstacles to growth in developing countries.    "I wish to emphasize that the growth in the volume of theexternal indebtedness of African countries reflects the fulleffect of the deflationary monetary and trade policies of thedeveloped market economy countries," Mamman said.    Delegates from 23 countries are attending the talks of theworld trade body in the New Zealand resort of Taupo. Reuter
JAPAN SAYS IT TRYING TO EXPAND DOMESTIC DEMAND Japan has assured a meetingof trade ministers it is making every effort to expand domesticdemand and restructure its economy.    Japanese trade representative Tsomu Hata told an informalGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) meeting that, inaddition to demand boosting measures adopted last September, acomprehensive economic program will be prepared after the1987/88 budget is approved.    Hata, speaking at the first session of the two-day meeting,said agriculture is no exception to the goal of restructuringthe economy, but did not elaborate.    Hata said protectionist pressures in the internationaleconomy are as strong as ever, reflecting financial deficits,payment imbalances and serious unemployment in many countries. Reuter
JAPAN IN LAST DITCH EFFORT TO SAVE CHIP PACT Japan has launched a last-ditch effort tosalvage its computer micro-chip pact with the United States -sending a letter to top American policy makers setting out itscase and instructing its producers to cut output further.    "We must make our utmost effort to ward off any catastrophe,"Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) DeputyDirector General Masaji Yamamoto told reporters.    "If hasty action is taken in the United States, it willcreate very serious problems."    The Reagan Administration's Economic Policy is expected tomeet Thursday to review Japanese compliance with the bilateralagreement hammered out last year. Under the pact, Tokyo agreedto stop selling cut-price chips in world markets and toincrease its imports of American semiconductors.    Washington has accused Japan of reneging on the deal byselling low priced chips in Asia and by failing to boostAmerican imports, and has threatened to take retaliatoryaction.    In an effort to save the agreement, MITI is asking Japanesechip makers to limit production in the hope that will boostdomestic demand and reduce the incentive to export.    Yamamoto said that Japan will slash output of 256 kilobitdynamic random access and erasable programmable read onlymemory chips by 11 pct in the second quarter. This follows acutback of more than 20 pct in the first three months of theyear.    He said the cutbacks were already drying up the supply ofchips available for export through unregulated distributors inthe so-called grey market.    "We have almost no grey market," he said. "Supply isdiminishing."    To help ensure that the cutbacks are implemented, MITIcalled in the president of Japan's largest semiconductor maker,NEC Corp <NIPN.T> last week, he said. It is also issuingspecific instructions on production to the Japanese subsidiaryof <Texas Instruments Inc>.    Trade and Industry Minister Hajime Tamura spelled out thesteps Japan was taking to salvage the pact and appealed forU.S. Understanding in a letter to top American policy makers.    The letter was sent today to U.S. Secretary of State GeorgeSchultz, Treasury Secretary James Baker, Commerce SecretaryMalcolm Baldrige and U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter.    The four, who make up the Economic Policy Council, areexpected to consider evidence presented by U.S. Chip makerMicron Technology Inc <DRAM.O> of cut-price Japanese sales inHong Kong.    Yamamoto admitted that <Oki Electric Industry Co>'s HongKong subsidiary had sold chips at an inappropriate level butdenied that it was dumping chips at rock-bottom prices.    "If the United States uses this as proof of dumping...Wewill present our rebuttal," he said.    The sales though were inappropriate in the light of MITI'sadvice to semiconductor makers to sell chips at well aboveproduction costs to avoid any hint of dumping, he said.    He also called the case "strange," but he stopped short ofendorsing Japanese newspaper accusations that Oki had beentrapped into making the sales. He did say though that Micronpublicized the invoice documenting the sales on the same daythey were made and that Oki was unable to locate the person whohad bought the chips when it tried to buy them back last week. Reuter
MARKET LOAN COULD BE PINNED TO U.S. TRADE BILL Sen. David Pryor, D-Ark., saidhe was considering amending the Senate Finance Committee'strade bill with a provision to require a marketing loan forsoybeans, corn and wheat.    Pryor told the Futures Industry Association that there wasgreat reluctance among members of the Senate AgricultureCommittee to reopen the 1985 farm bill, and that a marketingloan might have a better chance in the Finance panel.    The Arkansas senator said the marketing loan -- which ineffect allows producers to pay back their crop loans at theworld price -- had led to a 300 pct increase in U.S. cottonexports in 14 months and a 72 pct increase in rice exports.    Pryor serves on both the Senate Finance and AgricultureCommittees. Reuter
AMSTUTZ SAYS FARM TRADE ACCORD POSSIBLE IN 1988 U.S. Agriculture undersecretaryDaniel Amstutz said it is possible to reach a global agreementto scale-back agricultural supports in calendar 1988.    Speaking to a Senate Agriculture Appropriations committeehearing, Amstutz said "I think we can reach agreement incalendar 1988."    Amstutz said the U.S. places a high priority on the Uruguayround of global trade talks.    His comments followed a statement by Secretary of StateGeorge Shultz last week urging agriculture be the highestpriority item during the upcoming summit of western heads ofstate in Venice, Italy. Reuter
YEUTTER SEES GATT CONSENSUS ON FARM TRADE REFORM U.S. Trade RepresentativeClayton Yeutter said trade ministers meeting here have reacheda general consensus on agricultural trade reform under thelatest Uruguay round of the General Agreement on Tariffs andTrade (GATT).    Yeutter gave no precise details of the understanding buttold journalists the consensus covers the principles involvedin agricultural trade reform and what needs to be done toimprove the global situation in agriculture.    Delegates from 22 countries are meeting informally todiscuss progress made since the latest GATT round was launchedin Punta del Este, Uruguay, last September.    Yeutter said "at least people seem to be going down the sameroad...But how that translates ultimately into negotiations isanother matter entirely."    There seems to be an understanding of the need to deal withthe problem quickly and "a more common understanding of how weare going to get from here to there," Yeutter said.    However, the hard work is still to come, with a couple ofyears of tough negotiations ahead, he said.    "It is ludicrous for the nations of the world to ploughimmense amounts of financial resources into the production ofitems that nobody wants to buy," he said.    He said the long-term answer is to switch some of thefinancial resources now committed to agriculture to other moreproductive areas. This would help agriculture because some itsinefficient non-productive segments would stop operating, hesaid.    Individual segments in many countries may lose in theprocess, but it should result in a more rational system ofworld-wide production within 10 or 15 years, he said.    It is important that the agriculture negotiations reach arelatively early conclusion because the U.S. Is spending 26billion dlrs a year and the European Community probably morethan that, which is an ineffective use of financial resources,he said.    Asked about the prospect of a priority for agriculture inthe negotiations, he said "one has to be politicallyrealistic... If there is any chance of getting it (agriculturaltrade reform) done in two to three years it's going to have tobe as part of a larger package." REUTER
(CORRECTED) - PHILIPPINES CRITICISES EC FOR OIL LEVY Philippines Trade andIndustry Secretary Jose Concepcion told world trade ministershe wondered if their agreement was of any real value after theEuropean Community (EC) proposed a levy on vegetable oils.    Concepcion, speaking at an informal meeting of the GeneralAgreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) here, said ministersdeclared in Uruguay last September that the trade ofless-developed nations should not be disrupted.    He said the EC not only ignored Manila's request for lowertariffs on coconut oil but proposed a levy on vegetable oilsand fats that are vital exports for Southeast Asian countries.    Concepcion said while the levy might be rejected by the ECCouncil of Ministers, he noted that "I cannot help but wonderwhether the agreements we produce in meetings like this are ofany real value."    He also said industrialised nations saved about 65 billionU.S. Dlrs in 1985 through low commodity prices, but this hadaffected the ability of developing nations to import goods andservices.    "The health and the growth of world trade requires that thenew development of developing countries losing their share ofworld trade be arrested and reversed," he said. REUTER
TAIWAN COMPLAINS ABOUT SIZE OF RESERVES Taiwan's foreign exchange reserves,swollen by strong trade surpluses to a record 53 billion U.S.Dlrs, are becoming a problem, government officials said.    Official figures show the latest level compares with theprevious record of 51 billion dlrs on March 4 and about 26billion in late March 1986.    Central bank Governor Chang Chi-cheng told reporters theincrease in reserves was the result of heavy intervention bythe bank on the local interbank market. It bought nearly twobillion U.S. Dlrs between March 5 and 23, he said.    Wang Chao-ming, vice chairman of the government's Councilfor Economic Planning and Development, told Reuters the risingreserves were "a big headache for Taiwan."    He said the government expects heavier pressure from theU.S., Where protectionist bills are being proposed againstnations such as Taiwan and Japan with large trade surpluseswith the U.S.    Wang said the government would launch new measures withinthe next two months to further reduce import tariffs and openthe market wider to foreign products, especially those from theU.S.    Wang said the measures aim at helping reduce Taiwan's tradesurplus, which rose to 2.73 billion U.S. Dlrs in the first twomonths of 1987 from 2.02 billion a year earlier. Nearly 90 pctof the surplus was with the U.S.    Vice Economic Minister Wang Chien-shien agreed with Wang'sremarks and said efforts to avert U.S. Protectionism wererunning out of time. "We must do it quickly or face retaliationfrom Washington," he said.    He said the measures would include removal of tradebarriers on insurance and inland services for U.S. Companies.    Chang Chi-cheng said the central bank could not stop buyingU.S. Dollars because of heavy sales by local exporters who fearthe strong local dollar will cause them exchange losses.    He said the bank is studying revision of the foreignexchange rules in hope of further reducing currency controls,but declined to give details.    The Taiwan dollar has risen about 15 pct against the U.S.Dollar since September 1985. It opened at 34.38 to the U.S.Dollar today and is expected to rise further to 33 in June andto 32 by end-year, some foreign bankers said. REUTER
GATT ROUND MAY STOP GROWING TRADE PROBLEMS - U.S. A successful new GATT(General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) round is needed tohalt growing bilateral trade problems between major tradingpartners, U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said.    Yeutter, in New Zealand for informal GATT ministerialtalks, told Reuters bilateral trade disputes are increasingbecause the multilateral system is inefficient.    "That is really a strong rationale why we need a new GATTround," he said. "The very existence of all these bilateralirritants clearly emphasises the need to develop multilateralsolutions to some of these problems."    The eighth GATT round of negotiations was launched at Puntadel Este in Uruguay in September 1986. Agriculture and serviceswere included in the negotiations for the first time.    The growing debt burden of Latin American and Africannations will also provide impetus for the GATT round tosucceed, he said.    "Clearly those countries need to develop their exportendeavours and they need open markets for that to happen andthat's the basic objective of the new GATT round," he said.    But he said the GATT round is a long term endeavour. Itwill not give any short term relief for debt ridden countries,but it will make a difference in 10 to 15 years.    "It's a worthwhile activity from their standpoint becausethese debts are not going to go away in the next year or two,"he said.    "They ought to be very strongly supported in the GATT roundas a mechanism for relieving their debt burdens or makingpossible debt amortisation in the future," he said. REUTER
NAKASONE INTERVENES IN MICROCHIP DISPUTE WITH U.S. Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasoneintervened to try to resolve Japan's escalating dispute withthe U.S. Over semiconductor trade, government officials said.    At today's Cabinet meeting, Nakasone told Trade andIndustry Minister Hajime Tamura to redouble his efforts to calmU.S. Anger over what it sees as Japan's unfair trade practicesin semiconductors.    Nakasone intervened only two days before a scheduledmeeting of the Reagan administration's Economic Policy Councilto consider whether Japan is reneging on its microchip pactwith the U.S.    That pact, agreed last year after months of negotiations,calls on Japan to stop selling cut-price chips in world marketsand to raise its imports of U.S. Semiconductors.    Senior U.S. Officials have accused Tokyo of failing to liveup to the accord and have threatened retaliatory action.    Yesterday, Tamura's Ministry of International Trade andIndustry (MITI) launched a last-ditch attempt to salvage thepact by writing letters to U.S. Policy makers setting outJapan's case and telling Japanese chip makers to cut output.    In his letter, the contents of which were released today,Tamura said a MITI survey carried out at the beginning of Marchshowed Japanese producers were not selling at cut-rate pricesin Asian markets.    In a separate letter sent to senior U.S. Officials, MITIvice minister for international affairs Makoto Kuroda suggestedthe two countries could conduct a joint investigation intoallegations of Japanese chip dumping in such markets. REUTER
YEUTTER SAYS U.S.-JAPAN TRADE DIFFICULTIES REMAIN U.S. Trade RepresentativeClayton Yeutter said he was unsure whether some of the tradeissues straining U.S.-Japanese relations would be resolvedbefore the two countries open trade talks in late April.    "We are having high level discussions on them (the issues)within the United States...The relationship on some of those isvery strained between us (Japan) at the moment and we need torelieve those strains at the earliest possible date," he said.    "I am not sure we can wait until late April," he added.    Yeutter is in New Zealand for a two-day informal meeting oftrade ministers who are reviewing the Uruguay round of theGeneral Agreement on Trade and Tariffs (GATT).    He said he will meet the Japanese delegation over the nextfew days but declined to discuss methods of relieving thestrain between the two countries.    Yeutter said earlier the three most contentious tradeissues were semiconductors, Japanese government unwillingnessto allow public entities to buy U.S. Super-computers and thebarring of U.S. Firms from the eight billion U.S. Dlr Kansaiairport project near Osaka.    The Japanese delegation to the GATT talks said in astatement yesterday they are making major efforts to dismantletrade barriers in their country.    "I am convinced that they are attempting to move theirpolicies in the right direction. The question is how far andhow fast," Yeutter said. REUTER
GERMAN FEBRUARY IMPORT PRICES FALL Import prices in West Germany fell0.7 pct in February from January to stand 15.6 pct below theirlevel in February 1986, the Federal Statistics Office said.    In January the import price index, base 1980, was unchangedcompared with December but 17.8 pct lower against January 1986.    February export prices, same base as import prices, wereunchanged compared with January and 2.5 pct lower than inFebruary 1986.    In January export prices fell 0.3 pct against December tostand 3.0 pct lower than in January 1986. REUTER
PHILIPPINE TRADE SECRETARY PLEASED WITH GATT TALKS Philippine Secretary ofTrade and Industry Jose Concepcion, who two days ago expresseddoubts about agreements produced at international conferences,said he was pleased with the latest gathering here.    Concepcion told Reuters in an interview that the informalGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) meeting gaveministers from more than 20 nations the chance to examineissues with which GATT did not have the political will to deal.    "Also, the role of the developing countries has beenemphasised in this particular meeting. Somehow it has been theperception of developing countries that GATT is a club of richcountries," he added in an interview with Reuters.    "In fact many of the issues that have been tabled fordiscussion (in the Uruguay round of trade negotiations) will beof more benefit to the developed countries," he said.    Concepcion said at the start of the Taupo meeting that theUruguay round was meant to be a "shining act of faith" in theworld trade system.    Concepcion said the Philippines would address the issues oftrade in tropical fruit and the improvement of GATT machineryto make it more responsive.    He said tropical fruit came from developing countries butfaced non-tariff barriers, quantitative restrictions or veryhigh duties in other nations. Concepcion named Japan and SouthKorea as examples.    He said he would go to Wellington for talks with NewZealand, which had a surplus in trade with the Philippines, toencourage it to switch imports from other countries. He notedthat New Zealand bought its bananas from Ecuador. REUTER
YEUTTER SEES GATT CONSENSUS ON FARM TRADE REFORM U.S. Trade RepresentativeClayton Yeutter said trade ministers meeting here have reacheda general consensus on agricultural trade reform under thelatest Uruguay round of the General Agreement on Tariffs andTrade (GATT).    Yeutter gave no precise details of the understanding buttold journalists the consensus covers the principles involvedin agricultural trade reform and what needs to be done toimprove the global situation in agriculture.    Delegates from 22 countries are meeting informally todiscuss progress made since the latest GATT round was launchedin Punta del Este, Uruguay, last September.    Yeutter said "at least people seem to be going down the sameroad...But how that translates ultimately into negotiations isanother matter entirely."    There seems to be an understanding of the need to deal withthe problem quickly and "a more common understanding of how weare going to get from here to there," Yeutter said.    However, the hard work is still to come, with a couple ofyears of tough negotiations ahead, he said.    "It is ludicrous for the nations of the world to ploughimmense amounts of financial resources into the production ofitems that nobody wants to buy," he said.    He said the long-term answer is to switch some of thefinancial resources now committed to agriculture to other moreproductive areas. This would help agriculture because some itsinefficient non-productive segments would stop operating, hesaid.    Individual segments in many countries may lose in theprocess, but it should result in a more rational system ofworld-wide production within 10 or 15 years, he said.    It is important that the agriculture negotiations reach arelatively early conclusion because the U.S. Is spending 26billion dlrs a year and the European Community probably morethan that, which is an ineffective use of financial resources,he said.    Asked about the prospect of a priority for agriculture inthe negotiations, he said "one has to be politicallyrealistic... If there is any chance of getting it (agriculturaltrade reform) done in two to three years it's going to have tobe as part of a larger package." REUTER
NAKASONE INTERVENES IN MICROCHIP DISPUTE Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasoneintervened to try to resolve Japan's escalating dispute withthe U.S. Over semiconductor trade, government officials said.    At today's Cabinet meeting, Nakasone told Trade andIndustry Minister Hajime Tamura to redouble his efforts to calmU.S. Anger over what it sees as Japan's unfair trade practicesin semiconductors.    Nakasone intervened only two days before a scheduledmeeting of the Reagan administration's Economic Policy Councilto consider whether Japan is reneging on its microchip pactwith the U.S.    That pact, agreed last year after months of negotiations,calls on Japan to stop selling cut-price chips in world marketsand to raise its imports of U.S. Semiconductors.    Senior U.S. Officials have accused Tokyo of failing to liveup to the accord and have threatened retaliatory action.    Yesterday, Tamura's Ministry of International Trade andIndustry (MITI) launched a last-ditch attempt to salvage thepact by writing letters to U.S. Policy makers setting outJapan's case and telling Japanese chip makers to cut output.    In his letter, the contents of which were released today,Tamura said a MITI survey carried out at the beginning of Marchshowed Japanese producers were not selling at cut-rate pricesin Asian markets.    In a separate letter sent to senior U.S. Officials, MITIvice minister for international affairs Makoto Kuroda suggestedthe two countries could conduct a joint investigation intoallegations of Japanese chip dumping in such markets. REUTER
CANADA OUTLINES GATT AGRICULTURAL REFORM PLAN Canadian Trade Minister PatCarney said that agricultural policies should not hurt worldinternational trade and should therefore become more priceresponsive over time.    She told delegates at the informal meeting of tradeministers that this was one of five principles Canada wantedadopted in reforming agriculture in the General Agreement onTariffs and Trade (GATT). Secondly, support for agricultureshould avoid production incentives, and thirdly, countriesshould freeze and seek to reduce government aid measures thatdistorted world prices, Carney said.    Carney said the fourth principle was that countries shouldnot introduce new import barriers not mandated by existinglegislation and the fifth was that these basic principles mustbe implemented collectively.    Carney later told Reuters the Canadian guidelines arebasically compatible with the seven point Australian proposalsannounced in Davos, Switzerland, in January.    European trade sources said the conference welcomed theCanadian initiative but some delegates, and not only theEuropean Community, voiced reservations about some of theprinciples.    Carney said there was a lot of political will among theministers here to complete the Uruguay Round of GATT in underfour years and that there is also a realisation that it has tobe done in a balanced way.    "The consensus view was to proceed as fast as we can on abroad front and see what areas emerge where we can get earlyconclusion," she said.    However, the meeting did not identify what those areas are,Carney said.  She said Canada/U.S. Bilateral tradenegotiations, which must be concluded at least in draft form byOctober, are progressing well. REUTER
JAPAN ECONOMY MAY START BOTTOMING OUT SOON -AGENCY Japan's economy remains sluggish but isbeginning to show signs it may bottom out soon, the EconomicPlanning Agency said in a monthly report submitted to Cabinetministers.    But a bottoming out of the economy depends largely on theyen's exchange rate trend in the immediate future, Agencyofficials said.    The officials told reporters industrial production, down0.5 pct in January from December, is likely to turn positive inFebruary and to rise thereafter, raising hopes for a brightereconomic outlook.    The Agency predicted industrial production will grow 2.5pct in the current January/March quarter after falling 0.7 pctin the previous quarter.    A rise of this size would be the largest since the fourthquarter of 1984 when industrial output rose 2.7 pct, theofficials said.    They also said an expected upturn in exports would be amixed blessing as it would contribute to economic growth butwould increase the chance of trade friction.    Japanese exports contracted five pct in February fromJanuary but are likely to grow from March if the yen stabilizesaround current levels, the officials said.    They predicted exports will increase by 2.3 pct in theJanuary/March quarter from the October/December quarter.    "But the problem is imports are not expanding," said oneofficial. Imports fell by 9.4 pct in February from January. REUTER
YEUTTER SAYS U.S.-JAPAN TRADE DIFFICULTIES REMAIN U.S. Trade RepresentativeClayton Yeutter said he was unsure whether some of the tradeissues straining U.S.-Japanese relations would be resolvedbefore the two countries open trade talks in late April.    "We are having high level discussions on them (the issues)within the United States...The relationship on some of those isvery strained between us (Japan) at the moment and we need torelieve those strains at the earliest possible date," he said.    "I am not sure we can wait until late April," he added.    Yeutter is in New Zealand for a two-day informal meeting oftrade ministers who are reviewing the Uruguay round of theGeneral Agreement on Trade and Tariffs (GATT).    He said he will meet the Japanese delegation over the nextfew days but declined to discuss methods of relieving thestrain between the two countries.    Yeutter said earlier the three most contentious tradeissues were semiconductors, Japanese government unwillingnessto allow public entities to buy U.S. Super-computers and thebarring of U.S. Firms from the eight billion U.S. Dlr Kansaiairport project near Osaka.    The Japanese delegation to the GATT talks said in astatement yesterday they are making major efforts to dismantletrade barriers in their country.    "I am convinced that they are attempting to move theirpolicies in the right direction. The question is how far andhow fast," Yeutter said. REUTER
TAIWAN PROPOSES FURTHER TARIFF CUTS Taiwan said it plans another round oftariff cuts, possibly within a month, to try to narrow itstrade surplus with the U.S.    Vice Finance Minister Ronald Ho said a high-level economiccommittee recommended tariff cuts on 66 products requested byWashington, including apples, chocolates and fruit juice.    Ho said the cuts may come into effect by the end of nextmonth.    Taiwan's trade surplus with the U.S. Widened in the firsttwo months of this year to 2.35 billion dlrs from 1.87 billiondlrs in the same period last year. REUTER
TAIWAN PROPOSES FURTHER TARIFF CUTS Taiwan said it plans another round oftariff cuts, possibly within a month, to try to narrow itstrade surplus with the U.S.    Vice Finance Minister Ronald Ho said a high-level economiccommittee recommended tariff cuts on 66 products requested byWashington, including apples, chocolates and fruit juice.    Ho said the cuts may come into effect by the end of nextmonth.    Taiwan's trade surplus with the U.S. Widened in the firsttwo months of this year to 2.35 billion dlrs from 1.87 billiondlrs in the same period last year. REUTER
GATT ROUND MAY STOP GROWING TRADE PROBLEMS: U.S. A successful new GATT(General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) round is needed tohalt growing bilateral trade problems between major tradingpartners, U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said.    Yeutter, in New Zealand for informal GATT ministerialtalks, told Reuters bilateral trade disputes are increasingbecause the multilateral system is inefficient.    "That is really a strong rationale why we need a new GATTround," he said. "The very existence of all these bilateralirritants clearly emphasises the need to develop multilateralsolutions to some of these problems."    The eighth GATT round of negotiations was launched at Puntadel Este in Uruguay in September 1986. Agriculture and serviceswere included in the negotiations for the first time.    The growing debt burden of Latin American and Africannations will also provide impetus for the GATT round tosucceed, he said. "Clearly those countries need to develop theirexport endeavours and they need open markets for that to happenand that's the basic objective of the new GATT round."    But he said the GATT round is a long term endeavour. Itwill not give any short term relief for debt ridden countries,but it will make a difference in 10 to 15 years.    "It's a worthwhile activity from their standpoint becausethese debts are not going to go away in the next year or two,"he said.    "They ought to be very strongly supported in the GATT roundas a mechanism for relieving their debt burdens or makingpossible debt amortisation in the future," he said. Reuter
U.S. ECONOMY SHOWS PROMISING SIGNS OF GROWTH The U.S. economy is showing somepromising signs of accelerated expansion despite thesluggishness of the fourth quarter last year, privateeconomists say.    Some of the slowness experienced in the October-Decemberperiod had been expected to spill over into the first quarterthis year, as the tax law changes that went into effect inJanuary slowed business and consumer spending.    But some of the latest economic data show signs ofsurprising strength in the U.S. economy, although someeconomists remain cautious about the outlook.    The Commerce Department reported today that new orders fordurable goods in February jumped by 5.7 billion dlrs, a six pctrise, to 101.2 billion dlrs. Even excluding volatile defensegoods, durable goods orders rose a healthy 3.8 pct, the agencysaid.    The February numbers surpassed the expectations of manyfinancial analysts, whose predictions ranged from flat toincreases of up to five pct.    The January/February employment statistics suggest theGross National Product will show a healthy rate of growth forthe first three months of this year, said Lyle Gramley, aneconomist with the Mortgage Bankers Association.    The U.S. jobless rate in February and January was 6.7 pct,the lowest rate since March 1980. The number of new non-farmjobs rose by 337,000 in February after a 319,000 gain inJanuary and a 225,000 December increase, the government said.    The employment data suggests a GNP annual growth rate ofabout three to 3.25 pct in the first quarter, said Gramley.    Much of that will be attributed to businesses rebuildingtheir inventories and is not likely to be sustained in thesecond quarter, Gramley said. He expects a slowdown in thesecond quarter with smaller increases in personal consumptionand government spending. He also sees residential constructiondeclining mostly for multi-family housing units.    Fidelity Bank senior economist Mickey Levy said some of thefourth quarter slowness will continue.    Levy predicts GNP will grow at a scant 1.5 pct rate in thefirst quarter of 1987, accelerate during the second quarter andshow a brisk 4.5 pct annual rate in the third quarter.    The key to both forecasts is a marked improvement in theU.S. trade balance which is expected because of the decline inthe dollar's value over the last year and half.    "The improvement will be gradual and long lasting," Levypredicted. Most of it will be through import reduction, but atleast one-third will be due to a rise in product exports as theprices of U.S. goods become more attractive overseas.    The Reagan administration has predicted the trade deficit,which soared to record levels last year, will improve this yearand the U.S. economy will grow by a respectable 3.2 pct for theyear compared with a 2.5 pct rate last year.    As part of the effort to reduce the trade deficit, the U.S.has been pressing West Germany and Japan to stimulate theirdomestic demand for goods from the U.S. and others.    U.S. officials believe that would help take some of thepressure off the United States whose five years of economicgrowth has been the mainstay of developing countries.    The U.S. economy provided them with a giant market fortheir goods giving them a way to earn income badly needed toservice their foreign debt.    The government last week said the U.S. economy grew at amodest 1.1 pct annual rate during the fourth quarter.    There were indications of improvement in the huge imbalancebetween the volume of goods imported to the United States andthose shipped abroad. The report showed a rising volume ofexports corresponding to a decline in imports despite the factthat in current dollar terms, the U.S. trade deficit worsenedduring the closing three months of 1986.    While fourth quarter economic growth was weak, corporateprofits jumped a healthy 6.1 pct during the period, thegovernment said. It also reported that inflation, as measuredby the GNP price deflator, remained in check, growing amoderate 0.7 pct in the period, the lowest rise in 19 years.    The government also reported that consumer spending, a keyelement of the five year economic recovery, jumped 1.7 pct inFebruary, after falling two pct in January.    The Federal Reserve Board also reported that themanufacturing sector, which had been one of the weaker elementsof the U.S. economy, was showing signs of recovery.    In its latest report on current economic conditions, theFed said that economic activity in the various regions of thecountry ranged from uneven or steady to improving.Manufacturing activity showed signs of improvement in mostregions except Dallas where orders remained sluggish.    Chase Econometrics Chairman Lawrence Chimerine said thepick up in the U.S. manufacturing sector is largely due to thedrop in the dollar's value. He said he does not foresee a majorpick up in economic activity, but does not believe the economywill slip into recession either.    He said higher prices on imported products and wage cutsthat have helped the manufacturing sector will squeezeconsumers purchasing power.    "That pattern is starting and will continue for a number ofyears," Chimerine said. He sees economic growth hovering arounda modest two pct level for the next few years. Reuter
INDONESIA URGED TO DEREGULATE ITS ECONOMY World Bank President Barber Conablelinked increased borrowing by Indonesia, the Third World'ssixth largest debtor, to fresh measures to deregulate trade anddismantle protectionist barriers.    "We would like to see the Indonesian government continue theadjustment process ... To move towards increased deregulationof the economy," Conable told a press conference at the end of athree-day visit to Jakarta.    Conable directly linked further Bank help for Indonesia'shard-pressed balance of payments to further measures by thegovernment to reduce protectionism and increase efficiency.    The World Bank last month granted Indonesia a 300 mln dlrtrade adjustment loan. He said further loans would depend onthe economic policies Indonesia adopted.    But he said that in meetings with both President Suhartoand leading Indonesian ministers he had not called for specificpolicy changes.    "The initiative will have to rest with the Indonesiangovernment. We are not here to dictate to them," he stated.    Indonesia, the only Asian member of Opec, has been badlyhit by last year's slump in oil prices which cut its revenuesfrom crude exports in half.    Conable had what he termed a frank meeting this morningwith Suharto.    He voiced support for measures already taken, includingSeptember's 31 pct devaluation of the rupiah, and efforts toderegulate imports and stimulate exports.    "The government can rely on the support of the World Bank ina continuing program of adjustment to the economic realities oftoday's world," he said.    The Bank has loaned Indonesia 10.7 billion dlrs over thepast 20 years. Lending is now about one billion a year.    The World Bank would probably like to see furtherdismantling of tarrif barriers and measures to reduceIndonesia's protected monopolies in areas like steel, plasticsand cement, western bankers and diplomats said.    The government has already said it will announce furtherderegulation measures, but has given no timetable. It is alsoconsidering selling off loss-making state companies.    Conable said the Bank would try to help Indonesia findfunds to cover its share of development projects, whichotherwise would have to be scrapped or postponed. Japan's Ex-Imbank announced a 900 mln dlr untied credit last month. REUTER
FED'S HELLER SAYS HE WANTS TO SEE STRONGER JAPANESE DEMAND FOR AMERIC Qtly div 11 cts vs 11 cts prior qtr    Pay 30 April    Record 15 April Reuter
FED'S HELLER URGES JAPANESE TO BUY U.S. GOODS A member of the Federal ReserveBoard, Robert Heller, said he wanted to see stronger Japanesedemand for American goods.    "What I was advocating here was more Japanese purchases ofAmerican goods," Heller said in response to a question about thedollar's weakness in currency markets.    He told a Heritage Foundation forum, "I'd be very happy tosee that."    In his formal remarks, Heller said he supported the idea ofusing commodity prices as an indicator for monetary policy.    Asked if he would raise the issue at the next Federal OpenMarket Committee meeting, he said, "Even at previous meetingscommodity prices were raised."    He added, "I would not expect future meetings to bedifferent from past meetings in that respect." Reuter
U.S. HOUSE PANEL EASES SOVIET EXPORT CONTROLS The U.S. House Foreign AffairsCommittee voted to ease restrictions on exports that are nowkept from shipment to Soviet-bloc countries but are no longer athreat to U.S. national security.    The Democratic-controlled committee said theadministration's export control policies, which restrictshipment of thousands of products, contributed to last year'srecord 169 billion dlr U.S. trade deficit.    The committee said the legislation will cut government redtape and make it easier for U.S. companies to compete withforeign producers since many of the goods are readily availablefrom other countries.    Rep. Don Bonker, chairman of the International EconomicPolicy subcommittee, said the unnecessary restrictions had costthe U.S. 17 billion dlrs in exports a year.    "This is Congress' number one opportunity to attack thetrade deficit in a positive way by exporting more," theWashington Democrat said.    The legislation would order the Commerce Department to liftcontrols on 40 pct of goods on the restricted export list overthe next three years unless other countries agree to comparablecontrols.    Most of these are of the least sophisticated type oftechnology such as medical instruments.    It would also give the Commerce Department primaryauthority to decide which exports will be permitted and limitthe Defense Department to an advisory role in reviewingrequests to export highly-sensitive technology. Reuter
BALDRIGE SUPPORTS NIC TALKS ON CURRENCIES Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrigesaid he supported efforts to persuade newly-industrializedcountries (NICS) to revalue currencies that are tied to thedollar in order to help the United States cut its massive tradedeficit.    "We do need to do something with those currencies or wewill be substituting Japanese products for Taiwanese products,"or those of other nations with currencies tied to the dollar,Baldrige told a House banking subcommittee.    The U.S. dollar has declined in value against the Yen andEuropean currencies, but has changed very little against thecurrencies of some developing countries such as South Korea andTaiwan because they are linked to the value of the dollar.    As a result, efforts to reduce the value of the dollar overthe past year and a half have done little to improve the tradedeficits with those countries.    Baldrige told a House Banking subcommittee that theTreasury Department was attempting to persuade those countriesto reach agreement with the United States on exchange rates. Reuter
UNIONIST URGES RETALIATION AGAINST JAPAN William Bywater, president of theInternational Union of Electronic Workers, called on PresidentReagan to retaliate against Japan for unfair practices insemiconductor trade.    He said in a statement a crash program was needed in thesemiconductor industry to prevent the United States frombecoming "one of the world's industrial lightweights."    Bywater's remarks came as the White House Economic PolicyCouncil prepared for a Thursday meeting to decide whatsanctions if any should be taken against Japan for alleged violations of a U.S.-Japanese semiconductors agreement.    The pact, agreed to last July, called for Tokyo to endselling semiconductors at below cost and to open its homemarket to U.S. goods. In return, Washington agreed to foregoantidumping duties on Japanese semiconductors.    But U.S. officials have said that while Japan has stoppeddumping in the U.S. market, it has not ended third countrydumping; nor has it opened its market to U.S. semiconductors.    Japan yesterday, in an effort to ward off U.S. action,ordered a cutback in semiconductors production as a way toforce prices up and end the dumping.    Bywater, in his statement, said he backed a Defense ScienceBoard task force proposal to set up a consortium to develop newelectronic products and manufacturing processes and make theU.S. industory more competitive.    But he added the industry could not wait for legislation topass and that action was required now to help the depressedelectronic industry.    Bywater said, "I urge the Reagan Administration to take fulland severe action immediately against Japan by invoking theretaliatory steps that are permitted under U.S. law and GATT(General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade)." Reuter
BRAZIL COMPUTER MARKET TO REMAIN CLOSED-MINISTER Brazilian Science and TechnologyMinister Renato Archer said Brazil will keep its computermarket closed to foreign goods in order to give its own infantindustry time to develop.    "Every country establishes laws to protect its interests.The United States closed their borders at a certain stage tosome foreign goods and therefore protected its industrialdevelopment. Now it is time for Brazil to do likewise," Archersaid at the opening of a national software conference.    After several meetings, Brazil and the U.S. Have made nomajor progress in their computer row, which they have beentrying to resolve for the past 18 months.    The Reagan administration has objected to Brazil protectingits computer industry from imports. Reuter
U.S. SENATORS SEEK TO EXPAND USDA EXPORT BONUS Leading U.S. farm state senators areseeking to insert into the Senate's omnibus trade bill aprovision that would broaden eligibility requirements under theU.S. Agriculture Department's export enhancement program, EEP,to include traditional buyers of U.S. farm products, includingthe Soviet Union, Senate staff said.    Under existing criteria, USDA can offer EEP subsidies torecoup export markets lost to competing nations' unfair tradingpractices.    Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.)is leading a group of farm state senators in an effort tobroaden the criteria in such a way as to enable Moscow to beeligible for the subsidies, sources said.    The senators -- including Senate Finance Committee ChairmanLloyd Bentsen (D-Tex.), Max Baucus (D-Mont.), David Pryor(D-Ark.), John Melcher (D-Mont.) and Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) --also may fold into the trade bill a measure to shield porkproducers and processors from Canadian imports.    The measure, sponsored by Sen. Charles Grassley (R-Iowa),would clarify the definition of "industry" in determining whetheror not imports were causing injury to U.S. producers.    Grassley's bill stems from a 1985 decision by theInternational Trade Commission that imports from Canada of liveswine -- but not fresh, chilled and frozen pork -- were harmingU.S. producers.    The bill's proponents have argued Canada has simplyreplaced shipments of live hogs with fresh pork. Reuter
CANADA VOWS TO FIGHT U.S. POTASH ACTION External Affairs Minister Joe Clarktoday vowed to do everything possible to fight the U.S. actionagainst Canadian potash exports, but also warned againstraising the alarm too early in the dispute.    In the latest flashpoint in Canadian-U.S. trade relations,the U.S. International Trade Commission ruled unanimouslyMonday that Canadian potash shipments valued at 270 millionU.S. dlrs last year were injuring the U.S. industry.    "We certainly intend to do everything we can to insure thatCanadian interests are well protected," Clark told the House ofCommons in the daily question period.    But he said the opposition parties should be careful "notto raise false alarms too early."    The case now goes before the U.S. Commerce Department'strade division to determine if a duty should be imposed. Potashproducers from New Mexico, claiming unfair governmentsubsidies, are seeking a 43 pct tariff on Canada's shipments.    Canada, the world's largest potash producer, exported 9.8mln metric tonnes of potash last year, with nearly a thirdgoing to the U.S.    Most of the potash, used in the production of fertilizer,comes from provincially owned mines in Saskatchewan.    In the Commons, Liberal member Lloyd Axworthy branded theruling as just another "trade harrassment" from the U.S. andcriticized Clark's assurances the country's interests would beprotected.    "We received exactly the same kind of assurances in thesoftwood lumber case that was totally fumbled and bumbled,"Axworthy said.    Canada's Progressive Conservative government agreed toimpose a 15 pct duty on its softwood lumber exports earlierthis year to end a long and bitter bilateral trade dispute withthe U.S.    Axworthy urged the government to present Canada's case toworld trade authorities under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.    But Clark maintained the potash dispute was another exampleof why Canada needs to find a new way to settle bilateralirritants in the free trade negotiations under way with theU.S.    "What we are seeking to do is put in place a bettersystem," Clark said.    Meanwhile, Saskatchewan Trade Minister Bob Andrew expressedconfidence Canada would win its case, claiming the problemstems from low international commodity prices and notgovernment subsidies.    "The reality of the problem and the injury is causedworldwide," he said. "It's caused by a downturn in thecommodity price for fertilizer, whether it's potash fertilizer,nitrogen fertilizer or whatever." Reuter
N.Z. TRADE SURPLUS 119.1 MLN DLRS IN FEBRUARY Preliminary trade figures forFebruary show an excess of exports over imports of 119.1 mlnN.Z. Dlrs, a Statistics Department statement said.    This compares with a 3.3 mln dlr deficit (revised from 1.7mln) in January and a 36.1 mln dlr deficit in February 1986.    Exports rose to 998.4 mln dlrs, from 889.2 mln (revisedfrom 889.5) in January and 903.2 in February 1986. Importsdropped to an estimated 879.4 mln dlrs from 892.5 (revised from891.2) in January and 939.3 in February 1986. The deficit forthe eight months to the end of February was 15.3 mln dlrs, asagainst 1.057 billion dlrs in the same period a year ago. REUTER
BANGLADESH'S PAYMENTS DEFICIT NARROWS IN OCTOBER Bangladesh recorded an overall balance ofpayments deficit of 8.3 mln U.S. Dlrs in October against a10.33 mln deficit in September and a 6.67 mln surplus inOctober 1985, Central Bank officials said.    The country's current account deficit narrowed to 10.69 mlndlrs in October from 79 mln in September and 11.75 mln inOctober 1985.    The October trade deficit narrowed to 36.36 mln dlrs from160 mln in September and 83.79 mln in October 1985. REUTER
BELGOLUX TRADE SWINGS INTO JANUARY DEFICIT The Belgo-Luxembourg Economic Unionrecorded a provisional trade deficit of 9.45 billion francs inJanuary after a December surplus of 15.32 billion francs,revised upwards from a provisional surplus of 11.94 billion,the National Statistics Office said.    In January 1986, the union recorded a deficit of 23.31billion francs.    January imports fell to a provisional 228.86 billion francsfrom 240.24 billion in December and 281.65 billion a yearearlier, but exports were also lower, at 219.41 billion francsagainst 255.56 billion and 258.34 billion respectively. REUTER
TAIWAN SEES ITS INVESTMENT IN U.S. RISING SHARPLY Taiwanese investment in the U.S. Isexpected to nearly double to 80 mln U.S. Dlrs in calendar 1987and rise to 400 mln dlrs a year by 1991, a five-year forecastby the Economic Ministry showed.    Taiwanese investment in the U.S. Last year totalled 46 mlndlrs, the ministry document said. The investment was mainly inelectronics, trading, food and service industries.    Lee Ming-Yi, deputy director of the ministry's IndustrialDevelopment and Investment Centre, said the forecast rise isdue to planned government incentives and growing willingnessamong Taiwanese to invest abroad.    Lee told Reuters the incentives, to be introduced in May orJune, include bank loans and a reduction in capitalisationrequirements for businesses seeking to invest in the U.S. To 10mln Taiwan dlrs from 20 mln.    He said the moves to encourage investment in the U.S. Arepart of Taiwan's efforts to cut its trade surplus withWashington, which rose to a record 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs in1986 from 1985's 10.2 billion.    Taiwanese manufacturers can create jobs for Americans andavoid import quotas if they set up plants in the U.S., Headded. REUTER
CHINA TO TIGHTEN IMPORT CONTROL, CUT EXPORT COSTS China should tighten imports of ordinarygoods and restrict or even forbid import of goods which can bemade domestically, Premier Zhao Ziyang said.    He told the National People's Congress, China's parliament,that the country's foreign exchange is limited and must be usedwhere it is most needed.    "We should expand production of import substitutes andincrease their proportion," he said.    On exports, China should increase its proportion ofmanufactured goods, especially textiles, light industrialgoods, electronics and machinery, he said.    Zhao said China should lower the cost of exports andcontrol the export of goods that incur too much loss. In 1986China had a trade deficit of 11.9 billion dlrs, down from arecord 14 billion in 1985.    Zhao said China should work to provide a more favourableinvestment environment for foreign businessmen. It should useforeign funds for production and construction, with stress onfirms making goods for export or import substitutes.    China should also earn more foreign exchange from touristsand contracted labour abroad, he added. REUTER
HOUSE WAYS AND MEANS CMTE FINISHES WORK ON BILL TO TOUGHEN TR Cherokee Group said ithas filed for an offering of 2,500,000 common shares, including700,000 to be sold by shareholders, through underwriters FirstBoston Inc <FBC> and American Express Co <AXP> unit ShearsonLehman Brothers Inc.    It said it will use its proceeds to repay bank debt, forcapital spending and for general corporate purposes includingpossible acquisitions. Reuter
KEY U.S. HOUSE PANEL FINISHES MAJOR TRADE BILL The House Ways and Means Committeecompleted action on legislation to toughen U.S. trade laws,chairman Dan Rostenkowski said.    The committee's consideration of one of the mostcontroversial provisions, a plan to force major trade surpluscountries to cut their trade imbalance with the United States,was deferred until the full House considers the trade bill, itssponsor Rep. Richard Gephardt said.    Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat, told Reuters he was notcertain the exact form his trade surplus reduction proposalwould take. Last year the House approved his plan to force a 10pct surplus cutback each year for four years, by countries suchas Japan.    The Ways and Means Committess' trade bill forces PresidentReagan to retaliate against unfair trade practices that violateinternational trade agreements but it allows him to waveretaliatory tariffs or quotas if the action would hurt the U.S.economy.    The trade bill gives U.S. Trade Representative ClaytonYeutter more authority in trade negotiations and in decisionsto grant domestic industries import relief.    It also gives him authority to decide whether foreign tradepractices are unfair and violate U.S. trading rights. Thesepowers are currently held by President Reagan.    The administration has strongly objected to this transferof authority from Reagan to Yeutter.    The bill also extends U.S. authority to negotiatemultilateral trade agreements. The bill will be wrapped intoother trade legislation and voted on in the House in April. Reuter
U.S. SENATE PANEL APPROVES TRADE MISSION BILL The U.S. Senate AgricultureCommittee approved a bill that would establish farm trade andaid missions to promote the use of U.S. food aid, donation,credit and export subsidy programs by overseas customers.    The bill, approved by voice vote, would establish trademissions made up of representatives of the Departments ofAgriculture and State, the Agency for InternationalDevelopment, the Overseas Private Investment Corp, marketdevelopment cooperatives and private voluntary organizations.    At least 16 missions would have to be sent within one yearafter enactment of the bill. The missions would promote U.S.programs, including PL480, Section 416 donations, ExportEnhancement Program, the dairy export incentive program, andexport credit guarantee programs (GSM-102, GSM-103).    The panel agreed to drop a provision in the original bill,offered by Sen. John Melcher (D-Mont.), that would haverequired the U.S. Agriculture Department to donate at least onemln tonnes of surplus commodities to developing countries.    Current law requires USDA to donate at least 750,000 tonnesof surplus grains and dairy products under the Section 416 fooddonation program.    The Congressional Budget Office estimated that the proposedincrease in the minimum tonnage requirement would have cost upto 50 mln dlrs per year, Senate staff said.    The committee also dropped a provision identifying whichcountries would be the focus of the trade missions' activities.    Under the bill adopted by the committee, countries "friendlyto the United States" would be eligible to host the trademissions.    Melcher originally had proposed sending missions to Mexico,the Philippines, Indonesia, Bangladesh, Senegal, Nigeria, Peru,Kenya, the Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, Malaysia, Venezuela,Tunisia and Morocco.    The bill also would require the Foreign AgriculturalService, FAS, to have at least 850 full-time employees duringfiscal years 1987-89. As of February 28, FAS had 790 full-timeemployees, a FAS spokesman said. Reuter
BALDRIGE SAYS JAPAN MUST OPEN ITS MARKETS Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrigesaid the United States will not stand idly by and let Japandominate the world electronics market.    Baldrige told the Senate Finance Committee the UnitedStates would insist Japan open its markets to U.S. products asthe U.S. market is open to Japanese products.    Asked after his testimony if this meant the United Stateswould close its markets to Japan if they did not open theirs,Baldrige said, "I'm not prepared to say that, but it certainlywould be one of the alternatives studied."    Baldrige said in his testimony Japan had a closedsupercomputer market and a restricted telecommunicationsmarket.    "I can only conclude that the common objective of theJapanese government and industry is to dominate the worldelectronics market. Given the importance of this market to U.S.industry in general and our defense base in particular, wecannot stand by idly," he said.    He said it was these concerns about national security whichled him to express reservations over the proposed acquisitionof Fairchild Semiconductor by Fujitsu of Japan. Reuter
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES WILL REDUCE TRADE DEFICIT T Utah Power and Light Co said it filedan application with the Idaho Public Utilities Commission torefinance preferred stock that was issued when interest rateswere higher.    Subject to approval, the utility plans to sell nearly 95mln dlrs of first mortgage bonds in the second quarter toredeem all of its outstanding Series F, H and I preferred.    It will buy back the Series F at 26.61 dlrs per share,Series H at 27.03 dlrs and Series I at 27.32 dlrs, plus accrueddividends. Similar applications will be filed with the Utah andWyoming public utility commissions, Utah Power said. Reuter
TREASURY'S BAKER SEES CUT IN TRADE DEFICIT Treasury Secretary James Baker saidthe administration is confident the effect of exchange ratechanges will bring about a cut in the trade deficit this year.    In testimony before the Senate Committee on GovernmentalAffairs, Baker conceded that the effect thus far has "not yetproved as quick or as strong as had been expected from pastexperience."    He told the committee, however, that the "initial signs areencouraging." Reuter
TREASURY'S BAKER OUTLINES TRADE BILL CRITICISMS Treasury Secretary James Baker saidthat some of the trade bills proposed by Congress conflictsignificantly with certain basic principles the Reaganadministration considers critical.    Baker told a Senate committee that the administration wouldresist such measures as a general import surcharge,sector-specific protection such as import quotas for individualproducts, mandatory retaliation, and limits on presidentialdiscretion in negotiating more open markets abroad and othertrade steps. Reuter
U.S. SENATE TRADE LEADER CONCERNED ABOUT CANADA The chairman of the U.S. Senatecommittee with jurisdiction over trade said he was concernedabout a resolution on bilateral trade negotiations adopted bythe Canadian House of Commons last week.    The resolution supports negotiation of a bilateral tradingagreement with the United States while protecting Canadianpolitical sovereignty, social programs, agricultural marketingsystems, the auto industry and Canada's cultural identity.    Senate Finance Committee chairman Lloyd Bentsen said theresolution may jeopardize the viability of the proposed freetrade agreement between the two countries, which are eachother's largest trading partners.    "We need a truly free trade agreement, which means bothcountries have to work toward a deal that is mutuallybeneficial and comprehensive, a large agreement," the TexasDemocrat said in a statement.    "I do not question Canada's right to protect its politicalsovereignty or cultural identity. However, if these phrasesmean the government of Canada means to take important economicissues off the table in these negotiations, I am deeplyconcerned," he added.    Bentsen said Canada restricts trade 15 different ways whilethe United States uses only six trade restriction methods. Hesaid if Canada proposes an agreement where both countries getrid of six methods of trade restriction, it would not be fairand might not win Senate approval.    "I am deeply concerned that when the President visits PrimeMinister (Brian) Mulroney next month, he will be presented withthis kind of argument, and I hope he makes it clear -- as I didwhen I was in Canada -- that only a mutually beneficialagreement will be successful," Bentsen said.    Reagan and Mulroney are scheduled to meet April 5-6 inOttawa.    Bentsen urged Mulroney to withdraw a proposal that wouldban imports of independently produced films into Canada bynon-Canadians, which the senator called a protectionistmeasure. Reuter
BRAZIL WANTS TO INCREASE STEEL EXPORTS TO U.S. Brazil wants to increase itssteel exports to the United States, now limited because oftough import restraints set in 1984 by the Reaganadministration, a spokeswoman for the Brazilian Steel Institute(IBS) said.    Brazilian and U.S. Trade officials held the first of athree-day meeting today in Brasilia to discuss the issue.    In 1984, after three months of painstaking negotiations,the U.S. Government reached accords with seven steel-exportingnations - Australia, Brazil, Japan, Mexico, Spain, South Africaand South Korea - to reduce their shipments to the UnitedStates by about 30 pct in 1985.    The 1984 restraints established that for 1987 Brazil'ssteel exports to the U.S. Could not exceed 632,000 tonnes,increasing to 640,000 tonnes in 1988 and 670,000 tonnes in1989, the last of the five-year deadline set by the agreements.    Brazilian officials are trying to increase Brazil's exportshare of non-flat products to the U.S. Market.    The spokeswoman said there were reports of domestic supplyproblems in the United States. Reuter
BALDRIGE SEES U.S. TRADE DEFICIT STARTING TO DECLINE IN FEB OR MA Standard and Poor's Corp said it mayupgrade Wainoco Oil Corp's 25 mln dlrs of C-rated subordinateddebentures due 1998.    S and P cited the company's proposed offering of two mlnunits of common stock and warrants, which would raise 25 mln to30 mln dlrs that would be used to retire bank debt.    The offering would also result in a significantstrengthening of the company's capital structure, S and Ppointed out. However, the agency said it would also considerdepressed industry conditions and Wainoco's ability to operatein that environment. Its implied senior debt rating is CCC. Reuter
BALDRIGE SEES U.S. TRADE GAP DROPPING SOON Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrigesaid the U.S. trade deficit should start to decline soon,possibly in the figures for February or March.    "We could see the trade deficit start down in February orMarch," Baldrige said in an appearance before the SenateGovernmental Affairs Committee.    He predicted the trade deficit, which was 170 billion dlrsin 1986, would decline by 30 to 40 billion dlrs in 1987 and in1988.    Baldrige said he was making his prediction without havingseen the February trade figures, but he said that the volume ofimports has dropped beginning with the fourth quarter of 1986and will continue to drop in this quarter.    The eventual turnaround in the monthly trade figures willreflect the impact of the decline in the dollar, Baldrige said.    Ealier, Treasury Secretary James Baker told the committeethat the trade deficit had levelled off, but Baldrige said hewas more optimistic, adding, "I think we turned the corner inFebruary." Reuter
U.S. CHIPMAKERS URGE SANCTIONS AGAINST JAPAN The Semiconductor IndustryAssociation urged the U.S. government to impose trade sanctionsagainst Japan for violating the U.S.-Japan Semiconductor TradeAgreement.    In a letter to Treasury Secretary James Baker the groupsaid sanctions should be imposed against Japanese chipmakers asof April 1 and should continue until the United States issatisfied that there is full compliance with the agreement.    The group said action by Japan to cut back on semiconductorexports is not what is required.    "America's interests require that agreements be honored andthat U.S. industries not bear the burden for the persistentunwillingness or inability of the government of Japan todeliver on its commitments," the trade group said.    The White House Economic Policy Council is expected todiscuss possible sanctions against Japan at a meeting scheduledfor Thursday.    The trade group said Japan has not lived up to the terms ofthe agreement last year which was aimed at ending Japanesedumping of semiconductors and at opening Japanese markets toforeign-based manufacturers. Reuter
U.S. CHIPMAKERS URGE SANCTIONS AGAINST JAPAN The Semiconductor IndustryAssociation urged the U.S. government to impose trade sanctionsagainst Japan for violating the U.S.-Japan Semiconductor TradeAgreement.    In a letter to Treasury Secretary James Baker the groupsaid sanctions should be imposed against Japanese chipmakers asof April 1 and continue until the U.S. is satisfied there isfull compliance with the agreement.    The group said action by Japan to cut back on semiconductorexports is not what is required.    "America's interests require that agreements be honored andthat U.S. industries not bear the burden for the persistentunwillingness or inability of the government of Japan todeliver on its commitments," the trade group said.    The White House Economic Policy Council is expected todiscuss possible sanctions against Japan at a meeting scheduledfor Thursday.    The trade group said Japan has not lived up to the terms ofthe agreement last year which was aimed at ending Japanesedumping of semiconductors and at opening Japanese markets toforeign-based manufacturers. Reuter
BAKER SEES 15 TO 20 BILLION DLR DROP IN TRADE GAP Treasury Secretary James Baker saidhe expected the U.S. Trade deficit to fall by 15 billion to 20billion dlrs in 1987.    Commenting on the deficit during an interview on Cable NewsNetwork, Baker said "I think you're going to see a 15 to 20billion dlr reduction this year." The deficit was 170 billiondlrs in 1986.    Baker noted that the benefits of a weaker currency take 12to 18 months to affect the trade balance, and said it is now 18months since the Plaza agreement to lower the dollar's value. REUTER
EC LINKS AGRICULTURAL TRADE TALKS TO OTHER REFORM The European Community (EC) considerstalks on agricultural trade reform to be inseperable from talkson other trade reform in the present GATT round, Willy deClercq, external relations commissioner of the EC, said.    He told reporters here the EC would not bow to pressure toreach an early, seperate agreement on agricultural trade.    He said the EC wanted to stick to the four-year scheduleagreed by members of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade(GATT) in Punta del Este, Uruguay, last year. That includedagricultural trade liberalisation for the first time in thelengthy program to re-negotiate the GATT.    Other trade issues being discussed in the current GATTround include reform of trade in merchandise and services.    De Clercq is on his way to China after attending a two-dayconference for 22 GATT trade ministers held in New Zealand.    Several of those ministers criticised the EC for what theysaw as restrictive agricultural trade practices and called forurgent reforms. U.S. Trade representative, Clayton Yeutter,also said it was important agreement on agricultural tradereform was reached as early as possible.    But de Clercq said the GATT program had been reached afterlong and hard negotiations, and the EC did not want changes.    "We just want to stick to the agreement which was reached,and that was very clear -- that the new round would be oneundertaking. It is a global negotiation with no two tracks, nofast track, no slow track. It has just one track, the track -and that's all," de Clercq said.    "If you start selecting priorities, your priority is not mypriority. We say that agriculture is urgent, but it's not theonly urgent thing," he said.    He said the Punte del Este agreement had taken eight monthsto prepare and eight days of negotiations. REUTER
TRADE SURPLUS CUT WOULD BENEFIT JAPAN - SUMITA Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumitasaid it is in Japan's national interest to make greater effortsto reduce its trade surplus.    He told business executives the most important issues forthe world economy are the correction of international tradeimbalances and a solution to the world debt problem.    To this end, Japan and the U.S. Must make medium- andlong-term efforts to alter economic structures which haveexpanded the trade gap between the two nations. World economicgrowth and therefore an expansion of debtor countries' exportmarkets are needed to solve the debt issue, he added. REUTER
GERMAN TRADE, CURRENT ACCOUNT DATA DUE TODAY The Federal Statistics Office willtoday publish trade and current account figures for February, aspokeswoman said in reply to queries.    In January the current account surplus provisionallynarrowed to 4.9 billion marks from 8.5 billion in December. Theprovisional January trade surplus narrowed to 7.2 billion marksfrom a record 11.6 billion marks the month before.    In February 1986 the current account had shown a 6.85billion mark surplus and the trade account a 6.84 billionsurplus. REUTER
KEATING REVISES DOWN AUSTRALIAN GROWTH FORECAST Treasurer Paul Keating forecasteconomic growth at slightly under two pct in the financial yearending June this year, down from the 2.25 pct forecastcontained in the 1986/87 budget delivered last August.    Australia's terms of trade also fell, by 18 pct, over thepast two years, he told Parliament. Terms of trade are thedifference between import and export price indexes.    Despite the figures, the budget forecast of about 1.75 pctannual growth in employment would be met, Keating said.    Unemployment is currently at 8.2 pct of the workforce.    "This government is dragging Australia through a tradingholocaust the kind of which we have not seen since the SecondWorld War," Keating said.    "We are not pushing this place into a recession. We are notonly holding our gains on unemployment, we are bringingunemployment down," he said, adding that the government had helpthe country avoid recession. REUTER
NO PESSIMISM FOR GERMAN EXPORTERS, MINISTRY Firms need not be pessimistic about exportprospects even though foreign markets have become moredifficult because of the mark's strength the Economics Ministrysaid.     The ministry's parliamentary state secretary Ludolf Georgvon Wartenberg, told a business conference German exports couldstart rising again in real terms during 1987, reversing thelower export trend which emerged in mid-1986.    But even if the turnaround did not occur, there would be noneed to worry about the economy as long as the weakness ofexports did not affect currently good domestic demand.    Von Wartenberg said consumer demand remained quite good butnoted there had been a cooling in the investment climate. "Thisis certainly a reason for heightened watchfulness but not forstimulative steps," he said.    The best way for Bonn to help its exporters is to workactively to promote free world trade, he added.    Von Wartenberg said the economy still had good exportopportunities. Price alone was not the only factor ininternational competitiveness, he said, adding German firmshave a reputation for high quality standards, prompt deliverytimes and good service.    Von Wartenberg said the government was in a difficultposition on its trade figures.  It faced international pressureto reduce its trade surplus, but West Germans were worriedabout the effect of the mark's strength on the country'sexporters.    Reports about the trade surplus, especially overseas,tended to concentrate on nominal trade figures, which rose to arecord 112.2 billion marks in 1986, he said. But this rise wasdue entirely to the lower value of imports caused by thedecline of both the dollar and oil prices. German exports havein fact been falling in real terms for sometime, he said. REUTER
UK FEB TRADE DEFICIT 224 MLN STG VS DEFICIT 527 MLN IN JAN - O Gross domestic product (GDP)growth in 1987 is expected to grow by between 1.5 and two pct,up from one pct in 1986, the central bank said.    The forecast compares with the one pct GDP growth forecastmade by the Treasury last October.    Bank Negara also said in its annual report that grossnational product (GNP) is expected to grow by 3.5 to four pct,after declining 7.3 pct in 1986.    It said that a turnaround in investor confidence since lastNovember had been spurred by a moderate improvement in oil andcommodity prices and a rise in manufacturing exports.    Growth in 1987 is expected to come from the anticipatedrise in export earnings if the industrialised countries sustaintheir average GNP growth at 2.5 to three pct, it added.    Bank Negara said its forecast assumes that crude oil willaverage 15.50 dlrs a barrel, rubber at 210 cents a kilo, palmoil at 850 ringgit a tonne, tin at 17 ringgit a kilo and a riseof 12 pct in manufacturing exports.    It said Malaysia's international terms of trade will turnaround to rise by two pct in 1987 after declining 12 pct in1986 and five pct in 1985.    "In 1987, income will be higher, private consumer spendingis likely to recover and expand... The budget will remain understrict control... The resource gap in the government's financeson current account will be bridged over the near term," BankGovernor Jaafar Hussein said in the report.    The current account deficit is expected to narrow to 1.19billion ringgit in 1986 or 1.8 pct of GNP from 1.79 billion or2.5 pct of the GNP the previous year.    The bank forecasts the inflation rate will increase by 1.5pct, after its 0.7 pct rise in 1986. REUTER
U.K. VISIBLE TRADE DEFICIT NARROWS IN FEBRUARY Britain's visible trade deficit narrowedto a seasonally adjusted provisional 224 mln stg in Februaryfrom 527 mln in January, The Trade and Industry Departmentsaid.    The current account balance of payments in February showeda seasonally adjusted provisional surplus of 376 mln stgcompared with a surplus of 73 mln in January.    Invisibles in February were put provisionally at a 600 mlnsurplus, the same as in January.    Seasonally adjusted, imports rose in February to 7.16billion stg from 6.73 billion in January. Exports rose to arecord 6.93 billion last month from 6.20 billion in January.    Trade Department officials said the improvement inBritain's current account contrasted with most privateforecasts and they attributed much of the strength to importsrising less quickly in February than might otherwise have beenexpected.    The Department said exceptionally cold weather in Januaryreduced exports that month and that there had been an elementof catching up in the February figures.    The seasonally adjusted volume index, base 1980, a guide tounderlying non-oil trade, showed exports rising to 131.0 from114.6 in January and imports rising to 142.2 from 136.5.    The value of British oil exports in February rose to 751mln stg from 723 mln in Jnauary while oil imports rose to 425mln from 352 mln.    The Department said the upward trend in non-oil exportvolume continues and the underlying level of non-oil importvolume seems to have stablised.    The Departnment said exports to the U.S. May be benefitingfrom fluctuations in the mark and yen exchange rates. REUTER
TRADE SURPLUS CUT WOULD BENEFIT JAPAN - SUMITA Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumitasaid it is in Japan's national interest to make greater effortsto reduce its trade surplus.    He told business executives the most important issues forthe world economy are the correction of international tradeimbalances and a solution to the world debt problem.    To this end, Japan and the U.S. Must make medium- andlong-term efforts to alter economic structures which haveexpanded the trade gap between the two nations. World economicgrowth and therefore an expansion of debtor countries' exportmarkets are needed to solve the debt issue, he added. REUTER
U.K. TRADE FIGURES BUOY HOPES OF INTEREST RATE CUT The release of U.K. February trade datashowing that the current account surplus was a provisional 376mln stg, up from a 73 mln surplus in January, has boosted hopesof an early cut in interest rates, analysts said.    Market forecasts had been for a worse outcome, withexpectations of a deficit in visible trade averaging about 750mln stg, against the official figure of 224 mln stg, sharplynarrower than January's 527 mln deficit.    "The figures are unreservedly good," Chase ManhattanSecurities economist Andrew Wroblewski said.    Sterling rebounded on the trade figures, reversing a weakermorning trend, to stand at 72.1 pct of its trade weighted indexagainst a basket of currencies at midday, unchanged fromyesterday's close but 0.3 points above the 1100 GMT level.    The market had feared that a deteriorating non-oil tradepattern would undermine international support for sterling,which has been the motor behind the recent fall in U.K.Interest rates. Money market sources said the market had begunto doubt that a widely expected drop in bank base lending ratesto 9.5 pct from the present 10.0 pct was really on the cards.    But sentiment now looks to have turned about again.    There now looks to be no danger that the Chancellor of theExchequer Nigel Lawson's forecast of a 1987 current accountdeficit of 2.5 billion stg will be exceeded, Wroblewski said.    Seasonally adjusted figures showed imports rose in Februaryto 7.16 billion stg from 6.73 billion in January.    Exports rose to a record 6.93 billion from 6.20 billion.    However, Chris Tinker, U.K. Analyst at brokers Phillips andDrew said the faster rise in exports than imports would provepartly aberrational in coming months. He forecast theChancellor's Budget tax cuts would increase consumerexpenditure on imported goods.    However, Warburg Securities economist Ian Harwood said hisfirm was sharply revising its 1987 current account deficitforecast in the light of the latest data, cutting one billionstg off the expected full year total to about 1.75 billion stg.    He said news of strong growth in exports of non-oil goodsconfirmed recent bullish surveys among members of theConfederation of British Industry.    The growth in imports appears to be flattening, even ifJanuary's bad weather had curbed consumer spending on overseasgoods and import-intensive stock building among manufacturers,Harwood said.    U.K. Government bonds, or gilts, surged by more than 1/2point on the better-than-expected news, as earlier worriesabout the figures evaporated.    Sterling peaked at a high of 1.6075 dlrs, before settlingto a steady 1.6050 about 1300 GMT, nearly a cent higher thanthe European low of 1.5960.    However, analysts noted that the turnabout in marketsentiment still looks highly vulnerable to political news.    Morning weakness in sterling and the gilt market waslargely attributed to a newspaper opinion poll showing that theConservative government's support was slipping.    LONDON, March 26 - The Bank of England said it provided 15mln stg in assistance to the money market this morning, buyingbank bills in band two at 9-13/16 pct.    Earlier the Bank revised its money market liquidityforecast from a flat position to a deficit of around 350 mlnstg. REUTER
U.S. TREASURY'S BAKER OPPOSES TAX INCREASE U.S. Treasury Secretary James Bakersaid that he opposes a Federal tax increase to help reduce thebudget deficit and favors spending cuts instead.    "I don't think it's (a tax increase) is a very good ideaand I'm quite confident that President Reagan doesn't thinkit's a very good idea," Baker said in an interview on CableNews Network's "Moneyline" television program.    He said U.S. taxpayers are taxed at a rate of 19 pct of GNPwhich is traditionally where it has been, but the FederalGovernment is spending at a rate of 24 pct of GNP. Baker saidspending cuts are clearly the best way to cut budget deficits.    Baker said he opposed a stock transactions tax proposed byHouse Speaker Jim Wright, D-Tex, or other special taxes.    "The stock transfer tax would be a particularly unfortunateapproach to take," the Treasury Secretary said. He said theUnited States has some of the most efficient capital markets inthe world and new taxes would impair efficiency.    On the international front, Baker said banks must do morelending to developing countries. He was questioned about thisafter the Standard and Poor's Corp downgrading today of thedebt of six major money center bank holding companies, largelybecause of their heavy developing nation loan exposure.    Baker said that developing countries must adopt free marketeconomic policies such as in the United States. He said capitalflows will be required to support the needed reforms in theeconomic systems of those countries.    The money must come either through equity or debt and Bakersaid that developing nations' "investment regimes do notsupport enough equity investment, so you've got to have somedebt there."    Commenting on the U.S. trade deficit, Baker said "I thinkyou're going to see a 15 to 20 billion dlr reduction thisyear." Reuter
U.K. VISIBLE TRADE DEFICIT NARROWS IN FEBRUARY Britain's visible trade deficit narrowedto a seasonally adjusted provisional 224 mln stg in Februaryfrom 527 mln in January, The Trade and Industry Departmentsaid.    The current account balance of payments in February showeda seasonally adjusted provisional surplus of 376 mln stgcompared with a surplus of 73 mln in January.    Invisibles in February were put provisionally at a 600 mlnsurplus, the same as in January.    Seasonally adjusted, imports rose in February to 7.16billion stg from 6.73 billion in January. Exports rose to arecord 6.93 billion last month from 6.20 billion in January.    Trade Department officials said the improvement inBritain's current account contrasted with most privateforecasts and they attributed much of the strength to importsrising less quickly in February than might otherwise have beenexpected.    The Department said exceptionally cold weather in Januaryreduced exports that month and that there had been an elementof catching up in the February figures.    The seasonally adjusted volume index, base 1980, a guide tounderlying non-oil trade, showed exports rising to 131.0 from114.6 in January and imports rising to 142.2 from 136.5.    The value of British oil exports in February rose to 751mln stg from 723 mln in Jnauary while oil imports rose to 425mln from 352 mln. Reuter
HONG KONG FEBRUARY TRADE SWINGS INTO DEFICIT Hong Kong recorded a 3.51 billionH.K. Dlr deficit in February after a 2.54 billion dlr surplusin January as imports climbed and exports slid, the Census andStatistics Department said.    The deficit compared with a deficit of 1.76 billion dlrs inFebruary 1986.    Imports rose to 24.12 billion dlrs, up 2.6 pct fromJanuary's 23.52 billion dlrs and 42 pct above the 16.98 billiondlrs recorded in February 1986.    Total exports for the month fell 20.9 pct to 20.61 billiondlrs from 26.06 billion in January.    February exports were still 35.4 pct above the 15.22billion dlrs recorded in the same month last year.    Re-exports, the territory's traditional entrepot trade,outpaced domestically produced exports for the first time sinceMarch 1985.    Re-exports fell 11.6 pct to 10.62 billion dlrs from 12.0billion dlrs in January but were 54 pct above February 1986's6.88 billion dlrs. Domestic exports slid 28.9 pct to 9.99billion dlrs from January's 14.05 billion dlrs but were up 19.7pct over the 8.35 billion dlrs recorded in February 1986. REUTER
BRITISH POLITICIANS URGE JAPAN TRADE SANCTIONS One hundred members of Britain's rulingConservative Party have signed a motion calling for tradesanctions against Japan to force Tokyo to open its domesticmarket to British goods.    The government announced last week that Japan had a 5.9billion dlr trade surplus with Britain in 1986.    The Department of Trade and Industry said the governmentwas drawing up contingency plans to force Japan into opening upits domestic markets but a spokesman said such moves were verymuch a last resort.    Ideas being considered included blocking Japanese companiesfrom trading in Britain and revoking licenses of Japaneseoperations in the London financial district. Reuter
U.K. TRADE FIGURES BUOY HOPES OF INTEREST RATE CUT The release of U.K. February trade datashowing that the current account surplus was a provisional 376mln stg, up from a 73 mln surplus in January, has boosted hopesof an early cut in interest rates, analysts said.    Market forecasts had been for a worse outcome, withexpectations of a deficit in visible trade averaging about 750mln stg, against the official figure of 224 mln stg, sharplynarrower than January's 527 mln deficit.    "The figures are unreservedly good," Chase ManhattanSecurities economist Andrew Wroblewski said.    Sterling rebounded on the trade figures, reversing a weakermorning trend, to stand at 72.1 pct of its trade weighted indexagainst a basket of currencies at midday, unchanged fromyesterday's close but 0.3 points above the 1100 GMT level.    The market had feared that a deteriorating non-oil tradepattern would undermine international support for sterling,which has been the motor behind the recent fall in U.K.Interest rates. Money market sources said the market had begunto doubt that a widely expected drop in bank base lending ratesto 9.5 pct from the present 10.0 pct was really on the cards.    But sentiment now looks to have turned about again.    There now looks to be no danger that the Chancellor of theExchequer Nigel Lawson's forecast of a 1987 current accountdeficit of 2.5 billion stg will be exceeded, said Wroblewski.    Seasonally adjusted figures showed that imports rose inFebruary to 7.16 billion stg from 6.73 billion in January.    Exports rose to a record 6.93 billion from 6.20 billion.    However, Chris Tinker, U.K. Analyst at brokers Phillips andDrew said that the faster rise in exports than imports wouldprove partly aberrational in coming months. He forecast theChancellor's Budget tax cuts would increase consumer expeditureon imported goods.    However, Ian Harwood, economist at Warburg Securities, saidhis firm was sharply revising its 1987 current account deficitforecast in the light of the latest data, cutting one billionstg off the expected full year total to about 1.75 billion stg.    He said news of strong growth in exports of non-oil goodsconfirmed recent bullish surveys among members of theConfederation of British Industry.    The growth in imports appears to be flattening, even ifJanuary's bad weather had curbed consumer spending on overseasgoods and import-intensive stock building among manufactureres,Harwood said.    U.K. Government bonds, or gilts, surged by more than 1/2point on the better-than-expected news, as earlier worriesabout the figures evaporated.    Sterling peaked at a high of 1.6075 dlrs, before settlingto a steady 1.6050 dlrs about 1300 GMT, nearly a cent higherthan the European low of 1.5960.    However, analysts noted that the turnabout in marketsentiment still looks highly vulnerable to political news.    Morning weakness in sterling and the gilt market waslargely attributed to a newspaper opinion poll showing that theConservative government's support was slipping.    The Marplan poll, published in "Today," showed Conservativesupport had fallen to 36 pct, from 38 pct last month, while theAlliance of Liberals and Social Democrats had rallied to 31pct, from 21 pct, to run neck and neck with the Labour Party,whose own support fell from 38 pct.    The poll was taken after the Budget, which was greetedenthusiastically by financial markets but seems to have leftthe voters indifferent, political observers said.    Another regular poll is due tomorrow, and eonomists warnthat today's improved sentiment could be dented if support forPrime Minister Margaret Thatcher slips again.    This upsetting of the markets' political perceptions, whichare all but discounting a Conservative victory in the upcominggeneral election, made them more sensitive to the trade data,Harwood said. "The news did come as a very, very substantialrelief," he said.    However, on the interest rate front, economists cautionthat Lawson might be wary of leaving sterling vulnerable byencouraging another base rate fall. They noted Lawson hadalready got an inflation-reducing cut in mortgage rates inresponse to lower base rates, so domestic political reasons forlower rates have been curtailed. REUTER
S. KOREA MAY BUY U.S. OIL TO AID TRADE BALANCE South Korea is studying a plan to buymore coal from the United States and to start importing Alaskancrude oil to help reduce its huge trade surplus with the UnitedStates, Energy Ministry officials said today.    They said the plan would dominate discussions at two-dayenergy talks between officials of the two countries inWashington from April 1.    Huh Sun-yong, who will attend the talks with three otherSeoul government officials, told Reuters that Seoul was"positively considering buying a certain amount of Alaskan oilbeginning this year as part of our government's overall plan toreduce a widening trade gap between the two countries."    Huh said however that South Korean refineries consideredthe Alaskan oil economically uncompetitive. Reuter
U.S TREASURY'S MULFORD REAFFIRMS G-6 AGREEMENT Treasury Assistant Secretary DavidMulford reaffirmed U.S. backing for the Paris Agreement amongsix industrial nations to cooperate closely to foster exchangerate stability around current levels.    In testimony prepared for delivery before a Senate bankingsubcommittee, Mulford said there was broad recognition in Paristhat "further substantial exchange rate shifts could damagegrowth and adjustment prospects."    But he also said while there are clear understandings amongthe countries regarding cooperation, "We have refrained fromestablishing a system of target zones or ranges."    Mulford also said the six nations have not spelled out theway in which they intend to deal with possible marketdevelopments.    He said governments must retain flexibility in dealing withexchange market pressures and efforts to establish rigidexchange rate objectives "or to specify too precisely the goalsof intervention" would hurt official attempts to react tomarket pressures, he said.    Accordingly, Mulford said setting specific currencyobjectives and intervention to achieve those objectives wouldbe counterproductive.    Commenting on the trade deficit, Mulford reiterated theTreasury position that the current account deficit will declinefrom 148 billion dlrs last year to around 130 billion dlrs thisyear, due to the exchange rate adjustments of the past 18months.    But he added trade imbalances would also be corrected bycommitments from West Germany and Japan to stimulate theireconomies and by U.S. efforts to cut the budget deficit andenhance U.S. competitiveness.    He also said some newly industrialized countries should lettheir currencies appreciate. Reuter
KEATING REVISES DOWN AUSTRALIAN GROWTH FORECAST Treasurer Paul Keating forecasteconomic growth at slightly under two pct in the financial yearending June this year, down from the 2.25 pct forecastcontained in the 1986/87 budget delivered last August.    Australia's terms of trade also fell, by 18 pct, over thepast two years, he told Parliament. Terms of trade are thedifference between import and export price indexes.    Despite the figures, the budget forecast of about 1.75 pctannual growth in employment would be met, Keating said.    Unemployment is currently at 8.2 pct of the workforce.    "This government is dragging Australia through a tradingholocaust the kind of which we have not seen since the SecondWorld War," Keating said.    "We are not pushing this place into a recession. We are notonly holding our gains on unemployment, we are bringingunemployment down," he said, adding that the government had helpthe country avoid recession. REUTER
MULFORD SAYS GERMANY, JAPAN SHOULD DO MORE Treasury Assistant Secretary DavidMulford said he did not believe that West Germany and Japanhave yet carried out their international responsibilities.    "I do not believe they have up to this time," Mulford tolda Senate banking subcommittee.    He said that for the U.S. trade deficit to continueimproving in the next two years, "We need more policy actions"across the entire front of U.S. trade relations, includingCanada and the newly-industrialized countries (NICS).    In particular, he said, efforts by South Korea and Taiwanto strengthen their currencies were still disappointing.    Mulford also said that OECD nations need to grow an averagethree pct to help resolve the international debt crisis.    He noted that Japanese and European imports from Latinnations were significantly smaller than imports into the U.S.    He stressed both Germany and Japan must continue to takeeconomic and structural measures to ensure stronger sustainedeconomic growth. Reuter
U.K. GROWING IMPATIENT WITH JAPAN - THATCHER Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher saidthe U.K. Was growing more impatient with Japanese tradebarriers and warned that it would soon have new powers againstcountries not offering reciprocal access to their markets.    She told Parliament that the bid by the U.K.'s Cable andWireless Plc <CAWL.L> to enter the Japanese telecommunicationsmarket was being regarded by her government as a test case.    "I wrote to the prime minister of Japan, Mr Nakasone, on thefourth of March to express our interest on the Cable andWireless bid. I have not yet had a reply. We see this as a teston how open the Japanese market really is," Thatcher said.    Thatcher told Parliament that "shortly ... We shall havemore powers than we have now, when, for example the powersunder the Financial Services Act and the Banking Act becomeavailable, then we shall be able to take action in cases whereother countries do not offer the same full access to financialservices as we do."    Cable and Wireless is seeking a stake in the proposedJapanese telecommunications rival to Kokusai Denshin Denwa.    But the Japanese minister for post and telecommunicationswas reported as saying that he opposed Cable and Wirelesshaving a managerial role in the new company. REUTER
WHITE HOUSE UNIT DECIDES ON SEMICONDUCTORS The White House Economic PolicyCouncil made a recommendation to President Reagan whether toretaliate against Japan for alleged unfair practices insemiconductor trade, U.S. officials said.    They would not disclose the council's recommendation, butthe officials said earlier it was likely the council would callfor retaliation and urge that curbs be imposed on Japaneseexports to the United States.    The officials said it might be several days before Reaganwould act and his moves made public.    The Senate last week unanimously called on Reagan to imposepenalities on Japanese exports. Retaliation was also called forby the semiconductor industry and its chief trade union, bothhard hit by Japanese semiconductor trade.    In a pact last summer, Japan summer agreed to stop dumpingits semiconductors at less than cost in the United States andother nations and to open its own market to the U.S. products.    In return, the United States agreed to hold up imposinganti-dumping duties on Japanese semiconductor shipments.    U.S. officials say that while Japan has stopped dumpingsemiconductors on the American market, they have continued todump them in third countries and that the Japanese market hasremained all but closed to the U.S. semiconductors.semiconductors on the American market, they have continued todump them in third countries and that the Japanese market hasremained all but closed to the U.S. semiconductors. reuter
GATT WARNS U.S. ON FEDERAL BUDGET, PROTECTIONISM The United States' emphasis on itsforeign trade deficit is misplaced and the country's realproblem lies in its large federal budget deficit, the GeneralAgreeement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) said.     By stressing its record trade deficit of 169.8 billiondlrs last year, the U.S. Was fuelling protectionist pressurewhich threatens the world trading system, it said in an annualreport.    The fundamental problem, the size of the U.S. Federalbudget deficit, could be remedied only by cutting governmentspending or encouraging personal savings to finance the debt,it said.    GATT also predicted world trade would grow by only 2.5 pctin 1987 -- a full percentage point lower than in each of theprevious two years.    GATT experts urged Washington to resist protectionism andinstead seek macroeconomic changes to reduce the currentaccount payments deficit -- higher private savings, lowerinvestment and a smaller federal budget deficit.    Raising U.S. Trade barriers "would result in little or noreduction in the current account deficit. It would, however,increase inflation and reduce world trade," it said.    "The basic cause -- some combination of insufficientdomestic savings and an excessive budget deficit -- wouldremain," the report said.    GATT economists said trade expansion would slow this yearbecause of slower growth forecasts in Japan and some WestEuropean nations as they adjust production and workforces to alow dollar, risk of higher U.S. Inflation, concerns over ThirdWorld debt management and looming protectionism.    The report also said imbalances in the current accounts ofJapan, West Germany and the U.S. Had increased in 1986.    The most likely explanation was that exchange rate changeswere not backed by changes in macroeconomic policies, it added.    "Thus the prediction that these imbalances would be reducedas a result of the major realignment of exchange rates was notborne out last year," the report said.    GATT warned there was a risk of a sizeable increase in theU.S. Inflation rate under the combined impact of a rapidlyexpanding money supply and low dollar.    "Such a development could worsen the business climate byincreasing uncertainty and pushing up interest rates, which, inturn, would adversely affect world trade."    But the report noted a surprising rise in imports to theUnited States, despite the dollar's depreciation which makesforeign products more expensive.    It suggested that resources idle in the U.S., Both humanand in underutilised factories, were not geared to produce thegoods and services sought from abroad.    World trade in manufactures grew by only three pct in 1986,about half of the rate of the previous year.    Trade in agricultural goods expanded by just one pct,continuing a stagnant pattern in that sector this decade, GATTsaid.    Developing countries' exports declined significantly, whiletheir imports increased moderately, although full statisticsare not available yet, GATT said.    The combined export earnings of 16 major indebted nationswere sharply lower, and only five of them (Chile, Colombia,Philippines, South Korea, and Thailand) had higher exports. REUTER
NAKASONE TO VISIT WASHINGTON IN LATE APRIL Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone willmake an official week-long visit to the United States fromApril 29 and hold talks in Washington with President Reagan,Chief Cabinet Secretary Masaharu Gotoda told reporters.    Government sources said Nakasone would try to resolvegrowing bilateral trade friction and discuss the June Venicesummit of Western industrial democracies.    Foreign Minister Tadashi Kuranari will accompany Nakasone,ministry officials said.    U.S. Industry sources in Washington said the White HouseEconomic Policy Council was recommending trade sanctionsagainst Japan for violating the two countries' agreement onsemiconductor trade.    Under the pact, Japan pledged to stop dumping microchips inthe U.S. And Asia and open its domestic market to U.S.Semiconductors. REUTER
INDIA STEPS UP COUNTERTRADE DEALS TO CUT TRADE GAP India is searching for non-communistcountertrade partners to help it cut its trade deficit andconserve foreign exchange.    Wheat, tobacco, tea, coffee, jute, engineering andelectronic goods, as well as minerals including iron ore, areall on offer in return for crude oil, petroleum products,chemicals, steel and machinery, trade sources told Reuters.    Most of the impetus behind countertrade, which began in1984, comes from two state trading firms -- the State TradingCorp (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corp (MMTC).    "The two state trading corporations are free to use theirbuying power in respect to bulk commodities to promote Indianexports," a commerce ministry spokeswoman said, adding thatprivate firms are excluded from countertrading.    One trade source said India has targetted countries thatdepend on an Indian domestic market recently opened to foreignimports.    However, countertrade deals still make up only a small partof India's total trading and are likely to account for lessthan eight pct of the estimated 18.53 billion dlrs in tradeduring the nine months ended December, the sources said.    Countertrade accounted for just five pct of India's 25.65billion dlrs in trade during fiscal 1985/86 ended March,against almost nothing in 1984/85, official figures show.    However, the figures exclude exchanges with the EasternBloc paid in non-convertible Indian rupees, the sources said.    Total trade with the Soviet Union, involving swaps ofagricultural produce and textiles for Soviet arms and crudeoil, is estimated at 3.04 billion dlrs in fiscal 1986/87,against three billion in 1985/86.    Indian countertrade, which is being promoted mainly to helpnarrow the country's large trade deficit, is stillinsignificant compared with agreements reached by Indonesia,Venezuela and Brazil, the trade sources said.    The trade deficit, which hit an estimated record 6.96billion dlrs in 1985/86, is expected to decline to 5.6 billionin the current fiscal year.    But the push to include non-communist countries incountertrade is also due to other factors, including the slowgrowth of foreign reserves, a tight debt repayment schedule,shrinking aid and trade protectionism, businessmen said.    One source said India is showing more dynamism in promotingcountertrade deals than in the past, when the deals were madediscreetly because they break GATT rules. As a member of theGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), India cannotofficially support bartering.    The MMTC's recent countertrade deals include iron oreexports to Yugoslavia for steel structures and rails.    "MMTC's recent global tenders now include a clause thatpreference will be given to parties who accept payment in kindfor goods and services sold to India," a trade official said,adding that the policy remains flexible.    "We also take into account other factors such as prices atwhich the goods and services are offered to India," the tradeofficial said.    Early this year the commerce ministry quietly told foreigncompanies interested in selling aircraft, ships, drilling rigsand railway equipment to India that they stood a better chanceif they bought Indian goods or services in return, the tradesources said.    Illustrating the point, the official said a South Koreanfirm recently agreed to sell a drilling platform worth 40 mlndlrs to the state-run Oil and Natural Gas Commission.    In return, the South Koreans gave a verbal assurance to buyIndian goods worth 10 pct of the contract, against the 25 pctsought by New Delhi, the trade official said.    "We selected the Korean firm because its bid was the lowest,"he added.    Countertrade is helping African countries short of foreigncurrency to import goods. India has signed a trade protocol tobuy up to 15,000 tonnes of asbestos fibre from Zimbabwe inexchange for Indian goods, including jute bags and cars.    But despite India's new drive, countertrade has someinherent problems, they added.    "It is not always easy to meet the basic requirement thatthe trade should always be balanced," one trade source said. "Theother problem is it is often difficult to supply or buycommodities which the other party wants."    Another added, "Barter is also restrictive. We look upon itas a temporary measure to get over the current balance ofpayments difficulty.    "This is why countertrade has not been made a law in India.It does not even figure in the country's foreign trade policy." REUTER
JAPAN SEAMLESS PIPE MAKERS TO FORM EXPORT CARTEL Four major Japanese steelmakers plan toform a seamless pipe export cartel for markets other than theU.S. And the European Community for a year from April to keepprices above output costs, company officials involved said.    The companies are Nippon steel Corp <NSTC.T>, SumitomoMetal Industries Ltd <SMIT.T>, Nippon Kokan KK <NKKT.T> andKawasaki Steel Corp <KAWS.T>, which together account for some95 pct of Japan's total seamless pipe exports.    The firms will apply to form the cartel to the Ministry ofInternational Trade and Industry today and approval is expectedlater this month, the officials said.    Under the plan, the four companies will set floor pricesfor exports as prices have fallen sharply due to the yen'sappreciation against the dollar, reduced world demand caused bylower oil prices and excess domestic capacity which resulted inprice-cutting competition, the officials said.    In calendar 1986, seamless pipe exports fell to 2.34 mlntonnes from 2.99 mln in 1985 and 3.12 mln in 1981.    The officials declined to give any idea of floor prices,saying it depends partly on volume, but industry sourcesestimate average export prices would rise by around 20 pct tosome 800 dlrs a tonne. REUTER
JAPAN FEBRUARY CURRENT ACCOUNT, TRADE SURPLUS JUMP Japan's current account surplus rose to7.38 billion dlrs in February from 3.89 billion a year ago andfrom 4.95 billion in January, the Finance Ministry said.    The trade surplus rose to 8.14 billion dlrs in Februaryfrom 4.77 billion a year earlier and 5.70 billion in January.    The long-term capital account deficit widened to 11.40billion dlrs from 8.06 billion a year ago, but it narrowed from12.32 billion in January, the Ministry said.    Japan's February exports rose to 16.74 billion dlrs from14.89 billion in February 1986 and from 14.65 billion inJanuary, the Ministry said. Imports fell to 8.61 billion from10.12 billion a year earlier and 8.94 billion in January.    The invisible trade deficit fell to 617 mln dlrs inFebruary from 693 mln a year earlier, but was up from a 527 mlndeficit in January.    Figures do not tally exactly because of rounding.    Transfer payments narrowed to a 140 mln dlr deficit lastmonth from a 185 mln deficit a year earlier and a 225 mlndeficit in January.    The basic balance of payments deficit in February fell to4.02 billion dlrs from 4.17 billion in February 1986 and 7.37billion in January. Short-term capital account payments swungto a 1.28 billion dlr deficit in February from a 1.60 billionsurplus a year earlier and a 1.44 billion dlr surplus inJanuary.    Errors and omissions were 2.65 billion dlrs in surplus,compared with a 1.27 billion surplus a year earlier and a 1.10billion deficit in January. The overall balance of paymentsdeficit rose to 2.65 billion dlrs from 1.30 billion a yearearlier but was down from 7.04 billion in January.    The seasonally adjusted trade surplus fell to 9.16 billiondlrs in February from the record 9.58 billion in January, theMinistry said.    The seasonally adjusted current account surplus alsodropped to 8.4 billion dlrs in February from the record 8.83billion set in January. REUTER
TRADE SURPLUS WILL POSE ADDED PRESSURES FOR JAPAN Japan today announced another mammothmonthly trade surplus that economists said would be sure tointensify already mounting pressure on the country for action.    "The world has every reason to be furious with Japan for notmoving more quickly," Jardine Fleming (Securities) Ltd economistEric Rasmussen said.    The Finance Ministry said today that the trade surplussoared to 8.14 billion dlrs in February from 5.7 billion inJanuary and 4.77 billion a year ago.    The current account surplus, which includes trade inservices as well as goods, climbed to 7.38 billion dlrs lastmonth from 4.95 billion in January and 3.89 billion a year ago.    After being adjusted for seasonal fluctuations, the figureslook a bit better, but not much. On that basis, the tradesurplus declined slightly in February to 9.16 billion dlrs froma record 9.58 billion in January.    "In the medium term we expect this modest improvement tocontinue but the pace of progress may be too slow to ward offfurther protectionism or further yen strength," said WilliamStirling, economist at Merrill Lynch Japan Inc.    A strong yen would make Japanese goods more expensive onworld markets while making imports into the country cheaper.    "On a seasonally adjusted basis, we appear to be making someprogress on getting exports down," Jardine's Rasmussen said.    But imports do not seem to be picking up much because theJapanese economy remains sluggish, he said.    Finance Ministry officials blamed last month's slowerimport growth on a decline in oil imports as refiners workedoff stocks they had built up in January.    The officials took comfort from a decline in the volume ofexports last month, after an unexpected year-on-year increasein January.    This means the effects of the two-year rise of the yenagainst the U.S. Dollar are finally beginning to have an impacton exports, they said.    But economists warned that may not be soon enough forJapan's trading partners. REUTER
WORLD BANK CHIEF URGES MORE JAPANESE INVESTMENT World Bank President Barber Conablecalled on Japan to boost investment in developing nations, forits own sake as well as that of the world economy.    "Japan has the means to make a major contribution todevelopment in the Third World," he told about 500 Japanesebusinessmen and academics. "I would be pleased with additionalsupport."    With 25 pct of the world's total banking assets, Japancould do more to help assist indebted Third World countriesdevelop roads, bridges and other infrastructure, he said.    Conable said additional commercial bank investment wouldalso be to Japan's advantage.    It would profit from rechannelling its huge trade surplusinto Third World economies -- notably those in South America,China and India -- that are likely to expand faster than thosein the developed world, he said.    Japan is now the second largest shareholder in the Bank'sconcessionary lending affiliate, the International DevelopmentAssociation (IDA). It has also agreed recently to expand itscontribution to another affiliate, the International Bank forReconstruction and Development (IBRD), Conable noted.    Conable said the World Bank was expanding its structuraladjustment loans, designed to encourage developing countries toopen their economies more to free competition and trade.    "Adjustment loans could rise to 30 pct (of total World Bankloans) in the near future, though maybe not this year," Conabletold Reuters after his speech.    Such loans currently account for slightly over 20 pct. REUTER
NAKASONE TO VISIT WASHINGTON IN LATE APRIL Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone willmake an official week-long visit to the United States fromApril 29 and hold talks in Washington with President Reagan,Chief Cabinet Secretary Masaharu Gotoda told reporters.    Government sources said Nakasone would try to resolvegrowing bilateral trade friction and discuss the June Venicesummit of Western industrial democracies.    Foreign Minister Tadashi Kuranari will accompany Nakasone,ministry officials said.    U.S. Industry sources in Washington said the White HouseEconomic Policy Council was recommending trade sanctionsagainst Japan for violating the two countries' agreement onsemiconductor trade.    Under the pact, Japan pledged to stop dumping microchips inthe U.S. And Asia and open its domestic market to U.S.Semiconductors. REUTER
NAKASONE HARD-PRESSED TO SOOTHE U.S ANGER ON TRADE Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone willvisit Washington next month in a bid to defuse mounting U.S.Anger over Japanese trade policies, but Western diplomats saidthey believed his chances of success were slim.    Boxed in by powerful political pressure groups andwidespread opposition to his tax reform plans, Nakasone will behard-pressed to come up with anything new to tell U.S.President Ronald Reagan and key U.S. Congressmen, they said.    News of the week-long visit starting April 29 coincidedwith news that Japan recorded a 8.14 billion dlr trade surpluslast month, more than 70 pct higher than a year earlier.    It also came one day after the Reagan Administration'sEconomic Policy Council decided to take retaliatory actionagainst Japan for its alleged failure to live up to a jointtrade agreement on computer microchips.    Nakasone wants to go armed with two separate packages - onedesigned to pep up Japan's sagging economy and imports in theshort-term, the other to redirect the country in the mediumterm away from its over-dependence on exports for growth.    But government officials said political infighting couldrob both packages of much of their punch and might even preventone from seeing the light of day.    Nakasone has insisted that the government would not draw upa package of short-term economic measures until after its1987/88 budget passed parliament because he feared that wouldamount to a tacit admission that the budget was inadequate.    But his hopes for quick passage of the budget in time forhis trip have been shattered by a parliamentary boycott byopposition parties protesting over the sales tax plan.    Faced with the possibility that he might have to go to theU.S. Virtually empty-handed, Nakasone today ordered his rulingLiberal Democratic Party (LDP) to come up with its ownmeasures.    He can then tell Reagan the LDP package will form the basisof the government's plans, without losing face in parliamentover the budget, political analysts said.    Officials working on the government's short-term economicpackage said it would probably include interest rate cuts onloans by government corporations, deregulation, measures topass on some of the benefits of the strong yen to consumers inthe form of lower prices, and accelerated public investment.    They said a record portion of state investment planned forthe entire 1987/88 fiscal year will take place in the firsthalf, probably over 80 pct.    Diplomats said that was unlikely to be enough to satisfyReagan, who is under pressure from the Democrat-controlled U.S.Congress to take greater action to cut the huge American tradedeficit.    To complement the short-term measures, Nakasone is alsolikely to present Reagan with details of Japan's longer-termeconomic plans.    A high-ranking advisory body headed by former Bank of Japangovernor Haruo Maekawa is expected to come up with a finalreport outlining concrete steps to redirect the economy daysbefore Nakasone is scheduled to leave for Washington.    Its recommendations are designed as a follow-up toMaekawa's report last year on economic restructuring and arelikely to cover such potentially politically explosive areas asagricultural reform and land policy, officials said.    While wanting to make the report as explicit and detailedas possible, they said the political realities might force themto water down some of the committee's recommendations.    A subcommittee is considering what the Japanese economymight look like in the medium to longer term after it undergoesmassive restructuring, officials said. The subcommitteeprojects that the current account surplus will fall to lessthan two pct of Japan's total output, or gross nationalproduct, around 1993 or 1995. Last year the surplus, whichmeasures trade in goods and services, amounted to over four pctof gnp.    The subcommittee also projects annual economic growth forJapan of nearly four pct over that period and a very gradualappreciation of the yen, to about 130 to the dollar by around1993, from 150 now. REUTER
 S. African Feb trade surplus 1.62 billion rand vs Jan surplus 906.2 mln -  <Helikopter Service A/S>, Norway'sbiggest helicopter operator, will assemble 18 Bell 412 SPhelicopters for Norwegian Defence under license from <BellHelicopters Textron> of the U.S., The company said.    The 18 medium-range helicopters, worth 540 mln crowns, willbe assembled at the company's facilities at Sola airport inStavanger. Helikopter Service technical director Trygve Eidemsaid the 25-mln crown assembly contract will help the companydiversify its operations. Helikopter Service's main income isfrom chartered flights between Norway's North Sea oil fieldsand mainland heliports. REUTER
S. AFRICAN TRADE SURPLUS RISES SHARPLY IN FEBRUARY South Africa's trade surplus roseto 1.62 billion rand in February after falling to 906.2 mln inJanuary, Customs and Excise figures show.    This compares with a year earlier surplus of 958.9 mlnrand.    Exports rose slightly to 3.36 billion rand in February from3.31 billion in January but imports fell to 1.74 billion from2.41 billion.    This brought total exports for the first two months of 1987to 6.67 billion rand and imports to 4.15 billion for a totalsurplus of 2.52 billion rand against 1.71 billion a yearearlier. REUTER
INDIA STEPS UP COUNTERTRADE DEALS TO CUT TRADE GAP India is searching for non-communistcountertrade partners to help it cut its trade deficit andconserve foreign exchange.    Wheat, tobacco, tea, coffee, jute, engineering andelectronic goods, as well as minerals including iron ore, areall on offer in return for crude oil, petroleum products,chemicals, steel and machinery, trade sources told Reuters.    Most of the impetus behind countertrade, which began in1984, comes from two state trading firms -- the State TradingCorp (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corp (MMTC).    "The two state trading corporations are free to use theirbuying power in respect to bulk commodities to promote Indianexports," a commerce ministry spokeswoman said, adding thatprivate firms are excluded from countertrading.    One trade source said India has targetted countries thatdepend on an Indian domestic market recently opened to foreignimports.    However, countertrade deals still make up only a small partof India's total trading and are likely to account for lessthan eight pct of the estimated 18.53 billion dlrs in tradeduring the nine months ended December, the sources said.    Countertrade accounted for just five pct of India's 25.65billion dlrs in trade during fiscal 1985/86 ended March,against almost nothing in 1984/85, official figures show.    However, the figures exclude exchanges with the EasternBloc paid in non-convertible Indian rupees, the sources said.    Total trade with the Soviet Union, involving swaps ofagricultural produce and textiles for Soviet arms and crudeoil, is estimated at 3.04 billion dlrs in fiscal 1986/87,against three billion in 1985/86.    Indian countertrade, which is being promoted mainly to helpnarrow the country's large trade deficit, is stillinsignificant compared with agreements reached by Indonesia,Venezuela and Brazil, the trade sources said.    The trade deficit, which hit an estimated record 6.96billion dlrs in 1985/86, is expected to decline to 5.6 billionin the current fiscal year.    But the push to include non-communist countries incountertrade is also due to other factors, including the slowgrowth of foreign reserves, a tight debt repayment schedule,shrinking aid and trade protectionism, businessmen said.    One source said India is showing more dynamism in promotingcountertrade deals than in the past, when the deals were madediscreetly because they break GATT rules. As a member of theGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), India cannotofficially support bartering.    The MMTC's recent countertrade deals include iron oreexports to Yugoslavia for steel structures and rails.    "MMTC's recent global tenders now include a clause thatpreference will be given to parties who accept payment in kindfor goods and services sold to India," a trade official said,adding that the policy remains flexible.    "We also take into account other factors such as prices atwhich the goods and services are offered to India," the tradeofficial said.    Early this year the commerce ministry quietly told foreigncompanies interested in selling aircraft, ships, drilling rigsand railway equipment to India that they stood a better chanceif they bought Indian goods or services in return, the tradesources said.    Illustrating the point, the official said a South Koreanfirm recently agreed to sell a drilling platform worth 40 mlndlrs to the state-run Oil and Natural Gas Commission. Reuter
JAPAN FEBRUARY CURRENT ACCOUNT, TRADE SURPLUS JUMP Japan's current account surplus rose to7.38 billion dlrs in February from 3.89 billion a year ago andfrom 4.95 billion in January, the Finance Ministry said.    The trade surplus rose to 8.14 billion dlrs in Februaryfrom 4.77 billion a year earlier and 5.70 billion in January.    The long-term capital account deficit widened to 11.40billion dlrs from 8.06 billion a year ago, but it narrowed from12.32 billion in January, the Ministry said.    Japan's February exports rose to 16.74 billion dlrs from14.89 billion in February 1986 and from 14.65 billion inJanuary, the Ministry said. Imports fell to 8.61 billion from10.12 billion a year earlier and 8.94 billion in January.    The invisible trade deficit fell to 617 mln dlrs inFebruary from 693 mln a year earlier, but was up from a 527 mlndeficit in January.    Figures do not tally exactly because of rounding.    Transfer payments narrowed to a 140 mln dlr deficit lastmonth from a 185 mln deficit a year earlier and a 225 mlndeficit in January.    The basic balance of payments deficit in February fell to4.02 billion dlrs from 4.17 billion in February 1986 and 7.37billion in January. Short-term capital account payments swungto a 1.28 billion dlr deficit in February from a 1.60 billionsurplus a year earlier and a 1.44 billion dlr surplus inJanuary.    Errors and omissions were 2.65 billion dlrs in surplus,compared with a 1.27 billion surplus a year earlier and a 1.10billion deficit in January. The overall balance of paymentsdeficit rose to 2.65 billion dlrs from 1.30 billion a yearearlier but was down from 7.04 billion in January. REUTER
INDIA STEPS UP COUNTERTRADE DEALS India is searching for non-communistcountertrade partners to help it cut its trade deficit andconserve foreign exchange.    Wheat, tobacco, tea, coffee, jute, engineering andelectronic goods, as well as minerals including iron ore, areall on offer in return for crude oil, petroleum products,chemicals, steel and machinery, trade sources told Reuters.    Most of the impetus behind countertrade, which began in1984, comes from two state trading firms -- the State TradingCorp (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corp (MMTC).    "The two state trading corporations are free to use theirbuying power in respect to bulk commodities to promote Indianexports," a commerce ministry spokeswoman said, adding thatprivate firms are excluded from countertrading.    One trade source said India has targetted countries thatdepend on an Indian domestic market recently opened to foreignimports. But countertrade deals still make up only a small partof India's total trading and are likely to account for lessthan eight pct of the estimated 18.53 billion dlrs in tradeduring the nine months ended December, the sources said.    Countertrade accounted for just five pct of India's 25.65billion dlrs in trade during fiscal 1985/86 ended March,against almost nothing in 1984/85, official figures show.    However, the figures exclude exchanges with the EasternBloc paid in non-convertible Indian rupees, the sources said.    Total trade with the Soviet Union, involving swaps ofagricultural produce and textiles for Soviet arms and crudeoil, is estimated at 3.04 billion dlrs in fiscal 1986/87. Reuter
HUNGARIAN ECONOMY CONTINUES UNFAVOURABLE TREND Hungary's economy and hard currencytrade have failed so far this year to reverse a two-yearunfavourable trend, the official Hungarian news agency MTIsaid.    Industrial production in January and February was only 1.3pct up on the same 1986 period, MTI said, while hard currencyexports fell six pct as imports rose 10 pct.    Hungary's hard currency trade fell into a deficit of 539.4mln dlrs last year from a surplus of 295.3 mln in 1985 and 1.2billion in 1984.    MTI quoted a government spokesman saying last December'swage freeze decree would expire on April 1 as envisaged.    Gross domestic product grew a sluggish one pct in 1986after stagnating in 1985 and growing 2.6 pct in 1984. REUTER
REAGAN READY TO IMPOSE TRADE CURBS AGAINST JAPAN President Reagan was ready to imposeretaliatory trade action against Japan for breaking itssemiconductor agreement with the United States, White Houseofficials said.    There was no immediate indication when Reagan might act onthe recommendations of his Economic Policy Council to curbJapanese exports to the United States, but officials said themove could come today or early next week.    Trade sources said the actions being weighed by Reaganinclude tariffs on a wide variety of Japanese exports which usesemiconductors.    The sources said the tariffs could be slapped on personalcomputers, television receivers and laser-printers, with theaim of penalizing Japan's major electronic firms, including NECCorp, Hitachi Ltd, Toshiba Corp and Fujitsu Ltd.    They said Reaan could also delay invoking sanctions for aweek or two, giving Japan a final opportunity to end thedumping practice, but added that negotiators had already heldextensive talks with the Japanese to no avail. Reuter
JAPAN'S CHIP MAKERS ANGERED BY U.S. SANCTION PLANS Japanese computer chip makers reactedangrily to news the United States plans to take retaliatoryaction against them for allegedly failing to live up to anagreement on trade in computer microchips.    Electronic Industries Association of Japan (EIAJ) ChairmanShoichi Saba stated: "EIAJ believes that it is premature andeven irrational to attempt an assessment of the impact of theagreement and our efforts to comply with it only six monthsafter concluding the agreement."    "We urge U.S. Governmental authorities to reconsider thedecision made, to evaluate fairly the results of Japaneseefforts in implementing the objectives of the agreement, and toresist emotional biases," he said.    Yesterday, Washington announced plans to slap as much as300 mln dlrs in tariffs on Japanese imports in retaliation forwhat is sees as Japan's failure to comply with the terms of thepact.    The agreement, struck late last year after months of heatednegotiations, called on Japan to stop selling cut-price chipson world markets and to buy more American-made semiconductors.    To salvage the pact, Tokyo has instructed its chip makersto slash production and has helped establish a multi-lateralorganisation designed to promote chip imports.    Saba said that Japanese chip companies have pledged threemln dlrs over the next five years to the new organisation andexpressed regret that no American company has seen fit to join.    "This suggests that American semiconductor manufacturers maynot be really interested in participating in the Japanesemarket," he said. REUTER
NAKASONE SOUNDS CONCILIATORY NOTE IN CHIP DISPUTE Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone soundeda conciliatory note in Japan's increasingly bitter row with theUnited States over trade in computer microchips.    "Japan wants to resolve the issue through consultations byexplaining its stance thoroughly and correcting the points thatneed to be corrected," he was quoted by Kyodo News Service assaying.    While expressing regret over America's decision to imposetariffs on imports of Japanese electrical goods, Nakasone saidTokyo was willing to send a high-level official to Washingtonto help settle the dispute.    Government officials said Japan would make a formal requestnext week for emergency talks and that the two sides wouldprobably meet the week after, just days before the April 17deadline set by Washington for the tariffs to take effect.    Tokyo is expected to propose a joint U.S./Japaninvestigation of American claims that Japanese companies aredumping cut-price chips in Asian markets.    Yesterday, Washington announced plans to put as much as 300mln dlrs in tariffs on imports of certain Japanese electronicgoods in retaliation for what it sees as Tokyo's failure tolive up to their bilateral chip pact.    That agreement, hammered out late last year after months ofheated negotiations, called on Japan to stop selling cut-pricechips in world markets and to buy more American-made chips.    Nakasone's comments seemed distinctly more conciliatorythan those of his Trade and Industry Minister, Hajime Tamura,who earlier today said Japan was ready to take "appropriatemeasures" if Washington went ahead with the sanctions.    Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI)officials later sought to downplay the significance of Tamura'sremark and said that his main message was that the two sidesneed to talk urgently about the issue.    But they admitted that Japan was considering taking theUnited States to GATT, the Geneva-based internationalorganization which polices world trade, if Washington imposedthe tariffs.    Any Japanese action would probably be taken under Article23 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), theysaid. If that article were invoked, GATT would set up a panelto consider the legality of the U.S. Action.    But officials here said they hope that can be avoided. "Itmay be wishful thinking but there is a possibility the UnitedStates may lift its decision at an early date," Tamura said.    In announcing the U.S. Sanctions yesterday, PresidentRonald Reagan said he was prepared to lift them once he hadevidence that Japan was no longer dumping chips in worldmarkets and had opened up its own market to imports.    Japanese government officials said they are confident theycan make the pact work.    They said that the export of cut-price Japanese chipsthrough unregulated distributors has all but dried up afterMITI instructed domestic makers to cut output.    While acknowledging that it is harder to increase Japaneseimports of American chips, MITI officials said that theministry is doing all it can to ensure that happens.    The Ministry recently called on Japan's major chip users,some of whom are also leading producers, to step up theirpurchases of foreign semiconductors.    A spokesman for one of the companies, Toshiba Corp <TSBA.T>said his firm would do just that and could announce its plansin the next week or so. He expects other Japanese companies todo likewise. REUTER
ISLAMIC BANKS ESTABLISH 50 MLN DLR TRADE PORTFOLIO The Islamic Development Bank (IDB) and20 Islamic Banks signed an agreement to establish a 50 mln dlrtrade portfolio to finance trade among Islamic countries, IDBsources said.    They said IDB's share in the portfolio, which will onlyfinance exports and imports of the private sector, was limitedto up to 25 mln dlrs.    The sources said shares in the porfolio could be traded orredeemed by the IDB, adding that this was a major step inestablishing an Islamic financial market. REUTER
TOKYO BIDS TO STOP CHIP ROW TURNING INTO TRADE WAR Japan is seeking to prevent its computerchips dispute with the U.S. From erupting into a full-scaletrade war, government officials said.    "We hope that the dispute on this specific issue won't havean adverse effect on our overall relationship with the UnitedStates," a Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI)official said.     On Friday, Washington announced plans for as much as 300mln dlrs in tariffs on Japanese electronic goods for Tokyo'salleged failure to live up to a bilateral computer chip pact.    That agreement, reached last year after heatednegotiations, called on Japan to stop selling cut-price chipsin world markets and to buy more American-made semiconductors.    Foreign Ministry officials immediately tried to isolate thefall-out from the dispute by seeking to separate it from PrimeMinister Yasuhiro Nakasone's planned trip to Washington at theend of April.    While Japan has already done about all it can to make surethe chip pact is working, the government is studying measuresit can take in other fields to defuse American anger and ensurethe trip's success, they said.    "The perception of Japan in the (U.S.) Congress is very bad,"one official told Reuters. "We would very much like to dosomething to respond to that."    In an apparent effort to prevent the chip dispute fromspreading to other areas, MITI officials sought to depict theU.S. Action as a severe warning to Japanese semiconductormakers, not to the government.    Faced with a belligerent domestic chip industry and anangry American Congress, the Japanese government has beenforced to walk an increasingly fine line in the semiconductordispute, trade analysts said.    They said that it was an open secret that Japan's largestchip maker, NEC Corp, was not happy with what it viewed as thedraconian measures MITI was taking to implement the pact,included enforced production cuts.    The angry response of Japanese chip makers yesterday to theannouncement of the U.S. Tariffs highlighted the difficultiesthe government faces in taking further action.    "Japanese semiconductor manufacturers have complied with theU.S./Japan agreement," said Shoichi Saba, Chairman of theElectronic Industries Association of Japan.    He accused the U.S. Of being "irrational." He said the U.S.Action had made the bilateral chip pact "meaningless."    Saba's comments contrasted with those of Prime MinisterYasuhiro Nakasone, who said Tokyo wanted to solve the disputethrough consultations.    Japan is expected to send a high-level official toWashington early next month to try to convince the U.S. Not togo ahead with the tariffs on April 17.    Trade analysts say Tokyo is likely to outline industryplans to step up purchases of U.S. Chips and to propose a jointinvestigation into Washington's allegations of chip dumping. REUTER
U.S. SEES MORE HARMONY IN TALKS WITH FRANCE The U.S. Expects more harmonioustalks than usual during French Prime Minister Jacques Chirac'sfirst official visit this week as frequently rancorous disputesbetween the two countries begin to fade.    "The Libyan bombing is a thing of the past, the trade wardidn't happen and we have reached reasonably good cooperationon terrorism," one U.S. Official told Reuters.    "It looks like a reasonably harmonious visit in prospect,more harmonious than usual."    Since taking office a year ago, Chirac has been obliged todeal with a series of potentially serious disputes with theUnited States.    During the U.S. Bombing of alleged terrorist targets inLibya last April, France refused to allow British-based U.S.Planes to overfly its territory, forcing them to take acircuitous route. That angered Washington.    The U.S. Officials, who asked not to be identified, said ayear ago Washington felt the French were not taking strongenough action against terrorism. "Now they are. We're pleasedand they are pleased that we are pleased," one said.    More recently, a dispute over U.S. Access to the grainmarkets of Spain and Portugal after they joined the EuropeanCommunity  threatened to become a trade war.    In retaliation for what Washington saw as deliberateCommunity moves to exclude U.S. Grain, the United States waspoised to impose swingeing tariffs on European Community foodimports and a major trade war was averted at the last minute.    Last week, the forces of President Hissene Habre of Chad,supported, trained and armed by Paris and Washington, scored amajor success by pushing Libyan troops out of their last basesin northern Chad.    A French official added: "There is also a common interest ingetting Japan to cut its trade surplus with the rest of theworld by opening up its markets."    Although relations have improved markedly between the twocountries, many irritants remain. At the top of the list is theCommunity's common agricultural policy (CAP).    To Washington, as one official put it, "CAP is the root ofall evil" in international food trade because it subsidisesfarmers and sells vast amounts of excess produce at below worldprices, thereby eating into U.S. Markets. REUTER
BALDRIGE PREDICTS END OF U.S.-JAPAN TRADE DISPUTE The United States and Japan willsoon settle their trade dispute over semiconductors, U.S.Commerce secretary Malcolm Baldrige said on television.    Baldrige, referring to the U.S.-Japan trade agreement onsemiconductors, said: "Their government wants to live up to it.Their industries haven't been doing it, and I think we'll havea good settlement to spare both sides."    "I think the Japanese understand full well that they haven'tlived up to this commitment," he said.    He added: "I do not think there will be a trade war at all."    On Friday, Washington announced plans to put as much as 300mln dlrs in tariffs on Japanese electronic goods from April 17,because of Tokyo's failure to observe the agreement.    The officials said the tariffs would be ended as soon asJapan started adhering to the agreement. But they said therewas little chance Japan could react quickly enough to avert thehigher tariffs.    Baldrige said the Reagan administration hoped the strongU.S. Action against Japan would convince Congress to tone downprotectionist trade legislation now being drafted.    He denied the action had been taken for that reason. REUTER
JAPAN HAS LITTLE NEW TO OFFER IN MICROCHIP DISPUTE The Japanese government appears to havelittle new to offer to settle a dispute with the U.S. Overcomputer chips, trade analysts and government officials said.    The U.S. Has threatened to impose tariffs worth up to 300mln dlrs on Japanese electronics exports to the U.S., Inretaliation for Japan's alleged failure to keep a pact on themicrochip trade signed last September.    A Foreign Ministry official told Reuters "Japan has donewhat it can, and now we must persuade the United States to waitfor those steps to take effect."    The U.S. Alleges that, in defiance of the Septemberagreement, Japan is still selling microchips at below cost innon-U.S. Markets and refusing to open Japan further to U.S.Chip sales. U.S. Tariffs are due to take effect on April 17.     Analysts noted Japan's Ministry of International Trade andIndustry (MITI) has already ordered chipmakers to cutproduction in order to dry up the source of cheap chips sold inthird countries at non-regulated prices.    "I'm not sure MITI can do much more than it has," saidJardine Fleming (Securities) Ltd analyst Nick Edwards.    A MITI official said the Ministry was not planning to callfor production cuts beyond those already sought, although itwould continue to press chip users to buy more foreign goods.    Spokesmen for some Japanese electronics firms said theywould consider buying more U.S. Chips. But a MatsushitaElectric Industrial Co spokesman said a rapid increase inimports was not likely.    Most analysts said Japanese exporters would be hard hit ifthe United States did implement the tariffs, which would belevied on consumer electronics products rather than onmicrochips themselves.    "If the tariffs remain in place for any length of time,there will be complete erosion of exports to the United States,"said Tom Murtha, analyst at James Capel and Co.    "The Japanese electronics industry is too powerful to bestopped altogether, but recovery for the industry will bedelayed for another year," he said.    Some analysts said tariffs would also harm U.S. Industry bystepping up offshore production and by reducing demand in Japanfor semiconductors U.S. Firms are trying to sell here.    "The American approach is full of contradictions," JardineFleming's Edwards said.    "If they want to expand (U.S.) exports, the last thing theywant to do is hit the makers of the final products because thathurts the final market," Edwards said.    But other analysts said the dispute reflects not just U.S.Concern over what it sees as a strategic industry, but alsofrustration with Japan's vast trade surplus. Some analystsargued that to solve the semiconductor problem Japan may haveto take action beyond that pledged in the semiconductor pact.    Carole Ryavec, an analyst at Salomon Brothers Asia Ltd,said "The major overall issue is to stimulate the domesticeconomy and move away from an export-dependent economy." REUTER
NAKASONE SOUNDS CONCILIATORY NOTE IN CHIP DISPUTE Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone soundeda conciliatory note in Japan's increasingly bitter row with theUnited States over trade in computer microchips.    "Japan wants to resolve the issue through consultations byexplaining its stance thoroughly and correcting the points thatneed to be corrected," he was quoted by Kyodo News Service assaying.    While expressing regret over America's decision to imposetariffs on imports of Japanese electrical goods, Nakasone saidTokyo was willing to send a high-level official to Washingtonto help settle the dispute.    Government officials said Japan would make a formal requestnext week for emergency talks and that the two sides wouldprobably meet the week after, just days before the April 17deadline set by Washington for the tariffs to take effect.    Tokyo is expected to propose a joint U.S./Japaninvestigation of American claims that Japanese companies aredumping cut-price chips in Asian markets.    On Friday, Washington announced plans to put as much as 300mln dlrs in tariffs on imports of certain Japanese electronicgoods in retaliation for what it sees as Tokyo's failure tolive up to their bilateral chip pact. Reuter
JAPAN ISOLATED, YEN RISES, WORLD FEELS CHEATED Japan is becoming dangerously isolatedagain as the U.S. And Europe feel they have been cheated byJapanese promises to switch from export to domestic-led growth,officials and businessmen from around the world said.    As the dollar today slipped to a record low below 145 yen,making Japanese exporters and holders of dollar investmentsgrit their teeth harder, Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa saidthere was a perception Japan had reneged on its promise.    The problem goes deep and centres on misunderstandings byboth sides over the key Maekawa report of April, last year.    The document was prepared by a private committee formed byPrime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone and led by former Bank ofJapan head Haruo Maekawa. It recommended that to stop frictiondue to its large trade surpluses, Japan must "make a historicaltransformation in its traditional policies on economicmanagement and the nation's lifestyle. There can be no furtherdevelopment for Japan without this transformation."    Americans and Europeans took the report to heart and havelooked in vain for clear signs of this historic change. But theJapanese remain doubtful about the short, or even medium termprospects of totally transforming their economic habits.    The bubble of frustration against what appears as Japaneseprevarication burst last week. The U.S. Said it intended toraise tariffs of as much as 300 mln dlrs on Japanese exports tothe U.S. On the grounds Japan had abrogated a bilateralsemiconductor pact.    British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher threatened toblock Japanese financial firms from London after the Japaneseplaced what the British say are restrictive conditions on a bidby British firm Cable and Wireless to join a domestictelecommunications joint venture.    On Friday, European currency dealers said European centralbanks, annoyed at restrictive Japanese trade practises, mightleave Japan alone to intervene to staunch the rise of the yen.    Eishiro Saito, head of top Japanese business groupKeidanren, spotted the dangers inherent in such contradictoryviews last November when he visited the European Community."Related to this matter of (trade) imbalance, the point that Ifound to be of great cause for alarm during this trip to Europewas the excessive degree of hope placed by the Europeans in theresults of the Maekawa report," he said.    "We explained that the process of restructuring the economyaway from its dependence on exports toward a balance betweendomestic and external demand...Would take time," Saito said.    Saito's words were ignored. In February, EC IndustrialPolicy Director Heinrich von Moltke came to Japan and said "Ionly know that your government, under the leadership ofMaekawa, points to restructuring your economy into a lessoutward looking, more inward looking one. It is the Maekawareport which has attracted the most attention in Europe."    And Europeans and Americans want quick action. "A far betteranswer than protectionism would be structural change within theJapanese economy, the kind suggested by the Maekawa report. Andwe hope to see changes occur in the near future," visitingChairman of General Motors Roger Smith said in March.    Such expectations are now ingrained, which was partly thefault of Nakasone, who heralded Maekawa's report as a sea ofchange in Japanese affairs, said U.S. Officials.    Months before the report was issued, U.S. And EC businessleaders met their Japanese colleagues to discuss the tradeproblem.    "We are more anxious than ever that the new approach of theMaekawa committee does lead to speedy and effective action,"said EC Industrial Union leader Lord Ray Pennock.    "The important implication of the Maekawa report is that itis finally looking to let Japanese enjoy the fruits of theirlabour," said Philip Caldwell, Senior Managing Director ofShearson Lehman Brothers.    Contents of the report were leaded well ahead of issuance.    Japanese officials say they are implementing the report asfast as they can, said a European ambassador who has travelledthe country asking about this issue.    He said People mentioned many things in line with thespirit of the report, including restructuring of the coal andsteel industries.    A major misunderstanding is that the private report wasgovernment policy. Europeans are confused about this,underlined by von Moltke's reference to the "leadership" of theMaekawa report. Even so, Japanese officials point to lastSeptember's government programme of new economic measures."Without endorsing the report as policy, officials point outthat the government has put its signature to a programmedesigned to implement the report," the ambassador said. REUTER
TOKYO BIDS TO STOP CHIP ROW BECOMING TRADE WAR Japan is seeking to prevent its computerchips dispute with the U.S. From erupting into a full-scaletrade war, government officials said.    "We hope that the dispute on this specific issue won't havean adverse effect on our overall relationship with the UnitedStates," a Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI)official said.     On Friday, Washington announced plans for as much as 300mln dlrs in tariffs on Japanese electronic goods for Tokyo'salleged failure to live up to a bilateral computer chip pact.    That agreement, reached last year after heatednegotiations, called on Japan to stop selling cut-price chipsin world markets and to buy more American-made semiconductors.    Foreign Ministry officials immediately tried to isolate thefall-out from the dispute by seeking to separate it from PrimeMinister Yasuhiro Nakasone's planned trip to Washington at theend of April.    While Japan has already done about all it can to make surethe chip pact is working, the government is studying measuresit can take in other fields to defuse American anger and ensurethe trip's success, they said.    "The perception of Japan in the (U.S.) Congress is very bad,"one official told Reuters. "We would very much like to dosomething to respond to that."    In an apparent effort to prevent the chip dispute fromspreading to other areas, MITI officials sought to depict theU.S. Action as a severe warning to Japanese semiconductormakers, not to the government.    Faced with a belligerent domestic chip industry and anangry American Congress, the Japanese government has beenforced to walk an increasingly fine line in the semiconductordispute, trade analysts said.    They said that it was an open secret that Japan's largestchip maker, NEC Corp, was not happy with what it viewed as thedraconian measures MITI was taking to implement the pact,included enforced production cuts.    The angry response of Japanese chip makers yesterday to theannouncement of the U.S. Tariffs highlighted the difficultiesthe government faces in taking further action.    "Japanese semiconductor manufacturers have complied with theU.S./Japan agreement," said Shoichi Saba, Chairman of theElectronic Industries Association of Japan.    He accused the U.S. of being "irrational." He said the U.S.action had made the bilateral chip pact "meaningless."    Saba's comments contrasted with those of Prime MinisterYasuhiro Nakasone, who said Tokyo wanted to solve the disputethrough consultations.    Japan is expected to send a high-level official toWashington early next month to try to convince the U.S. Not togo ahead with the tariffs on April 17.    Trade analysts say Tokyo is likely to outline industryplans to step up purchases of U.S. chips and to propose a jointinvestigation into U.S. allegations of chip dumping. Reuter
U.S. APPEARS TO TOLERATE FURTHER DLR DECLINE In a bid to hasten Japan's promiseto speed up its economic growth and open markets to foreigntrade, top U.S. officials appear once again to have signaledtheir tolerance of a lower dollar.    Treasury Secretary James Baker and one of his top aides,Assistant Secretary David Mulford, said last week there was notarget for the dollar, a statement that sent the yen soaringagainst the dollar, despite massive central bank intervention.    "That was no slip of the tongue," said one western monetaryofficial, who asked not to be identified.    For now, the strategy appears to be working. Japaneseofficials said late last week a package to bolster domesticdemand will be ready in early April. Until last week, therewere few indications the package would be ready anytime soon.    The Reagan administration, facing an uproar in Congressover the apparent lack of progress in cutting the 169.8 billiondlr trade deficit, is learning now that to extract results fromJapan, dramatic action is required.    Last week the White House imposed unprecedented tariffs oncertain Japanese electronic goods after Tokyo failed to adhereto a semi-conductor pricing accord between the two countries.    The shift in U.S. strategy, in part designed to appeasemounting Congressional anger over Japanese policies, comes justtwo weeks before industrial nations reconvene here to reviewthe Paris agreement to stabilize currencies.    And news that Japan earned a record 18 billion dlr tradesurplus in the first two months this year just underscored theneed for urgent action, in the view of U.S. officials.    Nonetheless, U.S. officials see signs of improvement in thedeficit. "I'd be stunned if we were not going to derive somebenefits (from the lower dollar) soon," said one.    In Paris, leading industrial nations agreed to cooperateclosely to foster currency stability within ranges reflecting"underlying economic fundamentals" or economic reality.    The agreement envisages those fundamentals to include Japanand West Germany stimulating their economies and the UnitedStates cutting its budget deficit.    The three nations, joined by France, Britain and Canada,agree these policies are essential to redress huge global tradeimbalances.    But analysts say markets have signalled the underlyingfundamentals imply a lower dollar, rather than a stable one.    Markets, in effect, are less confident than governmentsthat these measures -- including U.S. budget deficit cutsagreed by Congress and the White House --will be carried out.    Nonetheless, the dollar's sharp fall has not undermined cooperation. A U.S. economic policymaker said the accord was ontrack and Tokyo and Bonn seem "to want more stimulative measureswhich is what the Paris accord calls for."    International monetary sources said exchange marketdevelopments generally have not unsettled policymakers,although Japan is an obvious exception. "Everybody feels it canstill be managed," one source said of market developments.    But last week, the Bank of Japan spent an estimated fivebillion dlrs intervening to halt the rise in the yen, and othercentral banks about one billion dlrs.    Another monetary source said Japan was upset with America'shalf-hearted attempt to halt the falling dollar, flouting theParis accord outright.    The source, close to the top levels of Japanese economicpolicymaking, said Japan's understanding of the accord was thatthe yen would be kept at around 154 to the dollar, the level itstood at when the accord was struck.    The source said Tokyo was extremely worried by Washington'suse of the exchange rate to change Japanese policies. It was a"pointed reminder" to Japan to do something about the tradeissues, the source said of the dollar's fall against the yen.    By departing last Sunday from the language of the Parisaccord -- that nations agreed to foster currency stabilityaround current levels -- Baker triggered a run on the dollar.    Later in the week, Mulford too said there was no target forthe dollar and called on Japan and West Germany to live up totheir international responsibilities and stimulate growth.    But U.S. officials said recent market developments will notunravel the spirit of the Paris agreement.    "There's a realisation now that you cannot leave thingsalone, everyone agrees that the external (trade) imbalancesought to be adjusted," one official said.    "While no-one is going to cede national sovereignty, wecertainly seem to be moving towards much closer co-operation,"another U.S. official said.    The officials said the meeting here, where the six will bejoined by Italy, will be a status report.    "Japan will have to explain what the state of their programis and Germany will report on its plans. Maybe there's a needto move faster," one source said.    Mulford told Congress last week the Paris accord called, ineffect, for currency stability for several months. This wouldbuy time for Japan and West Germany to speed up their economicgrowth and help bring down the U.S. trade deficit.    His comments appeared to serve notice on other majornations that Washington cannot wait too long for action toreduce the gap between the Japanese and German trade surplusesand the U.S. trade deficit. Reuter
BALDRIGE PREDICTS END OF U.S.-JAPAN TRADE DISPUTE The United States and Japan willsoon settle their trade dispute over semiconductors, U.S.Commerce secretary Malcolm Baldrige said on television.    Baldrige, referring to the U.S.-Japan trade agreement onsemiconductors, said: "Their government wants to live up to it.Their industries haven't been doing it, and I think we'll havea good settlement to spare both sides."    "I think the Japanese understand full well that they haven'tlived up to this commitment," he said.    He added: "I do not think there will be a trade war at all."    On Friday, Washington announced plans to put as much as 300mln dlrs in tariffs on Japanese electronic goods from April 17,because of Tokyo's failure to observe the agreement.    The officials said the tariffs would be ended as soon asJapan started adhering to the agreement. But they said therewas little chance Japan could react quickly enough to avert thehigher tariffs.    Baldrige said the Reagan administration hoped the strongU.S. Action against Japan would convince Congress to tone downprotectionist trade legislation now being drafted.    He denied the action had been taken for that reason. REUTER
H.K. DEALERS SAY NAKASONE G-6 COMMENT TOO LATE Remarks by Japan's Prime MinisterYasuhiro Nakasone that last month's G-6 meeting agreed tostabilize the dollar above 150 yen have come too late toinfluence currency trading, dealers said.    After Nakasone's statement the dollar rose to 146.40/50 yenfrom an initial low of 144.20/40 and New York's Friday finishof 147.15/25. But the rebound was largely on short-covering,they said.    "I think (Nakasone's) desperate," said a U.S. Bank foreignexchange manager.    Nakasone told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliamentthat Japan and other industrialized nations committedthemselves in Paris last month to stabilize the dollar above150 yen.    Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told the same committeethat the six - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. AndWest Germany - had intervened aggressively since the dollarfell below 150 yen.    "His (Nakasone) remarks should have been made and shouldhave had a bigger influence when the dollar was still above 150yen," said P.S. Tam of Morgan Guaranty Trust.    Tam said the dollar has hit short-term chart targets  andis likely to rebound. But he warned of another dip to below 145yen.    Dealers said the worsening trade relations between the U.S.And Japan will continue to depress the dollar.    The trade issue has now become a political issue since theReagan Administration is facing uproar in Congress overth3pYgks in cutting the country's 169.8 billion dlr tradedeficit, they said. REUTER
YUGOSLAV TRADE FALLS SHARPLY  STATISTICS SHOW Yugoslav trade is declining rapidlythis year in hard currency terms, according to the latestFederal Statistics Office (FSO) figures.    The FSO figures showed total exports from January 1 toMarch 23 valued at 875.59 billion dinars, compared with 667.18billion dinars in the same period last year.    These figures were down by 12.5 pct on last year in dollarterms due to exchange rate fluctuations and changes in how thefigures were calculated, FSO sources said.    This year current exchange rates were used for the firsttime instead of a fixed rate of 24.53 dinars to the dollar.    BELGRADE, March 30 - Yugoslav trade is declining rapidlythis year in hard currency terms, according to the latestFederal Statistics Office (FSO) figures.    The FSO figures showed total exports from January 1 toMarch 23 valued at 875.59 billion dinars, compared with 667.18billion dinars in the same period last year.    These figures were down by 12.5 pct on last year in dollarterms due to exchange rate fluctuations and changes in how thefigures were calculated, FSO sources said.    This year current exchange rates were used for the firsttime instead of a fixed rate of 24.53 dinars to the dollar.
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - U.S. CONGRESS RAPS JAPAN The U.S. Congress is making Japan,with its enormous worldwide trade surplus, the symbol of theU.S. trade crisis and the focus of its efforts to turn aroundAmerica's record trade deficit.    "Japan has come to symbolize what we fear most in trade: thechallenge to our high technology industries, the threat ofgovernment nutured competition, and the multitude of barriersto our exports," Senate Democratic Leader Robert Byrd said.    "If we can find a way to come to terms with Japan over tradeproblems, we can manage our difficulties with other countries,"the West Virginia Democrat said at a Senate Finance Committeehearing on the trade bill.    Byrd and House Speaker Jim Wright, a Texas Democrat, havemade trade legislation a priority this year and a wide-rangingbill is being readied for probable House approval next month.    Japan's bilateral trade surplus jumped from 12 billion dlrsin 1980 to 62 billion dlrs last year. Its surplus rose to 8.14billion dlrs in February from 5.7 billion dlrs in January.    Congress points to the record 169 billion dlrs U.S. tradedeficit in 1986 and the slow response in the trade imbalance tothe dollar's decline in world currency markets as a reason topress Japan to buy more U.S. goods.    They are particularly dismayed by the rapid deteriorationin U.S. exports of sophisticated computer technology.    In response to the growing anger and pressure by the U.S.semiconductor industry, President Reagan Friday announced heintended to raise tariffs as much as 300 mln dlrs on Japaneseelectronic goods in retaliation for Japan's failure to abide bya 1986 U.S.-Japanese semiconductor agreement.    Congress also has been been angered by the administration'slack of success with Japan on a host of other trade issuesincluding beef, citrus, automobile parts, telecommunicationsgoods, and financial services.    The bulk of the House trade bill was written last week infour committees. It is a package of trade sanctions andmeasures to force the administration take tough action againstforeign trade barriers and unfair competition.    Although most provisions do not single out Japan, in manycases their impact would be to restrict imports of Japaneseproducts or make them more expensive with higher duties.    The cornerstone of the trade legislation passed the HouseWays and Means Committee by a vote of 34 to 2. Its focus is toforce President Reagan to retaliate against unfair foreigncompetition and to make it easier for U.S. industries to wintemporary relief from surges in imports.    The most controversial issue, an amendment to restrictimports if countries such as Japan with large surpluses do notbuy more U.S. goods was left for an April vote by the House.    Rep. Richard Gephardt, a Democratic presidential aspirantfrom Missouri, has the support of Wright and other keyDemocrats to press for passage of the amendment.    The measure would have the most impact on Japan, WestGermany, Taiwan and South Korea. If Japan, for example, doesnot reduce its barriers by mid-1988, the United States wouldset import quotas or tariffs to cut Japanese surplus by ten percent a year for three years.    "I'm tired of going into companies and having managers sayto me, 'We're not over competing in Japan because we can'tcompete in the marketplace.' That argument needs to be takenaway from American business," Gephardt said.    The administration has said it could not support a tradebill containing such a provision.    
U.S. TRADE OFFICIAL SAYS JAPAN ACTION FOOLISH A high level U.S. trade officialsaid it would be foolish for Japan to strike back against theUnited States for its sanctions on Japanese semiconductorelectronics products.    Asked by reporters if Japan was expected to retaliateagainst U.S. exports, Deputy Under Secretary of Commerce BruceSmart replied, "That would be the height of foolishness."    In addition, he doubted Japan could show enough progress inmeeting the conditions of the agreement to avoid the actualimposition of the 300 mln dlrs in tariffs on April 17.    Japan's 58.6 billion dlr trade surplus with the UnitedStates last year has come under fire in Congress concernedabout the loss of jobs to foreign competition and with therecord 169 billion dlrs U.S. trade deficit in 1986.    President Reagan's sanctions decision won praise today fromthe two Democratic leaders of Congress.    "I think it's about time," Senate Democratic Leader RobertByrd of West Virginia told reporters. House Speaker Jim Wrightof Texas told reporters before the opening of the Housesession, "It just shows we were right all along when we saidsomething needs doing."    Smart testified before a Senate Labor Committee hearingthat last Friday's U.S. trade action would help U.S.negotiations on access to Japan for U.S. auto parts.    Since last August Smart has been leading talks to open upJapan to purchases of more U.S.-made automotive parts. Lastyear, Japan racked up a 3.6 billion dlr trade surplus with theUnited States in these products.    Both countries expect to conclude the talks by August 1987.    "It's amazing to me that the Japanese were surprised. Ihope it will persuade them we're serious," Smart said of theWhite House trade sanctions.    The United States has tried to convince Japanese carcompanies of the quality of American-made parts and to drawthem away from their traditional Japanese suppliers.    "All we ask is a chance. We have a job to do persuading themwe can do better than our reputation seems to be," he said.    Measured per car, each American-made car contained about700 dlrs in Japanese auto parts while each Japanese-made carcontained about 26 dlrs in U.S. auto parts, Smart said. Reuter
EUROPEAN COMMUNITY TO SET UP OFFICE IN PEKING China and the European Community (EC)signed an agreement on the establishment of an EC office here.    Chinese vice-foreign minister Zhou Nan and the EC'sexternal relations commissioner, Willy De Clercq, signed theaccord. EC sources said the office was likely to open in thesecond half of this year.    In 1986 the EC was China's third largest trading partner,with Chinese imports from the EC worth 5.7 billion dlrs andexports worth 2.6 billion dlrs.    De Clercq told the official China Daily that more jointventures should be set up in China as a way of reducing China'strade deficit with the EC.    The EC's affairs in China are currently looked after bywhichever country holds the group's six-monthly rotatingpresidency, now held by the Belgians until the Danes take overin July. REUTER
TRADE FRICTION THREATENS TO TOPPLE NAKASONE Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone may havebeen dealt a fatal political blow by the yen's renewed rapidrise and the threat of a trade war with the United States,political analysts said.    Nakasone, already under fire over an unpopular tax reformplan, may now be forced to resign before the June economicsummit of seven industrialised nations if local elections laternext month go against candidates from his ruling LiberalDemocratic Party (LDP), they said.    "The close relationship between Nakasone and PresidentReagan was an important element of Nakasone's power base,"Waseda University Political Science Professor Mitsuru Uchidatold Reuters. "So the emergence of U.S. Criticism damagesNakasone."    Even before the latest trade friction flared, Nakasone wasencountering criticism not only from opposition parties butalso within his own LDP over his proposal to levy a sales tax.    "Many factions within the LDP are distancing themselves fromNakasone," Uchida said. "His position within the LDP itself isnot so strongly established today."    Nakasone, who has been more popular with the general publicthan with many LDP members, is now seeing his public supporteroded, the analysts said.    The yen's rise to record highs and the U.S. Threat onFriday to impose tariffs on Japanese electronics goods inretaliation for Japan's alleged violation of a microchip tradepact are now giving Nakasone's critics fresh ammunition, theanalysts said.    "Apparently the special relationship between Reagan andNakasone hasn't worked effectively," Rei Shiratori, director ofthe Institute for Political Studies in Japan, said.    This is making the Japanese people doubt Nakasone'scredibility, Shiratori told Reuters.    The cumulative impact of the sales tax issue, the yen'srise and mounting trade friction could mean serious LDP lossesin the April 11 and 26 local elections, analysts said.    "If the elections go against the LDP, Nakasone may have toresign early," Shiratori said.    But Nakasone still has a chance to soothe U.S. Tempersbefore or during his week-long Washington visit from April 29,some analysts said.    However, "unless the Japanese political system can move morequickly to give Nakasone some nice present to take toWashington on smouldering trade issues, he will face a veryhostile audience," said Merrill Lynch Securities economistWilliam Sterling.    "If the trip is a major disaster, it would seem to put thefinal nail in his coffin," he said.    Reagan's own weakened domestic position, and growingRepublican as well as Democratic anger with Japan, argueagainst a quick settlement to the trade dispute, the analystssaid.    But a desire on both sides to find some solution, coupledwith uncertainty at home and abroad over likely successors toNakasone, could still lead to an attempt to paper over thedifferences and aid Nakasone, they said.    "One factor against a trade war may be that Washington isnot anxious to push Nakasone into his grave," Sterling said. REUTER
 EUROPE ON SIDELINES IN U.S-JAPAN MICROCHIP ROW Rising imports of Japanese-made cars andelectronic goods may upset West European officials, but theygenerally seem prepared to stay on the sidelines in the latesttrade row between the United States and Japan.    Japan's huge trade surplus is a sore point in West Europe,as it is in the United States. But U.S. Charges of unfair tradepractices involving computer microchips leave Europeans cold.    The European Community ran a 18.2 billion dlr trade deficitwith Japan last year, and seeks redress when it feels Japanesetrade policy hurts Europeans, diplomats and economists said.    But only in Britain has there been any suggestion of actingwith the U.S. To do something about Japan's huge trade surplus.    "The EC is no more illiberal on trade issues than is theU.S.," said Martin Wolf, director of studies at the Trade PolicyResearch Centre in London. "Basically, their policies are prettymuch the same."    But that did not mean Europe would support the U.S., Orthat the EC would climb on the bandwagon to take advantage ofthe U.S. Dispute to press its own claims, Wolf said.Basically,Europeans have a different approach to trade problems, he said.    "In the U.S., People talk about fair trade, but not here," headded. "In the U.S., It all has to do with the general ethic offree competition, while in Europe, the general approach is thatliberal trade is good because it makes countries rich."    Wolf said this basic U.S. Attitude explains Washington'stendency to impose so-called "countervailing duties" - an importtax designed to offset advantages alleged to be unfair.    In Western Europe, the approach to trade disputes tends tobe to try to reach a settlement through negotiation, Wolf said.    In the latest U.S.-Japan trade row, President Reagan hasthreatened to raise tariffs on selected Japanese electronicgoods by as much as 300 mln dlrs, alleging that Japan hasfailed to abide by a 1986 U.S.-Japan pact on microchip trade.    But the European Community has challenged the agreement asa violation of General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT)practices that discriminates against its microchip producers.    "It follows that they're not likely to rally to the side ofthe United States in defence of the agreement," said Wolf.    Although British parliamentarians are pushing for a toughline on Japanese trade issues, government officials in the restof Europe told Reuter correspondents they would let the EC takethe lead in any response to the U.S.-Japan trade row.    A spokeswoman for the EC Commission in Brussels toldReuters there has been no change in the Community's positionsince a March 16 meeting of foreign ministers which sent astrong warning to Tokyo on trade imbalances.    In a statement issued after that meeting, EC foreignministers deplored Japan's continued trade imbalance andappealed for a greater Japanese effort to open up its markets.    EC External Trade Commissioner Willy De Clercq said afterthe talks there was a growing impatience with Japan in the EC.    Diplomats accredited to the EC in Brussels said they saw nosigns of any immediate intention to impose any broad-rangingsanctions against Japan. The EC is anxious to avoid provoking atrade war, they said.    Instead, the Community is trying to target problem areas inEuropean trade with Japan, including wines and spirits,cosmetics, and financial services, and will continue talking totry to improve the situation, the diplomats said.    In Britain, where the government is angered over thedifficulties telecommunications giant Cable and Wireless hasfaced in its bid to crack the Japanese market, officials saidlast week that retaliatory action is being considered.    But government officials said last night, "We are nottalking about days or weeks. This is going to take time."    They said the government would consider its options at acabinet meeting on Thursday, but added that no final decisionswere expected. The main thing the British would threaten theJapan with is denial of access to London's booming financialmarkets, government officials said. REUTER
S. KOREA MINISTER TO VISIT U.S. FOR CURRENCY TALKS South Korea's Finance Minister ChungIn-yong will visit U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker nextweek to discuss U.S. Requests for an appreciation of SouthKorea's won against the dollar, finance ministry officialssaid.    They said Chung would leave for Washington on Monday toattend the International Monetary Fund's (IMF) InterimCommittee meeting and for talks with U.S. Officials on ways ofreducing Seoul's trade surplus with Washington.    The dates for the Baker-Chung meeting have yet to be set.    The IMF committee meeting, scheduled for April 9, isexpected to review the resolution reached by the six topindustrialised nations in Paris last month calling for newlyindustrialised countries, such as South Korea and Taiwan, toallow their currencies to rise.    The official said Chung is expected to outline Seoul'sefforts to increase imports of U.S. Goods and to stress theneed for South Korea to maintain a trade surplus in the nextfew years in order to cut foreign debts totalling some 44.5billion dlrs.    South Korea has ruled out a major revaluation of the won,but is allowing its currency to appreciate slowly.    Trade Minister Rha Woong-bae told the U.S. Chamber ofCommerce earlier this month a sudden won revaluation couldresult in South Korea running a large trade deficit and beingforced to renege on its international debt repayments.    The Bank of Korea, the central bank, today fixed the won ata two-year high of 846.90. The won has gained 5.1 pct since thebeginning of 1986.    South Korea's trade surplus with the U.S. Rose to 7.1billion dlrs last year from 4.3 billion in 1985. REUTER
THATCHER SAYS TRADE TARGETS SET WITH MOSCOW British Prime Minister Margaret Thatchersaid she and Soviet Premier Nikolai Ryzhkov had set targets forincreased trade between the two countries during talks earliertoday.    She said she hoped more economic exchanges between Britainand the Soviet Union "will also lead to increased friendship andincreased understanding."    Earlier, she told a meeting of Soviet and Britishbusinessmen that she had agreed with Ryzhkov that they wouldwork to achieve a total volume of 2.5 billion roubles inbilateral trade by 1990.    This would entail an increase by each side of 350 to 400mln stg over their present export levels.    "Mr Ryzhkov handed me a list of import and exportopportunities which I hope you will all jump at," she told themeeting to mark the opening of new offices of the British-Soviet Chamber of Commerce.    After her talks with Ryzhkov, Thatcher and the SovietPremier were joined for the signing of agreements covering newscientific and cultural exchanges by Kremlin leader MikhailGorbachev, who had nine hours of talks with her yesterday. REUTER
JAPAN TO CUT MICROCHIP OUTPUT, BOOST IMPORTS Leading domestic semiconductor makerswill boost imports and cut production of key memory microchipsfrom next month in line with government attempts to ward offU.S. Trade sanctions, company spokesmen said.    The moves might persuade the U.S. To call off thesanctions, despite obstacles to full implementation of theplans, analysts said.    The tariffs will affect about 300 mln dlrs worth ofproducts and are in retaliation for Japan's alleged failure tohonour a semiconductor trade pact.    In announcing the sanctions last Friday, President Reagansaid Japan had not fulfilled its promise to halt predatorypricing and open Japan's market to foreign products.    But U.S. Trade representative Clayton Yeutter saidyesterday on U.S. Television that the U.S. Is willing to dropthe tariffs if Japan shows a "clear indication" that it will openits markets to U.S. Goods.    The Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) hasurged producers to slash output of the chips by 11 pct in thesecond quarter, following a call to reduce production by morethan 20 pct the previous quarter.    MITI also urged makers to boost chip imports.    Analysts said the moves could encourage Washington tocancel the tariffs ahead of next month's meeting between PrimeMinister Yasuhiro Nakasone and President Reagan.    "The U.S. Wants to be satisfied. It has rattled its swordand shown that it can and will do business," said analyst NickEdwards at Jardine Fleming Securities Ltd in Tokyo.    But analysts cautioned that although Japanese producers cancut output, boosting imports -- the key to U.S. Withdrawal ofthe sanctions -- is more difficult.    "The U.S. Does not have the low-end consumer IC's(integrated circuits) that the Japanese need for consumerproducts. They're well supplied here," said Richard May, senioranalyst at Barclays de Zoete Wedd Ltd in Tokyo.    The U.S. Leads in production of medium and high-end IC's,but Japanese makers are keen to develop their own high-endproduction skills, the analysts said.    "The Japanese must be prepared to trade some losses onsemiconductors in return for free access to other areas," saidEdwards.    A spokesman for Hitachi Ltd <HIT.T>, said the firm'sreduced output of 256 kilobit dynamic random access memory(256K DRAM) was unrelated to MITI's efforts to ward off thetrade sanctions. Decreased production was a natural result ofthe company increasing output of one-mln bit DRAM's, he said.    Company officials unveiled the following plans -    - NEC Corp <NESI.T>, Japan's largest chipmaker, plans toslash production of 256K DRAM semiconductors by 29.41 pct tosix mln per month from a monthly average of 8.5 mln lastquarter.     In the year beginning April 1, NEC will boost chipimports, which comprised some 20 pct of all NEC chipconsumption the year before.    - Hitachi Ltd's <HIT.T> April output of 256K DRAM's willfall by 25.93 pct to four mln compared to 5.4 mln in March. Thecompany is trying to boost imports but has not set a specifictarget. Imports are currently very low.    - Toshiba Corp <TSBA.T> will reduce April 256K DRAMproduction by 16.67 pct to just over four mln and isconsidering ways to boost imports, a company official said.    Toshiba has an agreement with Motorola Inc (MOT.N) to sellthe U.S. Firm's chips in Japan. The firms are planning ajoint-venture production of memory chips in Sendai, northernJapan.    - Mitsubishi Electric Corp (MIET.T) will trim secondquarter output by about 10 pct to between 5.5 mln to 5.6 mlnchips compared to the first quarter. Plans call for increasedimports but an official said "boosting imports will be difficultas it depends on sales demand."    - Fujitsu Ltd (ITSU.T) will cut production in accord withMITI guidelines and boost imports from currently low levels.    - Oki Electric Industry Co Ltd (OKIE.T) will reduce Aprilproduction by 10 pct from March's 3.2 mln. Oki is studying waysto increase imports by 10 pct in the fiscal year beginningApril 1 from the previous year's total of more than fivebillion yen, a company official said. REUTER
MAURITIAN SUGAR EXPORTS FALL IN FEBRUARY Mauritius exported 47,144 tonnes ofsugar (tel quel) in February, down from 57,911 tonnes (telquel) shipped in January and 89,351 in February 1986, theMauritius Chamber of Agriculture's Sugar News Bulletin said.    Opening stocks at the beginning of last month totalled320,057 tonnes, against 288,406 tonnes at the start of Februarylast year. Closing stocks at the end of February were 270,212tonnes, up from 196,309 tonnes at end-February 1986.    The estimate for 1986 sugar production was unchanged fromlast month at 748,472 tonnes, raw value, the Chamber said. REUTER
U.S. MAY DROP TARIFFS IF JAPAN OPENS - YEUTTER The U.S. Is willing to drop tariffs onJapanese electronic imports if Japan shows it will abide by anagreemement opening its markets to American goods, U.S. TradeRepresentative Clayton Yeutter said in a TV interview.    "But there has to be a clear indication that they arewilling to act," he said.    Yeutter said difficulties in the Japanese economy caused bythe U.S. Tariffs and the yen's rise against the dollar areproblems "they have brought on themselves."    The dollar fell to 40-year lows against the yen today.    "Certainly the movement of the yen is causing some economicturmoil in Japan," he said. "My only response is that we havegone through about five years with the dollar going in just theopposite direction. Although I can sympathise, it's occurredfor only a few weeks or months in Japan."    The tarriffs, announced on Friday by President Reagan, willaffect about 300 million dlrs worth of products, only a tinyfraction of Japan's total exports to the U.S.    Even so, Reagan's decision "doesn't give us any joy. Wedon't want to take retaliatory action here if we don't have to,"Yeutter said.    Yeutter said the meetings scheduled next month inWashington between Reagan and Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasonewill include "some difficult items on the agenda."    Japan has failed to implement two parts of a three-partsemiconductor agreement, Yeutter said.    Japan has stopped dumping chips in the U.S. But it hasfailed to open its domestic markets to U.S.-made chips and hasfailed to end predatory pricing in Third World countries,undercutting U.S. Products, he said. REUTER
SOUTH KOREA TO RESIST CURRENCY REVALUATION South Korean Finance Minister ChungIn-yong will resist pressure for a currency revaluation to cutSouth Korea's trade surplus with the United States when hemeets Treasury Secretary James Baker next week, FinanceMinistry officials said.    They said Chung would leave Monday to attend theInternational Monetary Fund's Interim Committee meeting and tohold talks with Baker and other U.S. officials on ways toreduce the surplus.    The April 9 committee meeting is expected to review theagreement by six industrialized nations in Paris last monththat newly-industrialized countries, such as South Korea andTaiwan, should allow their currencies to increase in value. Reuter
EC APPROVES MEDITERRANEAN FINANCIAL PACKAGES EC ministers have approved financialpackages for several Mediterranean states totalling 1.6 billionEuropean currency units, an EC official said.    The packages, part of special EC trade agreements withTunisia, Egypt, Lebanon, Israel, Algeria, Morocco and Jordanuntil 1992, include 615 mln Ecus in grants, he said.    They include one billion Ecus in loans from the EuropeanInvestment Bank, the EC long-term financing arm. The frameworkfor the transfers was signed yesterday by EC farm ministersafter being agreed in principle by foreign ministers earlier. Reuter
SOVIET UNION SEEN WATCHING CHINA GATT APPLICATION China's application to join the GeneralAgreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) is seen as a test case bythe Soviet Union, which will probably demand to follow China, atop European Community official said.    Willy de Clercq, External Relations Commissioner of theEuropean Communities, told a news conference that China'sapplication would involve long and difficult negotiations.    China formally applied to join GATT in July 1986 and inFebruary presented a memorandum backing its application, whichDe Clercq said was now being studied. Questions would then bepresented to China.    "After China, other important state-trading countriesincluding the Soviet Union, will probably demand accession.China's application could be considered a test case," he said.    He said the EC strongly backed China's application, butothers among GATT's 92 contracting parties took a tougher line.    Among the numerous problems of a huge centrally-run economyentering a free trade system are tariffs and reciprocity andthe expectation that China will practice an open-trade policywithout trade discrimination, de Clercq added.    De Clercq noted the different dimensions of the Chineseeconomy and those of Hungary and Yugoslavia, the two currentSocialist GATT members.    On China's import potential, he said a foreign exchangeshortage would force China to import less this year and nextthan in the past, with an emphasis on technological equipmentand capital.    During his visit, De Clercq has met top Chinese leaders andtoday signed an agreement to open a European CommunityCommission office in Peking. REUTER
U.S. SENATE LEADERS SEE NO TRADE WAR BREWING The Senate's Democratic and Republican leaders praised President Reagan for retaliatingagainst Japan for violating a semiconducter accord but dashedcold water on ideas it was the first shot in a trade war.    Senate Democratic Leader Robert Byrd and Republican leaderBob Dole both told the Senate Reagan's decision was longoverdue and urged Japan to open its markets to U.S. goods andstop dumping on world markets.    Each noted in separate speeches that they saw no trade warover the issue, despite concerns in financial markets.    "That fear has no basis in fact," Byrd said. Reuter
YEUTTER SAYS STOCK MARKET OVERREACTED TO JAPAN TRADE The St Lawrence Seaway said the firstship of the season passed through the St Lambert lock here thismorning, officially opening the 2,300-mile-long waterway's 1987shipping season.    The seaway has said it expects little increase in freightlevels this year from last year when it moved 37.6 mln tonnesof freight between Montreal and Lake Ontario and 41.6 mlntonnes on the Welland Canal, which links Lake Erie and LakeOntario. The canal is scheduled to open tomorrow.    Officials expect the waterway to lose nine to ten mlnCanadian dlrs this year, about the same as the estimateddeficit for fiscal 1986-87, which ends today. Reuter
U.S. STOCK MARKET OVERREACTS TO TARIFFS - YEUTTER U.S. Trade Representative ClaytonYeutter said the stock market overreacted to a U.S. decisionlast week to proceed with tariffs on some Japanese computerproducts.    Speaking to reporters prior to testifying at a HouseAgriculture Committee hearing, Yeutter said it is "difficult tocomprehend" that a trade decision affecting only 300 mln dlrsin goods caused the stock market collapse yesterday.    "I have a hunch a lot of other things were involved in that(stock market fall), including simple profit-taking," Yeuttersaid.    Yeutter said Japan would be sending a senior official fromits trade ministry to Washington next week for talks on thecomputer chip dispute.    "We will be glad to have him here, but that's not going toaffect a decision that's already been made," Yeutter said.    The decision announced last week would apply higher tariffson a range of Japanese products in retaliation for the allegedfailure of Tokyo to honor an agreement with the U.S. onsemiconductor trade. Reuter
ENVOY ADVISES NAKASONE TO PREPARE FOR U.S. VISIT The Japanese ambassador to the U.S.Suggested that Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone make efforts topresent "advanced' proposals on trade issues when he visitsWashington next month.    Ambassador Nobuo Matsunaga made the recommendation at ameeting with Nakasone, Kyodo News Service said.    Matsunaga also advised that the prime minister should beprepared to discuss U.S.-Japan economic issues.    Matsunaga cited issues such as a U.S.-Japan micro chiptrade pact, foreign access to the Kansai international airportproject, and a new international telecommunications firm.    Matsunaga returned on Sunday to report to Japanese leaderson recent U.S. Developments over trade, in preparation forNakasone's visit to Washington, April 29 to May 5.    Kyodo quoted Nakasone as telling reporters after meetingthe envoy, "I entirely accept what ambassador Matsunagarecommended." Nakasone did not elaborate.    The U.S.-Japan trade dispute intensified last week whenPresident Ronald Reagan said the U.S. Would impose heavytariffs on Japanese imports in retaliation against allegedJapanese breach of the computer chip trade pact.    Meanwhile, Nakasone's ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP)is to consider measures to boost imports and open up theJapanese market, such as government purchase of supercomputersand expanding foreign access to the Kansai airport project,party sources said.    The LDP international economic affairs council wasresponding to Nakasone's request for measures to reduce Japan'sincreasing trade surpluses with the U.S. And Europe, they said. REUTER
TREASURY'S BAKER SEES 15-20 BILLION DLR U.S. TRADE DEFICIT REDUCTION T Westinghouse Electric Corp <WX>,which designed Brazil's only nuclear plant, has agreed to pay50 mln dlrs compensation for errors made during the project,the plant's operators said.    A spokesman for <Furnas Centrais Eletricas>, a stateutility which runs the Angra One power station, confirmed astatement made in Washington last week by company presidentCamilo Penna.    Penna did not say what errors had been made and the utilityspokesman said he could not add to Penna's statement.    The 636-megawatt plant, dogged by technical problems,started operating in January 1985, but since January 1986 hasnot worked at all due to a variety of problems, the utilityspokesman said.    The country originally intended to have eight more powerstations after Angra One, using West German technology.    Work on one plant, Angra Two, began and then stopped whenfunding ran out. Penna told the Jornal do Brasil that the stateutility was receiving money from the government to finish AngraTwo and build another plant, Angra Three. REUTER
TREASURY'S BAKER SEES SMALLER TRADE DEFICIT Treasury secretary James Bakerpredicted the U.S. trade deficit would decline 15-20 billiondlrs this year.    However, he acknowledged signs were still lacking on such adecline.    "We think we are beginning to see changes," he told the HouseAppropriations Committee.    "It has begun to level off (but) we don't see it beginningto go down yet," he told the panel. Reuter
TREASURY'S BAKER NOT CONCERNED BY BOND DECLINES Treasury Secretary James Baker,asked whether he was concerned about yesterdays precipitousdecline in bond prices, said he was not.    Questioned by reporters as he left a House committeehearing, Baker said "no," when asked about the bond decline,adding that it was a reflection of concern about thepossibility of a trade war.    "It is what the markets think would be the adverseconsequences of a trade war."    He said the administration was concerned that protectionismwould lead to international trade problems adding that hethought the action against the Japanese was still consistentwith this policy. Reuter
U.S.-JAPAN NOT IN TRADE WAR, YEUTTER SAYS The United States and Japan are notinvolved in a trade war, despite U.S. sanctions announced lastweek against Japanese semiconductors, U.S. Trade RepresentativeClayton Yeutter said.    "In my judgement, we're not even close to a trade war,"Yeutter told a House Agriculture Committee hearing.    Yeutter said if Japan takes action to honor its agreementwith the U.S. on semiconductor trade, "Then the retaliatoryresponse will last a relatively short period."    Yeutter said Japan must stop dumping chips in thirdcountries and buy more American computer chips. Reuter
CHIRAC, REAGAN DISCUSS ARMS CONTROL, TRADE French Prime Minister Jacques Chiracopened talks with President Ronald Reagan expected to focus onsuperpower arms control moves and trade issues.    French officials said a major aim of Chirac's visit was topresent France's concern that the United States might ignoreEuropean security interests in any accord with Moscow onremoving medium-range nuclear missiles from the continent.    But Reagan was expected to assure Chirac that he will notagree to a deal at the Geneva superpower talks that would givethe Russians superiority in shorter-range systems, diplomatssaid.    France has expressed doubts about removing U.S. missilesfrom Europe so long as the Soviet Union maintains an edge inother weaponry, particularly shorter-range rockets,conventional forces and chemical weapons.    Speaking last night, Chirac set out the French positionsaying: "Any agreement on intermediate nuclear forces shouldmention how equality can be achieved in short-range missiles."    Reagan and Chirac meanwhile signed an agreement ending adispute between two leading research institutes over patentrights to a blood screening test for the deadly disease AIDS.    In a joint statement, Chirac and Reagan said the PasteurInstitute in Paris and the National Cancer Institute, ofBethesda, Maryland, agreed to give part of the royalties fromthe test to a new foundation dedicated to the wordwide fightagainst AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome).    "This agreement opens a new era in Franco-Americancooperation, allowing France and the United States to jointheir efforts to control this terrible disease in the hopes ofspeeding the development of an AIDS vaccine and cure," Reagansaid at the signing ceremony.     He said the two parties would share the patent and give 80per cent of the royalties received to the new foundation.    The foundation would also raise private funds and woulddonate 25 per cent of its money to combat AIDS in lessdeveloped countries.     Both leaders stressed the long ties between France and theUnited States during a welcoming ceremony in the White HouseEast Room, with Reagan describing France as "America's oldestally in war and peace."     "I have come to tell you that we are remain motivated by thesame ideals of freedom, by the same will to face the dangerswhich we both confront -- terrorism, war, hunger, poverty, newdiseases and drugs," Chirac replied.    But the two countries are likely to have less to agree onover the issue of trade, where Chirac is worried about a risein protectionism in the U.S. Congress.     A senior U.S. official yesterday dismissed a French idea tosell cut-price grain to poor countries in Africa as a way oflessening surplus stocks.    Chirac is expected to canvass support for the idea, firstproposed by French Agriculture Minister Francois Guillaume,during his two-day visit to Washington.    The U.S. official described the idea as a "grain producers'OPEC" -- a reference to the Organization of Petroleum ExportingCountries -- and said it went against the Reaganadministration's desire to lessen government intervention intrade. Reuter
TRADE WAR FEARS MAY PROMPT STOCK MARKETS' DOWNTURN The threatened trade war between theUnited States and Japan is just the kind of shock thateconomists say could send world stock markets into a tailspin.    But they are not so sure if that would be a briefcorrective dip, or whether this week's falling share pricesmark the start of a "bear" market.    "It's the billion dollar question," said Richard O'Brien,economist at American Express International Bank in London.    Japan's trade surplus -- 92.7 billion dlrs last year -- haspoured into share and bond markets around the world, and fundeda good chunk of the huge U.S. Budget deficit. Around a third ofany new sale of U.S. Treasury bonds has been bought by theJapanese. However, Japanese investors have lost money as thedollar falls and will lose more if the United States lets itfall further to cut the trade deficit. The counterpart ofimproving the trade deficit either through a lower dollar orbecause the U.S. Increases duties on Japanese electronic goods,may be to hit the capital inflow which has financed the budgetdeficit.   And if the U.S. Trade deficit does fall, the Japanese willhave less money to invest. To entice U.S. Investors to fill thegap that would be left if the Japanese stopped buying U.S.Bonds, interest rates would have to soar, O'Brien said. Thesubsequent shift from shares to bonds could cause major fallson the world stock markets.    "A year ago, we could be pretty confident about the markets,"said O'Brien. "Now, it is much less certain."    Buoyant share prices are supposed to reflect a boomingeconomy. But the world economy, with sluggish growth at best inthe industrial nations, a massive load of Third World debt andhuge trade imbalances is not in good shape, said O'Brien.    Nevertheless, New York analyst William Raferty, of SmithBarney Harris Upham said  "We're still in a bull market," addingthat corrections are a normal part of a rising market and "Thebear usually strikes slowly."    Economist Evelyn Brody, at Morgan Grenfell and Co inLondon, said the huge sums of money going through the worldfinancial system will keep a floor under share and bond prices.    Although interest by the Japanese in putting their money innon-dollar denominated bonds and stocks has increased it's verydifficult to see where else they can put their money than inU.S. Dollars and especially the U.S. Treasury (bond) market,according to David Butcher, a senior executive at YamaichiSecurities Co Ltd's bond operation in London.    He said the Japanese are paying much closer attention nowto the French franc and West German mark.    In the longer run, he worries about what trade tensions andthe dollar's slide will mean for securities markets. REUTER
WHITE HOUSE DISCOUNTS THREAT OF TRADE WAR President Reagan has reaffirmed hisopposition to protectionism and his chief spokesman said tradesanctions imposed on Japan were unlikely to start a trade war.    "We don't want to go down that road," Reagan was quoted astelling Prime Minister Jacques Chirac after the visiting Frenchofficial expressed concern about the rising tide ofprotectionist sentiment in the United States.    Later, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater defended thenew sanctions against Japan and said administration officials"do not believe this will result in a trade war."    "It is the first time that the United States has taken anaction of this type and it is significant but it is nothing tobe alarmed about," the presidential spokesman added.    "We do not want protectionism ... We do not want a tradewar," he said.    Fitzwater said the president was forced to act in theJapanese microchip case because Tokyo had failed to fulfill "anagreement to make some corrections."    Noting that there are "enormous pressures in the Congressand the land" for the United States to take a tough stand, hesaid, "This was a case where we felt we simply had to act."    Fitzwater said the decision to impose sanctions was "wellconsidered by this administration and not taken lightly."    While the White House official held open the possibilitythat Washington and Tokyo will settle their trade dispute, heindicated a settlement probably would not come in time to headoff the sanctions.    "We are always open to negotations ... Whether it (asettlement) could occur in time to prevent this (the sanctions)from going into effect is questionable at this point," thespokesman said.    The sanctions take effect in mid-April. REUTER
BALDRIGE SAYS U.S. TO GO AHEAD WITH JAPANESE S Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrigesaid the United States would go ahead with planned 300 mln dlrsanctions against Japanese semiconductor exports, despite anyU.S. Japanese talks to avert the trade curbs.    He said in a speech to an export-import group that he wassure the United States and Japan could work out their disputeover unfair Japanese trade practices in semiconductor trade,but "I am sure the sanctions will go in before we work it out."    Sanctions are to be imposed on April 17.    He also said he did not think there would be a trade warwith Japan, because Japan had too much value in exports to theUnited States to risk such a war.    "Those fears are unfounded," he said.    He told reporters later that the sharp drop in thesecurities market was not due to fears of a trade war, but fearof inflation and that the Federal Reserve may act on that fact.    Market reaction was also due, he said, to the drop in thevalue of the dollar, although trade issues did have someeffect.    Baldrige said that observers who were attributing the dropin the market to trade sanctions were "barking up the wrongtree."    He said the market observers will realize this shortly.    Baldrige said his remarks did not mean to suggest anythingabout the market or the exchange rate of the dollar. Reuter
SENIOR U.S. OFFICIAL TO VISIT JAPAN AS TRADE ROW GROWS Undersecretary of State MichaelArmacost will visit Tokyo next week for meetings withhigh-level officials that will include discussions of a growingtrade row over Japanese semiconductor electronics products.    He is the first high-level U.S. official to visit Japansince President Reagan announced last week plans to imposetariffs worth up to 30 mln dls on Japanese electronic goods onApril 17 in retaliation for Tokyo's alleged failure to live upto a pact on microchip trade signed last September.    The trip is set for April 6-8, the state department said.    Reuter
U.S. OFFICIAL TO VISIT JAPAN AS TRADE ROW GROWS Undersecretary of State MichaelArmacost will visit Tokyo next week for meetings withhigh-level officials that will include talks on the growingtrade row over Japanese semiconductor electronics products.    He is the first high-level U.S. official to visit Japansince President Reagan announced last week plans to imposetariffs worth up to 30 mln dlrs on Japanese electronic goods onApril 17 in retaliation for Tokyo's alleged failure to live upto a pact on microchip trade signed last September.    Deputy State Department spokeswoman Phyllis Oakley said thetrip is set for April 6 to 8.    U.S.-Japanese talks of this kind are regularly held eachyear at this time, she told reporters.    The Armacost discussions with Deputy Foreign MinisterRyohei Murata and other senior Japanese officials will focus onU.S.-Japanese foreign aid programs and political securityissues of mutual concern, she added.    "Although an exchange of views on bilateral relations isexpected, the talks are not directly related to U.S.-Japanesetrade relations," she insisted.    But, in response to questions, Oakley acknowledged thattrade will be discussed.   Japan's 58.6 billion dlrs trade surplus with the UnitedStates last year has come under fire in Congress, which isconcerned about the loss of jobs to foreign competition andwith the record 169 billion dlrs U.S. Trade deficit in 1986. Reuter
GETTY PETROLEUM <GTY> YEAR NET Shr 1.54 dlrs vs 1.09 dlrs    Qtly div four cts vs four cts prior    Net 17.1 mln vs 11.5 mln    Revs 953.2 mln vs 1.33 billion    Avg shrs 11.1 mln vs 10.5 mln    NOTE: Cash dividend payable April 21 to holders of recordApril 10. Shr figures adjusted for five pct stock dividenddeclared March 31. Reuter
U.S. OFFICIAL SEES EVIDENCE OF EXPORT GROWTH Beryl Sprinkel, chairman of theWhite House Council of Economic Advisers, said he sees "growingbut incomplete evidence that (U.S.) export volumes are finallystrengthening."    In remarks prepared for a speech today in Los Angeles,Sprinkel said the decline in the dollar's value since 1985 had"largely" restored U.S. cost competitiveness in world markets andappeared to signal an end to U.S. trade imbalances.    "I am confident that further improvements in our tradeperformance will contribute significantly to U.S. growth in1987," he said. Reuter
TAIWAN'S SECOND QUARTER IMPORTS SEEN RISING Taiwan's imports in the second quarter of1987 are expected to rise to 7.75 billion U.S. Dlrs from 5.82billion a year earlier and from 6.95 billion in the firstquarter of this year, the statistics department said.    A department official attributed the increase to growingdomestic investment by the private and public sectors. It isexpected to rise to 4.68 billion U.S. Dlrs from 3.79 billion ayear earlier and 3.41 billion during the first quarter.    Taiwan's exports in the April-June quarter are expected torise to 12.03 billion U.S. Dlrs from 9.63 billion a yearearlier and 11.28 billion in the first quarter.    The official said Taiwan's trade surplus is expected toclimb to 4.28 billion U.S. Dlrs in the second quarter of 1987from 3.81 billion a year earlier. It was 4.33 billion in thefirst quarter of this year.    Most of the surplus is expected to come from trade with theU.S., Taiwan's largest trading partner and importer of nearly50 pct of Taiwan's total exports, he said.    He said he expected Taiwan's imports, including grains,machinery and power plant equipment, from the U.S. To risesharply because of government efforts to balance trade withWashington. He declined to give figures. REUTER
JAPAN DENIES PLANS TO CUT DUTIES ON CHOCOLATE Agriculture Ministry officials said theyare not considering cuts in import duties on chocolate to helpease friction with the United States over agricultural trade.    Japan has already lowered the duties sharply and we mustconsider domestic market conditions, an official said.    Duties on chocolate were cut to 20 pct from 31.9 pct inApril 1983.    Washington has been demanding a cut to seven pct,equivalent to its own duties, ministry sources said.    Japanese chocolate imports rose to 8,285 tonnes in calendar1986 from 5,908 in 1985, official statistics show.    However, the ministry sources added it is possible thegovernment may make further cuts in response to strong U.S. AndEuropean demand.    "Due to concern about the farm trade row with the U.S.,Top-level government officials may press the ministry to cutthe duties," one said.    But he said it would be difficult for Japan to resolve itsoverall trade row with Washington and reduce its trade surplus,which reached 58.6 billion dlrs in 1986.    Agricultural trade issues between Japan and the U.S.Include Japanese import restrictions on 12 farm products. REUTER
JAPAN/U.S. WILL BE AT ODDS WHILE TRADE LOPSIDED Japan is doing all it can to solve itstrade problems with the United States but the two nations willremain at odds as long as the trade account is lopsided inJapan's favour, a senior official said.    "So long as there is an external imbalance there will betrade friction and ...Harsh words between the two governments,"the Foreign Ministry official told reporters.    Last year, Japan racked up a 51.5 billion dlr surplus withthe United States and economists said they do not see itfalling significantly any time soon.    Washington announced plans last week to slap up to 300 mlndlrs in tariffs on Japanese electronic goods, raising thespectre of a trade war between the two countries.    "We take the current situation very seriously," said theofficial, who declined to be identified. "The basic stance ofthe Japanese government is to tackle the issues with allavailable resources."    The United States has accused Japan of reneging on anagreement that called on it to stop selling cut-price computermicrochips in world markets and to try to import more Americansemiconductors. Tokyo has denied the charges.    The Foreign Ministry official refused to rule out Japaneseretaliation if America went ahead with its threatened tariffsin the middle of this month. But he said that any responsewould be in accordance with international law and Japan'sinternational obligations.    He added that both Japan and the United States must takeaccount of the impact of their dispute on their own and theworld economy. REUTER
JAPAN WARNS OF ANTI-U.S. SENTIMENT IN TRADE ROW Japan is sending a three-man team toWashington to try to halt threatened trade sanctions thatofficials warn could spark a wave of anti-U.S. Sentiment here.    The team will lay the groundwork for high-level emergencytalks next week aimed at defusing an increasingly bitter rowover trade in computer microchips, officials said.    "The sanctions are against the free trade system," Ministryof International Trade and Industry (MITI) director generalNoboru Hatakeyama told reporters, adding: "If these measures aretaken, the atmosphere in Japan against the United States wouldbecome not so good as before."    Other officials were more blunt. "The U.S. Action will havea significant impact on the growing anti-U.S. Feeling (here),"another MITI official said.    A senior Foreign Ministry official, who declined to beidentified, told Reuters the U.S. Threats have undercut thosein the government who argue for conciliation.    "There is a very strong argument in Japan that since theUnited States is imposing tariffs unilaterally, why should webother doing anything," he said. "Anything we do, we will bebashed."    The senior official sounded pessimistic about thelikelihood of Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone defusing U.S.Anger over Japanese trade practices when he visits Washingtonon April 29.    "I don't think trade friction will be solved all of a sudden(by the visit)," he said.    Nakasone is widely expected to present a package ofmeasures to President Reagan to help contain U.S. Frustrationover Japan's large trade surplus.    But the senior official played down those expectations. REUTER
JAPAN/U.S. WILL BE AT ODDS WHILE TRADE LOPSIDED Japan is doing all it can to solve itstrade problems with the United States but the two nations willremain at odds as long as the trade account is lopsided inJapan's favour, a senior official said.    "So long as there is an external imbalance there will betrade friction and ...Harsh words between the two governments,"the Foreign Ministry official told reporters.    Last year, Japan racked up a 51.5 billion dlr surplus withthe United States and economists said they do not see itfalling significantly any time soon.    Washington announced plans last week to slap up to 300 mlndlrs in tariffs on Japanese electronic goods, raising thespectre of a trade war between the two countries.    "We take the current situation very seriously," said theofficial, who declined to be identified. "The basic stance ofthe Japanese government is to tackle the issues with allavailable resources."    The United States has accused Japan of reneging on anagreement that called on it to stop selling cut-price computermicrochips in world markets and to try to import more Americansemiconductors. Tokyo has denied the charges.    The Foreign Ministry official refused to rule out Japaneseretaliation if America went ahead with its threatened tariffsin the middle of this month. But he said that any responsewould be in accordance with international law and Japan'sinternational obligations.    He added that both Japan and the United States must takeaccount of the impact of their dispute on their own and theworld economy. REUTER
YEUTTER SAYS U.S. SHOULD STRESS TRADE NEGOTIATIONS AS LONG-TERM U.S. TRAD Holiday Corp said the New JerseyCasino Control Commission has approved its recapitalizationplan, providing the final regulatory approval needed.    The company said it expects to announce next week therecord date for the special 65 dlr per share dividendshareholders will receive under the plan and to pay thedividend during the month of April, with the exact timingdepending on the closing of financing arrangements.    Holiday operates Harrah's Marina Hotel and Casino inAtlantic City, N.J. Reuter
YEUTTER STRESSES IMPORTANCE OF TRADE TALKS U.S. Trade Representative ClaytonYeutter stressed the importance of trade negotiations to openforeign markets rather than trade restrictions in a statementto the Senate Finance Committee.    "In the long term we cannot repeatedly bludgeon othernations into opening their markets with threats of U.S.restrictions. Rather, we must be able to negotiate credibly forglobal liberalization," Yeutter said.    Yeutter did not mention the recent U.S. trade sanctionsagainst Japanese semiconductors in his testimony on the pendingtrade bill.    Yeutter said the trade bill should increase U.S.competitiveness, aid U.S. trade negotiating leverage, and avoidprovoking foreign retaliation.    He urged Congress to reject provisions that would mandateU.S. retaliation against foreign unfair trade practices.    Yeutter emphasized the importance of the new multilateraltrade negotiating round and called on Congress to quicklyapprove an extension of U.S. negotiating authority.    "We want to open foreign markets and establish and enforcerules of international competition, not foster dependence onprotection and subsidies," he said. Reuter
EC MUST EXPLAIN FARM POLICY TO U.S., FRANCE SAYS The U.S. and the European Community couldenter into a new trade dispute unless urgent action is taken toexplain EC farm policy to the U.S. Congress, French officialsources said.    They said Prime Minister Jacques Chirac planned to urge ECCommission president Jacques Delors to send a team of expertsto Washington as soon as possible.    Chirac returned to Paris this morning after three days oftalks in New York and Washington in which trade andprotectionism featured prominently.    At the centre of the new trade tension is an EC Commissionproposal to tax vegetable oils, the sources said. Reuter
EC PUBLISHES LIST OF U.S. BARRIERS TO FREE TRADE The European Community responded towidespread U.S. criticism of its trade policies by publishingan extensive list of U.S. actions which pose obstacles to ECexports.    A spokeswoman for the EC Commission said the detailed25-page report of alleged malpractices was in response to asimilar document issued by U.S. Administration officials inNovember, and updated a previous EC list.    EC External Trade Relations Commissioner Willy De Clercqsaid its object was to show such actions were not solely takenby trading partners of the U.S. And that "the U.S. Were notinnocents in the matter."    The report covers the entire field of EC-U.S. Commercialrelations and lists more than 30 obstacles ranging from tariffmeasures, import quotas, customs duties, anti-dumpingprocedures, fiscal barriers and export subsidies.    The Commission said not all the barriers mentioned werenecessarily inconsistent with U.S. International obligations,and emphasised many of them could be removed at upcominginternational trade talks. "The purpose of the report is to makeclear that trade practices which impede exports are not aunique problem only faced by U.S. Exporters. Europeans facesimilar problems in the U.S.," it said.    Among the obstacles detailed in the report are importrestrictions on food products, such as cheese, sugar and syrup,certain wines, beers and juices, as well as on firearms andmachine tools.    It also criticises programs to boost U.S. Cereals exports.The document said the U.S.'s three-year export enhancementprogram (EEP), which began in 1985, had subsidised exports of9.7 mln tonnes of wheat, two mln tonnes of wheat flour and 2.8mln tonnes of barley up to mid-March this year. The subsidiesgranted so far were worth about 620 mln dlrs, it added.    "The Community has already reacted where necessary to U.S.EEP subsidies by increasing its exports refunds, and willcontinue to do so," it said, adding the current GATT round wouldalso provide an opportunity to address the subject.    The document also says import quotas maintained by the U.S.On a range of farm products, including sugar, peanuts andcertain cottons, restrict EC exports.    In addition, the report deplores a recent U.S.-Japan accordon semi-conductors, export controls on technology transfers,standards tests in the telecommunications arena and the U.S.Administration's "buy American" public procurement policy. Reuter
LYNG SETS TOUGH U.S. STANCE WITH JAPAN ON BEEF U.S. Agriculture Secretary RichardLyng warned Japan that the failure to remove a longstanding import quota on Japanese beef might spark a protectionistresponse in the United States.    "Given the protectionist mood in the Congress and thecountry, if I were a leader in Japan I would certainly be veryconcerned...and the failure to remove it (the beef quota) mightbe very serious," Lyng told a group of U.S cattlemen.    Lyng said he and Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter,during a visit to Japan later this month, will demand "totalelimination" of the beef import quota by April 1988.    The current dispute with Japan over semiconductor maystrengthen the U.S. stance in farm trade negotiations, Lyngsaid, because Japan does not want a trade war with the U.S.    Lyng dismissed recent statements in Tokyo that Japan mightretaliate against U.S. products as a result of thesemiconductor dispute.    "They (Japan) aren't going to pick a fight with us," Lyngsaid, adding that with its huge bilateral trade surplus Japanhas more to lose in a trade war than the United States.    Lyng told the U.S. cattlemen that the quota on Japanesebeef imports does not allow consumers there an adequate choicein food purchases.    He said in addition to beef, the U.S. will press foreliminiation of import barriers on Japan's citrus and rice aswell.    Lyng noted that Japan is the largest buyer of U.S. farmproducts, principally grains and soybeans. Reuter
YEUTTER DOUBTS JAPAN CAN AVOID U.S. SANCTIONS U.S. Trade Representative ClaytonYeutter said he doubted Japan could avoid the April 17imposition of U.S. tariffs on its semiconductor products.    The three high-level Japanese government representativeswho would be coming here in the next few days to discuss theissue would probably be unable to show evidence of continuedcompliance with the semiconductor trade agreement, Yeutter toldreporters.    "It would be impossible to provide evidence of compliancewith the agreement" based on sales of only a few days time, hesaid.    Asked by reporters if the sanctions were 100 pct certainfor April 17, he said, "One could never foreclose all options.We have an obligation to listen to the arguments our tradingpartners make."    He said the length of the sanctions will be determined byJapan and Japanese semiconductor firms.    "They would be lifted only when persuasive evidence provideddemonstrates compliance," he said.    "Whether a few weeks or a few months depends on theiractions," Yeutter added. Reuter
YEUTTER SEES POSSIBLE EUROPEAN, JAPAN RECESSION U.S. Trade Representative ClaytonYeutter said a possible recession in western Europe or Japanwas possible as a result of the U.S. dollar's decline and theresulting drop in the U.S. trade deficit.    Yeutter told the Senate Finance Committee, "They certainlyhave the macroeconomic policy tools to adjust" to the U.S.reduction in imports.    Asked if the U.S. trade deficit was preventing them fromgoing into a recession, Yeutter replied that result was"certainly possible" and was the reason why they should adjusttheir monetary, fiscal and tax policies.    Asked by Sen. Bill Bradley (D-N.J.) whether the U.S. tradedeficit would improve more if the value of the dollar droppedfurther, Yeutter replied, "That should be a mathematical truism."But he added that markets are more complicated than that.    He said he expected the current decline in the dollar toshow up soon in the decline in the value of imports.    He expected the U.S. would soon start importing less fromJapan and Europe and would start exporting more to Europe wherethere's less rigidity on imports. Reuter
SWEDISH PRIME MINISTER'S CHINA VISIT BOOSTS TRADE An big expansion in bilateral trade isexpected as a result of Swedish Prime Minister IngvarCarlsson's visit to China, a official of China's ForeignEconomic Relations and Trade Ministry official said.    He told the China Daily that petroleum, coal, cotton,non-ferrous metals and electric engines could help balance thetrade running at over three-to-one in Sweden's favour.    Total trade reached 290 mln dlrs last year, up 32 pct on1985, according to Chinese statistics. Swedish sources saidmajor paper mill projects and an aviation agreement would bediscussed during Carlsson's one week visit. REUTER
IMF, WORLD BANK TO MEET AMID NEW INFLATION FEARS Amid new concerns about inflation,interest rate increases and trade confrontations,finance ministers and central bankers meet next week to discussa deteriorating global debt and economic situation.    The meetings, under the auspices of the InternationalMonetary Fund and World Bank, come as interest rates areturning higher and the already-weak dollar has sunk further,upsetting bond and stock markets.    Uncertainty is growing about the vitality of the globaleconomy and whether the heavily-indebted countries can continueto carry the burden of their growing debt without vast newassistance.    Monetary and diplomatic sources said there are no signsany new debt initiative of the sort that Treasury SecretaryJames Baker unveiled 18 months ago in Seoul is in the works.    The strategy has drawn a serious challenge from Brazil,which suspended interest payments on 67 billion dlrs ofcommercial bank debt last month. The Banks have responded bylaying the groundwork for writing down Brazilian loans.    Separately, French Prime Minister Jacques Chirac, in avisit earlier this week with President Reagan, sounded out theadministration on a plan to funnel worldwide grain surpluses tothe very poorest states.    The French plan is certain to be discussed by the ministersin detail during next week's meetings and will undoubtedly beembraced by the developing countries.    "There's interest on the part of some countries for lookingat the support of the special problems of the very poorestcountries, because their position is so extreme," a Reaganadministration official said.    He suggested Washington was open to disussing the issue.    The meetings will also assess the success of the Baker debtinitiative, which called for new funding to help debtorcountries grow out of their problems.    The largest industrial countries have been attempting tocoordinate economic policy in the hope of controlling thedecline of the dollar, U.S. trade and budget deficits and otherproblems.    At the same time, the industrial countries see littleevidence of a strengthening of economic activity and the Fundforecasts they will grow 2.5 pct.    The United States sees 3.2 pct growth for itself, continuing its expansion for a fifth year, and has asked otherindustrial countries to stimulate their economies.    These issues directly affect the debt problem and theability of the debtor countries to grow out of theirdifficulties.    In recent years, U.S. markets have absorbed the exports ofdeveloping country, allowing them to earn critical foreignexchange. But the United States wants to cut its trade deficit,running at a record 169.8 billion dlrs, and is pressing othersto import more from developing countries.    The discussions, from April six to 10, will bewide-ranging, touching everything from interest rates to theimpact of development loans on the environment, according tomonetary sources.    The talks will include an examination of tradeprotectionist pressures in the wake of a decision by the Reaganadministration to place some 300 mln dlrs in tariffs onmicrochip products from Japan, the sources said.    The move accelerated the dollar's decline as financialmarkets grew alarmed that trade war was in the offing.    There is concern that the action, prompted by U.S. chargesthat Japan has been selling computer chip products below fairmarket value and has kept its own market closed to imports,further undermining the international trading system.    At the same time, the ministers will discuss thefundamental price weakness in basic commodities, the exportmainstay of many developing countries.    The so-called Group of Five industrial countries -- theUnited States, Japan, West Germany, France and Britain -- willgather for the first time since their February talks in Paris,where they agreed to keep the dollar from sliding further.    The Five will be joined later by Italy and Canada forfurther debate on economic policy coordination.    As part of the Paris accord, surplus countries such asJapan agreed to stimulate their economies, while Americasaid it would reduce its federal budget deficit.    Other major issues of the meetings include a U.S. bid to tohave a larger say in approving loans of the Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank, strengthening the link between loans andeconomic policy changes in debtor nations.    Washington is also pressing the World Bank to take moreaccount of the environment when making loan for dams and otherprojects.    The new head of the Bank, Barber Conable, has said thisissue is being reviewed and will be part of a reorganizationplan for the Bank, now being prepared. Reuter
U.S., JAPANESE OPEN TALKS ON SEMICONDUCTORS U.S. and Japanese officials meettomorrow to try to settle a dispute over semiconductor tradeand to cut short the 300 mln dlr penalty tariffs PresidentReagan has ordered imposed on Japanese exports.    But U.S. officials held out little hope that any accordcould be reached before the tariffs of 100 per cent - up fromabout five per cent - are to take effect on April 17.    The Customs Bureau last week started to levy a bond on theJapanese goods that Reagan ordered penalized. The penaltieswould be retroactive to March 31.    Reagan said on March 27 when ordering the tariffs that hehoped the Japanese would soon end their unfair practices insemiconductor trade and that sanctions could be lifted.    Technical meetings are to be held today and tomorrow, withmeetings at a more senior level scheduled for Thursday andFriday. Public hearings on the sanctions are set for April 13.    The Japanese aides here for the technical talks includeShigeru Muraoka, director-general of international trade policyof the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI), andMasashi Yamamoto, deputy director-general of the informationand machinery bureau.    Meeting with them will Glen Fukushima, director of theJapan office of the U.S. Trade Representative's Office, and JimGradoville, of trade representative's office of industry andservices.    The two sides in the Thursday and Friday talks will beheaded by Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Michael Smith andMITI vice minister Makoto Kuroda.    Reuter
UK MINISTER LOOKS TO EASE TENSION WITH JAPAN The U.K. government hopes for abreakthrough on the deadlock with Japan over trade policiesduring next week's visit to Tokyo by Corporate Affairs MinisterMichael Howard, political sources said.    Howard, who leaves for Japan tomorrow, told Reuters he willtry to promote understanding on trade issues during his visit.    Meanwhile, Britain will re-examine a letter from JapanesePrime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone promising personal help insolving the row over a U.K. firm's bid to win a significantrole in Japan's telecommunications market, government sourcessaid.    Tensions have risen following Britain's decision to armitself early with new statutory powers which it says could beused against certain Japanese financial institutions.    Britain reacted optimistically at first to the letter fromNakasone to Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, seeing it as asignal that he would work towards ensuring a satisfactoryoutcome to the bid launched by Cable and Wireless Plc,government officials said.    But this view has since been clouded by reports from Tokyothat Nakasone's assurances really constituted little more thanpoliteness in the face of British anger, they added. Reuter
CONABLE WARNS PROTECTIONISM MIGHT SPREAD World Bank President Barber Conableexpressed concern that trade protectionism, at the heart of anew showdown between the United States and Japan, might spreadthroughout the industrial world.    But in an interview with Reuters, Conable said the actionby the United States to slap tariffs on certain electronicgoods from Japan did not mean the countries were heading for afull-scale trade war.    Conable said the World Bank has been pressing developingcountries to open their markets, arguing that a free tradingenvironment increased the possibility of global economicgrowth.    "We have, in fact, been making adjustment loans to manycountries in the developing world which have encouraged theopening of their markets and we want to be sure that thedeveloped world doesn't close at the same time," he said.    He said the U.S. action against Japan was "a significantretaliatory step but it did not constitute a basic change intrade policy."    The interview came just before next week's semi-annualmeetings of the Bank and the International Monetary Fund.    Referring to Brazil's recent interest payments moratorium,Conable also said the global debt situation was very seriousand must be closely watched.    He said the Bank, which in the past has concentrated onmaking loans that assist the basic underpinnings in thedeveloping world such as dams, roads and sewers, willincreasingly make assistance available for economic reform.    The Bank has increased these loans, in part because of thedebt crisis that has found countries desperately in need of newfunds for balance of payments adjustment and economic reformsaimed at opening their markets, encouraging foreign investmentand reducing government's role in the economy.    "We're comfortable with adjustment lending, we expect,however, that it will never reach a majority of our portfolio,"Conable said.    He made clear, however, that adjustment lending wouldcontinue to increase as a proportion of overall Bank lendingfor some time.    He noted, "the problem of debt was a severe one and manycountries are asking for adjustment assistance because of theproblem of debt."    Conable, is a a former Republican Congressman from New Yorkchosen by President Reagan for the Bank position last year. Heis an associate of Treasury Secertary James Baker who launchedthe U.S. strategy for shoring up indebted nations in October,1985 which included a call for increased adjustment lending bythe World Bank.    Conable also said that he expected the result of a majorstudy of the Bank's organization to be completed in the nextseveral weeks.    He said the decision to seek a reorganization was based, inpart, on the fact that the Bank had come under fire from thepoorest countries for not doing enough to help and from therichest countries because of inefficiency.    the reorganization is considered a major initiative byConable, and is being closely-watched by the agency's 151member-countries as an indication of his management style andpriorities.    "I want to be sure this institution is viewed by those whomust support it as soundly constituted so that it will bepermitted to grow," Conable said.    However, he said "I don't believe there is anythingbasically wrong with this institution and I don't believe ithas to have any redefinition of its purpose."    He said, however, that it was apparent that the debtinitiative proposed by Baker has given the Bank a central rolein dealing with the debt crisis.    Conable added that cooperation between the Bank and itssister agency, the International Monetary Fund, was good andthat he talked often with IMF Managing Director MichelCamdessus on a variety of issues.    On a personal level, Conable said that he not feel a needto put his personal stamp on the Bank noting that "I don't havea particular mission here except to be useful to theinstitution and to the process of development."    He added, "so I don't feel a great calling to personalizethe institution."    On the development needs of sub-Sahara Africa, Conable saidthat the Bank was constantly reviewing new ways for assistingthe region, noting that half of the recently agreed financingof 12.4 billion dlrs for Bank's International DevelopmentAssociation was earmarked for Africa.    Leading industrial nations are expected to consider newforms of debt relief for the very poorest nations, like thosein the Sub-Sahara, during next week's meetings. Reuter
U.S. TO PRESS FOR FASTER JAPANESE, GERMAN GROWTH The U.S. Administration, underCongressional pressure to cut the trade deficit, will urgeTokyo and Bonn to meet commitments to speed economic growth tostabilise currencies at Wednesday's meetings of leadingindustrial nations in Washington, monetary sources said.    The U.S. Will also try to develop proposals made at the1986 Tokyo Summit for measures to ensure agreements such as theParis Accord are more binding, they said.    Treasury Secretary James Baker's dual initiatives reflectU.S. Frustration with the two countries for not moving fastenough to curb their huge trade surpluses, they added.    Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa is expected tobring the outline of an economic stimulus package to themeeting, which will be attended by West Germany, France,Britain, Italy and Canada as well as the U.S. And Japan, thesources said.    "The sooner the Japanese can announce their intention toannounce a stimulative package,the better it is for Japan andfor the exchange markets in general," one of the sources said.    Treasury Secretary James Baker said the Paris Agreement, inwhich West Germany and Japan made their commitments, will berenewed by the industrial countries this week.    Other U.S. Officials said a meeting of the Group of Sevenwill be a status report on progress Bonn and Tokyo have madesetting up stimulus measures.    The U.S. Will tell its partners that it expects a furthersubstantial budget deficit reduction package to be agreed withCongress this year, the sources said.    Washington would like its economic partners to establishspecific economic policy goals. Sharp deviations from the setobjectives would trigger consultations among the countries onappropriate corrective action, they added.    The Paris accord envisaged surplus countries like Japan andWest Germany stimulating domestic demand to absorb more importsand the U.S. Cutting its budget deficit, thereby depressing itsdemand for imports.    But the markets are signalling the dollar's floor may befar below its level at the time the Paris agreement was struck,the sources said.    Monetary sources also said the dollar's recent sharp fallagainst the yen reflected the U.S.-Japanese dispute oversemi-conductor trade which resulted in U.S. Tariffs on certainJapanese electronic goods.    One of the sources said the dispute has to some extentsoured the atmosphere ahead of the meetings.    Congressional sentiment for protectionist measures, aimedparticularly at Japan, has strengthened, the sources said. REUTER
JAPAN BUSINESS TO URGE GOVERNMENT TO SPUR ECONOMY A top Japanese businessman said thecountry's four largest economic organizations will soon presentto the government a set of proposals to expand domestic demand.    Eishiro Saito, Chairman of the Federation of EconomicOrganizations (Keidanren), told a news conference thegovernment should draw up a package of economic measurestotalling more than 5,000 billion yen.    Saito said the government's package should include plans toremove residual import restrictions on agricultural productsand to lift tariffs on industrial products.    Leading industrialised countries should also step upconcerted market intervention to stabilize exchange rates,Saito said.    The measures will be presented to Prime Minister YasuhiroNakasone as a joint proposal of Keidanren, the Japan Federationof Employers' Association, the Japan Committee for EconomicDevelopment and the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry.    Saito said Japan should stop paying only lip service to itspledges to open its markets.    The proposed measures should be undertaken by increasedfiscal spending, he added. REUTER
TAIWAN TRADE SURPLUS WIDENS IN FIRST QUARTER Taiwan's trade surplus widened to 4.18billion U.S. Dlrs in the first quarter of 1987 from 3.05billion a year ago, the government statistics department said.    First quarter exports rose to 11.25 billion U.S. Dlrs from8.38 billion in the same period in 1986. Imports rose to 7.08billion from 5.33 billion last year.    The March trade surplus was 1.45 billion dlrs compared with1.32 billion in February and 1.02 billion in March 1986.Exports rose to 4.07 billion U.S. Dlrs from 3.85 billion inFebruary and 2.99 billion in March last year. Imports were 2.61billion dlrs against 2.53 billion in February and 1.96 billionin March 1986. REUTER
VOLCKER SAYS EXCHANGE RATE ADJUSTMENT ENOUGH TO NARROW U.S. TRADE THE FOLLOWING RAINFALL WAS RECORDED INTHE 24 HOURS UP TO (1200) GMT TODAY    PARANA STATE: CASCAVEL NIL, PONTA GROSSA 0.2 MILLIMETRES,CAMPO MOURAO NIL, LONDRINA NIL, MARINGA NIL.    RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE: PASSO FUNDO NIL, SANTA MARIA NIL,CRUZ ALTA NIL, SAO LUIZ GONZAGA NIL. REUTER
VOLCKER URGES INDUSTRIAL NATIONS TO KEEP TRADE MARKETS OPEN TO FOSTE Shr primary 58 cts vs 66 cts    Shr diluted 54 cts vs 66 cts    Net 10.1 mln vs 11.4 mln    Revs 266.2 mln vs 194.6 mln    Avg shrs 17.4 mln vs 17.1 mln    Nine mths    Shr primary 1.78 dlrs vs 1.58 dlrs    Shr diluted 1.65 dlrs vs 1.58 dlrs    Net 30.9 mln vs 27.1 mln    Revs 823.8 mln vs 511.0 mln    Avg shrs 17.4 mln vs 17.3 mln    NOTE: prior qtr and nine mths include 3.1 mln dlrs, or 18cts per share, from gain on partial settlement on an insuranceclaim.    nine mths 1987 includes seven cts gain for partialsettlement on an insurance claim.   Results of Flow Control operations have been included sinceits acquisition from ITT Corp on Jan 31 1986.   nine mths prior includes extraordinary gain 2.3 mln dlrs, or14 cts per share, for replacement of a pension plan. Reuter
VOLCKER WARNS AGAINST SIZEABLE DLR DECLINE Federal Reserve Board Chairman PaulVolcker said a further large drop in the value of the dollarcould be counterproductive for world economic growth.    Testifying before the Senate Banking Committee, Volckersaid that Europe and Japan were slowing exports and that growthin those countries was also decreasing.    "In that kind of situation, further sizeable depreciationof the dollar could well be counterproductive," he said.    Domestic expansion in foreign industrial countries has notbeen enough to offset the effects of slower exports, Volckersaid.    On the value of the dollar, Volcker said he could not saywhether it should be higher or lower to restore balance intrade.    "What we do know is that a substantial exchange rateadjustment has already been made," he said.    "That adjustment should be large enough, in a context of agrowing world economy and fiscal restraint in the UnitedStates, to support the widespread expectations of a narrowingin the real trade deficit in the period ahead," he said.    Volcker said U.S. exports were now growing substantiallywhile import growth should slow.    Volcker said that to improve the trade deficit with aminimum of inflationary pressure, the United States would haveto slow its spending growth.    It would also have to achieve a better balance betweeninvestment and domestic savings if it wants to be able todispense with foreign capital.    "The constructive way to work in the needed direction wouldbe to reduce our budget deficit, year by year, paving the wayfor improvements in our trade accounts," he said.    Relying on depreciation of the dollar alone would riskrenewed inflation, he said. Reuter
U.S. CALLS FOR GREATER GATT CHECKS ON TRADE The United States has appealed forstronger powers for the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade(GATT) to enforce world trade rules.    The call by U.S. Deputy Trade Representative Michael Smithat a special committee meeting into the future of GATT followsa series of bilateral trade rows which have clouded efforts bythe 93-nation body to promote fair trade.    Today's meeting was part of the Uruguay trade roundlaunched by ministers last September. The round, which covers13 areas of trade in agriculture, manufactured goods andservices will take four years to negotiate.    Smith called for boosting GATT's links with financialinstitutions such as the International Monetary Fund and WorldBank. He also urged greater involvement of trade ministers toensure the success of the Uruguay Round.    "The GATT as an institution needs to be strengthened toassure that the GATT plays its proper role in management of theworld trading system and the global economy," Smith said.    "Rules can and will be ignored if the institution is weak,or perceived as unable to adapt to the changing world economy."    He also also urged that member states be accountable toeach other for their trade policies.    Smith, who flies to Brussels today for talks with EuropeanCommunity (EC) officials, told Reuters the committee wanted tostress GATT's importance and did not discuss specifics.    "We are interested in more periodic ministerialinvolvement...Whether in formal or informal meetings," he said.    GATT's ruling council is due to hear a complaint from the12-nation EC on April 15 about the U.S.-Japanese accord onsemiconductors. The EC charges the accord breached GATT traderules by allowing Tokyo to set minimum prices for Japanesechips sold in third countries and is requesting a GATT disputepanel be set up to review the agreement.    President Reagan, who strongly supported the Uruguay traderound to promote freer trade, has said Washington will imposetariffs against Japanese electronic goods.    He said Tokyo had not shown willingness to open its marketsto U.S. Exports. REUTER
VOLCKER PUSHES SPENDING CUTS OVER TRADE BILL Federal Reserve Board Chairman PaulVolcker said reducing the federal budget deficit was a moreimportant goal for Congress than drafting trade legislation.    "Reduce the budget deficit," Volcker responded when asked bya member of the Senate Banking Committee about tradelegislation priorities.    "If you don't deal with the budget deficit, everything elseyou do is going to be counterproductive," he said. Reuter
CANADIANS URGE EXEMPTION FROM U.S. TRADE BILL A group of Canadian lawmakers fromOntario today asked their U.S. counterparts to exempt Canadafrom the mandatory trade retaliation provisions in a majortrade bill being considered by the U.S. Congress.    At a meeting of the Northeast-Midwest Coalition, anorganization of U.S. legislators, David Cooke, chairman of theOntario Parliament's Select Committee on Economic Affairs, saidthe exemption would help trade relations.    The trade legislation to be considered by the full House inlate April would require President Reagan to retaliate againstforeign unfair trade practices unless the trade actions wouldharm the U.S. economy.    Currently, Reagan can reject trade sanctions on anygrounds.    Cooke, a member of the Liberal party, told the U.S.congressmen, "I can understand (the trade bill). I think it hasto do with concerns you have with the other parts of the world."    "I would suggest to you that we are your best friends. Youdo not have those concerns with Canada and you should sincerelyconsider exempting our country from that bill," he added.    Canada is the United States' largest trading partner, withtwo-way trade more than 113 billion dlrs in 1985, according tothe coalition. But the U.S. ran up a 23 billion dlr deficit inmanufactured goods that year compared to a 14 billion dlrsurplus in services trade with its neighbour. Reuter
POEHL WARNS AGAINST FURTHER DOLLAR FALL Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehlsaid a weaker dollar would be risky and a further appreciationof the mark would damage prospects for sustained West Germaneconomic growth.    In a speech to the Institute of Contempory German Affairshere, Poehl said "It would be an extremely risky policy to aimfor a further substantial decline in the value of the dollar tocorrect the trade deficit."    He said the United States could face a vicious circle ofdepreciation, inflation and more depreciation if it took thatroute.    Poehl noted West Germany had already taken steps to meetU.S. Demands for greater stimulation of its domestic economy,accelerating tax cuts, cutting interest rates and toleratingabove-target money supply growth.    He said he would have been happy to have brought forwardfive billion marks of tax cuts now planned for January 1988 tothe beginning of this year, but he said the government facedpolitical constraints getting such measures through the upperhouse of the West German parliament.    But there were also limits to the impact West Germany couldaccept on exports from a rising mark, he said.    Poehl said West Germany relied on exports for aboutone-third of its gross national product, so a substantialerosion of export markets could not be offset by increasingdemand at home.    "A further appreciation of the mark could even be anobstacle to further growth," he said.    Poehl said the Bundesbank had tolerated rapid money supplygrowth last year because the country enjoyed low inflation andbecause external factors, including low oil prices andfavourable terms of trade, had given some extra leeway.    But Poehl said West Germany now faced a difficult dilemmaover monetary policy.    The underlying rate of inflation was now two pct, not thereported negative inflation rates last year, and West Germanywas affected more than before by exchange rate developments.    "For the time being, we will have to focus our policy moreon the external side, and we can live with a more expansionarymoney supply. But we must be very careful," he said.    He said he shared some of the U.S. Concern about Japan'strade surpluses, which affected European countries as well asthe United States.    Poehl welcomed the so-called Louvre accord of monetaryofficials of major industrialized countries, saying theimportance of the February 22 agreement to stabilize exchangerates had been underestimated.    All partners had agreed that the dollar was at about theright level, and that further changes would damage growth, hesaid.    "This was a remarkable change in attitude, especially on thepart of our American colleagues," he said.    But he said there was still a danger that the correction ofthe dollar's value could overshoot. REUTER
ASIAN EXPORTERS FEAR DAMAGE FROM U.S.-JAPAN RIFT Mounting trade friction between theU.S. And Japan has raised fears among many of Asia's exportingnations that the row could inflict far-reaching economicdamage, businessmen and officials said.    They told Reuter correspondents in Asian capitals a U.S.Move against Japan might boost protectionist sentiment in theU.S. And lead to curbs on American imports of their products.    But some exporters said that while the conflict would hurtthem in the long-run, in the short-term Tokyo's loss might betheir gain.    The U.S. Has said it will impose 300 mln dlrs of tariffs onimports of Japanese electronics goods on April 17, inretaliation for Japan's alleged failure to stick to a pact notto sell semiconductors on world markets at below cost.    Unofficial Japanese estimates put the impact of the tariffsat 10 billion dlrs and spokesmen for major electronics firmssaid they would virtually halt exports of products hit by thenew taxes.    "We wouldn't be able to do business," said a spokesman forleading Japanese electronics firm Matsushita ElectricIndustrial Co Ltd <MC.T>.    "If the tariffs remain in place for any length of timebeyond a few months it will mean the complete erosion ofexports (of goods subject to tariffs) to the U.S.," said TomMurtha, a stock analyst at the Tokyo office of broker <JamesCapel and Co>.    In Taiwan, businessmen and officials are also worried.    "We are aware of the seriousness of the U.S. Threat againstJapan because it serves as a warning to us," said a seniorTaiwanese trade official who asked not to be named.    Taiwan had a trade trade surplus of 15.6 billion dlrs lastyear, 95 pct of it with the U.S.    The surplus helped swell Taiwan's foreign exchange reservesto 53 billion dlrs, among the world's largest.    "We must quickly open our markets, remove trade barriers andcut import tariffs to allow imports of U.S. Products, if wewant to defuse problems from possible U.S. Retaliation," saidPaul Sheen, chairman of textile exporters <Taiwan Safe Group>.    A senior official of South Korea's trade promotionassociation said the trade dispute between the U.S. And Japanmight also lead to pressure on South Korea, whose chief exportsare similar to those of Japan.    Last year South Korea had a trade surplus of 7.1 billiondlrs with the U.S., Up from 4.9 billion dlrs in 1985.    In Malaysia, trade officers and businessmen said toughcurbs against Japan might allow hard-hit producers ofsemiconductors in third countries to expand their sales to theU.S.    In Hong Kong, where newspapers have alleged Japan has beenselling below-cost semiconductors, some electronicsmanufacturers share that view. But other businessmen said sucha short-term commercial advantage would be outweighed byfurther U.S. Pressure to block imports.    "That is a very short-term view," said Lawrence Mills,director-general of the Federation of Hong Kong Industry.    "If the whole purpose is to prevent imports, one day it willbe extended to other sources. Much more serious for Hong Kongis the disadvantage of action restraining trade," he said.    The U.S. Last year was Hong Kong's biggest export market,accounting for over 30 pct of domestically produced exports.    The Australian government is awaiting the outcome of tradetalks between the U.S. And Japan with interest and concern,Industry Minister John Button said in Canberra last Friday.    "This kind of deterioration in trade relations between twocountries which are major trading partners of ours is a veryserious matter," Button said.    He said Australia's concerns centred on coal and beef,Australia's two largest exports to Japan and also significantU.S. Exports to that country.    Meanwhile U.S.-Japanese diplomatic manoeuvres to solve thetrade stand-off continue.    Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party yesterday outlineda package of economic measures to boost the Japanese economy.    The measures proposed include a large supplementary budgetand record public works spending in the first half of thefinancial year.    They also call for stepped-up spending as an emergencymeasure to stimulate the economy despite Prime MinisterYasuhiro Nakasone's avowed fiscal reform program.    Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Michael Smith and MakotoKuroda, Japan's deputy minister of International Trade andIndustry (MITI), are due to meet in Washington this week in aneffort to end the dispute. REUTER
THAI TRADE DEFICIT WIDENS IN FIRST QUARTER Thailand's trade deficit widened to 4.5billion baht in the first quarter of 1987 from 2.1 billion ayear ago, the Business Economics Department said.    It said Janunary/March imports rose to 65.1 billion bahtfrom 58.7 billion. Thailand's improved business climate thisyear resulted in a 27 pct increase in imports of raw materialsand semi-finished products.    The country's oil import bill, however, fell 23 pct in thefirst quarter due to lower oil prices.    The department said first quarter exports expanded to 60.6billion baht from 56.6 billion.    Export growth was smaller than expected due to lowerearnings from many key commodities including rice whoseearnings declined 18 pct, maize 66 pct, sugar 45 pct, tin 26pct and canned pineapples seven pct.    Products registering high export growth were jewellery up64 pct, clothing 57 pct and rubber 35 pct. REUTER
JAPAN MINISTRY SAYS OPEN FARM TRADE WOULD HIT U.S. Japan's Agriculture Ministry, angered byU.S. Demands that Japan open its farm products market, willtell U.S. Officials at talks later this month thatliberalisation would harm existing U.S. Farm exports to Japan,a senior ministry official said.    "Imports from the U.S. Would drop due to active sales drivesby other suppliers," the official, who declined to be named,said. "Japan is the largest customer for U.S. Farm products andit is not reasonable for the U.S. To demand Japan liberaliseits farm import market," he said.    Agriculture Minister Mutsuki Kato has said if the U.S.Insists Japan open its protected rice market it will also openits wheat market, where volume and origin are regulated toprotect local farmers.    Australia and Canada could then increase their wheatexports as they are more competitive than the U.S., He said.End-users would also buy other origins, grain traders said.    U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng, who is due tovisit Japan for talks between April 16-27, has said he will askJapan to offer a share of its rice market to U.S. Suppliers andremove quotas on U.S. Beef and citrus imports.    Other countries are already cutting into the U.S. Marketshare here. Australia, the largest beef supplier to Japan, hasbeen trying to boost exports prior to the expiry of a four-yearbeef accord next March 31.    Imports of U.S. Corn have fallen due to increased salesfrom China and South America, while Japanese soybean importsfrom Brazil are expected to rise sharply this year, althoughthe U.S. Will remain the largest supplier.    U.S. Feedgrain sales will also drop if Japan opens up itsbeef imports, since Japan depends almost entirely on feedgrainimports, mainly from the U.S., Japanese officials said.    An indication of the U.S. Position came last December whenUnder Secretary of Agriculture Daniel Amstutz said Japan hasthe potential to provide one of the largest boosts to U.S.Agricultural exports, with the beef market alone representingsome one billion dlrs in new business.    The U.S. Has also asked the General Agreement on Tariffsand Trade to investigate the legality of Japanese importcontrols on 12 other farm products, including fruit juices,purees and pulp, tomato juice, ketchup and sauce, peanuts,prepared beef products and miscellaneous beans.    To help calm heated trade relations with the U.S., Japan'stop business group Keidanren has urged the government to removeresidual import restrictions on agricultural products.    But Agriculture Minister Kato has ruled out any emotionalreaction, and the senior ministry official said the farm issueshould not become a scapegoat for trade pressure in theindustrial sector.    "Japan is the largest buyer of U.S. Farm products, and theseissues should not be discussed on the same table," the officialsaid. REUTER
SOUTH KOREA MOVES TO SLOW GROWTH OF TRADE SURPLUS South Korea's trade surplus is growing toofast and the government has started taking steps to slow itdown, Deputy Prime Minister Kim Mahn-je said.    He told a press conference the government planned toincrease investment, speed up the opening of the local marketto foreign imports and gradually adjust its currency to holdthe surplus "at a proper level."    But he said the government would not allow the won toappreciate too much in a short period of time. South Korea hasbeen under pressure from Washington to revalue the won.    The U.S. Wants South Korea to cut its trade surplus withthe U.S., Which rose to 7.4 billion dlrs in 1986 from 4.3billion dlrs in 1985.    Kim, who is also economic planning minister, said prospectswere bright for the South Korean economy, but the governmentwould try to hold the current account surplus to around fivebillion dlrs a year for the next five years.    "Our government projections of eight pct GNP growth, fivebillion dlrs of (current account) surplus and 12 pct growth inexports all seemed to be reasonable early this year. But nowthe surplus is growing faster than we expected," he said.    Trade ministry officials said South Korea's exports rose 35pct to 9.34 billion dlrs in the first three months of thisyear, while imports rose only 8.5 pct to 8.2 billion dlrs.    Kim said the swing of South Korea's current account to asurplus of 4.65 billion dlrs in 1986 from an 890 mln dlrdeficit in 1985 was very significant. The surplus enabled thecountry to reduce its foreign debt last year for the firsttime.    South Korea's foreign debt, which fell to 44.5 billion dlrsin 1986 from 46.8 billion in 1985, is still among the largestin Asia.    "This huge amount of our foreign debt has been one of themajor constraints on our development... Last year was a majorturning point for the Korean economy," Kim said.    Kim said his government plannned to reduce the ratio offoreign debt to the country's GNP to about 20 pct in 1991, fromabout 50 pct in 1986.    "The government, however, does not want to acceleratereducing the debt by making an excessive trade surplus," hesaid.    Kim said a sudden rise in the surplus would cause inflationand lead to trade friction with Seoul's major trading partners,particularly the United States.    "We need a surplus because we have to reduce our debt, butwe are taking measures to hold the size of the surplus at aproper level," Kim said. REUTER
JAPAN GIVEN LITTLE HOPE OF AVOIDING U.S. SANCTIONS A top U.S. Official said Japan has littlechance of convincing the U.S. To drop threatened tradesanctions, despite the efforts of a Japanese team that left forWashington today.    Michael Armacost, Under Secretary of State for PoliticalAffairs, was asked at a press conference whether Japan's movesto boost its domestic economy and open its markets couldpersuade the U.S. Not to impose tariffs on Japanese importssaid, and replied: "...It is probably too early for the figuresto demonstrate that the situation has turned around and topermit the result you have described."    Armacost said the U.S. Hopes Japan will take steps to liftits domestic economy and reduce dependence on exports, removebarriers to imports and settle outstanding trade issues.    "There are obvious problems at the moment in the trade area,but we do not wish those problems to divert attention fromimportant areas of cooperation that continue to exist onsecurity and political issues," he said.    "The question is whether through cooperative actions betweenour governments we can reduce the (trade) imbalance or whetherCongress takes action to reduce it through protectionistlegislation," he said. REUTER
JAPANESE OFFICIAL TAKES DATA TO MICROCHIP TALKS Ministry of International Trade andIndustry (MITI) Vice Minister Makoto Kuroda leaves forWashington today with data he hopes will refute U.S. ChargesJapan has violated a pact on microchip trade.    A three-man Japanese trade team is already in Washingtonlaying the groundwork for talks between Kuroda and Deputy U.S.Trade Representative Michael Smith aimed at persuading the U.S.Not to impose tariffs on certain Japanese products.    But Kuroda said he is taking no new proposals. "I havenothing in my briefcase except an explanation of the currentsituation," Kuroda told the daily newspaper Asahi Shimbun.    Kuroda said the U.S. Decision was based on incorrect dataand an exaggerated sense of MITI's power to control marketforces. "The U.S. Has excessive expectations. To stabilisesupply-demand relations which have been disrupted by excessinventories since 1985 will take some time," he said.    Kuroda also laid part of the blame for low U.S. Chip salesin Japan on a lack of effort by American firms here.    He said if he fails in talks tomorrow and Friday toforestall sanctions, he will seek further talks with U.S. TradeRepresentative Clayton Yeutter. U.S. Officials said this week'stalks are unlikely to delay imposition of tariffs. REUTER
JAPAN GIVEN LITTLE HOPE OF AVOIDING U.S. SANCTIONS A top U.S. Official said Japan has littlechance of persuading the U.S. to drop threatened tradesanctions, despite the efforts of a Japanese team that left forWashington today.    Michael Armacost, Under Secretary of State for PoliticalAffairs, was asked at a press conference whether Japan's movesto boost its domestic economy and open its markets couldpersuade the U.S. Not to impose tariffs on Japanese importssaid, and replied: "...It is probably too early for the figuresto demonstrate that the situation has turned around and topermit the result you have described."    Armacost said the U.S. Hopes Japan will take steps to liftits domestic economy and reduce dependence on exports, removebarriers to imports and settle outstanding trade issues.    "There are obvious problems at the moment in the trade area,but we do not wish those problems to divert attention fromimportant areas of cooperation that continue to exist onsecurity and political issues," he said.    "The question is whether through cooperative actions betweenour governments we can reduce the (trade) imbalance or whetherCongress takes action to reduce it through protectionistlegislation," he said. REUTER
JAPAN IN LAST-DITCH EFFORT TO AVERT TARIFFS Senior Japanese officials tomorrowopen talks with American trade negotiators in a last-ditcheffort to avert new high U.S. tariffs to be imposed on a widevariety of Japanese electronic exports.    Makoto Kuroda, vice minister of Japan's Ministry ofInternational Trade and Industry (MITI), is to hold two days ofmeetings with the Deputy U.S. Trade Representative, MichaelSmith, and the Under Secretary of Commerce, Bruce Smart.    The new tariffs, to go into effect on April 17, are inretaliation for Japan's failure to adhere to an agreement toend dumping semiconductors in world markets at below cost andto open its home market to U.S. semiconductor shipments.    They are to be imposed on goods which use semiconductors,including television and audio equipment and computers.    Both U.S. and Japanese officials have said there was littlelikelihood the talks would do anything to avert the 100 pctduties on 300 mln dlrs worth of Japanese shipments.    President Reagan announced the planned tariffs on March 27after he said that close monitoring of the July 1986U.S.-Japanese semiconductor pact convinced U.S. officials thatJapan was not honoring the agreement.    In making the annoucement, Reagan said "I am committed tothe full enforcement of our trade agreements designed toprovide American industry with free and fair trade."    Trade analysts said his move was aimed as much at Japan'ssemiconductor trade practices, which are said to have injuredthe U.S. semiconductor industry, as Congress, which hascomplained about presidential timidity on trade issues.    Congressional Democrats have pledged to enact aggressivetrade laws to counter what they contend has been Reagan'sinaction to redress the growing U.S. trade deficit, which lastyear reached 169.8 billion dlrs.    About one-third of the deficit was with Japan.    Reagan said there were recent signs Japan was beginning toadhere to the pact and that was why he was not terminating it.    Kuroda said on leaving Tokyo today he had no new proposalsbut did have an explanation of the semiconductor situation.    He told the daily newspaper Ashai Shimbun that Reagan'sdecision was based on inaccurate data and an exaggerated senseof MITI's power to control Japanese traders.    "The United States has excessive expectations.," he said. Tostabilize supply-demand relations which have been disrupted byexcess inventories since 1985 will take some time."    He also said that U.S. firms had not been aggressive enoughin trying to sell in the Japanese market. Reuter
WHITE HOUSE STANDING FIRM ON JAPANESE SANCTIONS Presidential spokesman MarlinFitzwater said U.S. trade sanctions against Japan were likelytake effect on April 17 in spite of a "full court press" byJapanese officials to avoid them.    "All indications are they will take effect," he said.    "I would say Japan is applying the full court press ... Theycertainly are putting both feet forward in terms of explainingtheir position," Fitzwater told reporters.    He noted high level meetings on the trade dispute areunderway here but said, "I don't think there's anything I canreport and I don't believe there's been any official movement." REUTER
CANADA PLANS TO MONITOR STEEL IMPORTS, EXPORTS, TRADE MINIS General Electric Corp said itsfirst quarter results were significantly higher due to thestrong results of RCA, which was acquired last year.    General Electric also attibuted continued strongperformances in plastics, major appliances and the EmployersReinsurance Corp for its strong quarter.    GE recorded net earnings for the first quarter 1987 of 624mln dlrs, or 1.37 dls per shr, up 16 pct from 537 mln dlrs, or1.18 dlrs per share for the same quarter a year ago.    General Electric chairman John Welch Jr reiterated thecompany's outlook for 1987 in which it expects double-digit GEearnings growth for the year. He said the first quarter resultsare in line with those expectations.    General Electric cited the strong results in TV network andstation operations of the National Broadcasting Co, which wasnot part of GE in the first quarter of 1986, as one reason forits strong earnings.    It also noted that aircraft engine operating profit wasmuch higher than a year ago, caused by a increase in shipmentsthan the 1986 quarter, which was impacted by a strike.    Aerospace revenues were sharply higher in this year's firstquarter from a year ago, mainly because of the inclusion ofRCA's aerospace and defense business, the company said.    In addition, consumer products revenues were up from lastyear, mainly because of including sales of RCA video products.    General Electric said restructuring provisions of 308 mlndlrs before taxes to implement various strategic moves werecharged against operations in the first quarter of 1987. Itadded that there was a one-time gain of 281 mlns dlrs aftertaxes from an inventory accounting change.    And technical products revenues and operating profit wereahead of last year, led by a strong increases in medicalsystems volume and the inclusion this year of RCA'scommunications and related services. Reuter
CANADA TO MONITOR STEEL IMPORTS, EXPORTS Canada plans to monitor steel shipmentsflowing in and out of the country in an attempt to appeaseconcerns in the U.S. over the high level of Canadian steelexports, Trade Minister Pat Carney said.    "To help maintain our open access to the U.S. steel market,the government is taking further action to ensure we have moreaccurate data on exports and imports and that Canada is notused as a backdoor to the U.S. market by offshore suppliers,"Carney said.    Carney also said Canadian companies were being asked toexercise prudence in the U.S. market and both countries wereconsidering establishing a joint commission to study thegrowing steel problem.    Carney told the House of Commons she will soon announce anamendment to the Exports and Imports Permits Act to set up themonitoring program.    Canadian steel shipments to the U.S. have risen to 5.7 pctcent of the U.S. market in recent months, almost double thelevel just two years ago, Canadian trade officials said.    The increase in Canadian shipments comes at a time ofgrowing anger in the U.S. over rising steel imports fromseveral countries in the face of a decline in the domesticsteel industry.    Some U.S. lawmakers have proposed Canada's share of theAmerican market be limited to 2.4 pct. Reuter
DEFICIT CUTS SEEN UNABLE TO CURE TRADE DEFICIT Financial analysts say they arepleased with congressional moves to trim next year's federalbudget deficit but believe the actions will do little to helpimprove the U.S. trade deficit or buoy the economy.    The House of Representatives is expected to vote tomorrowto approve a trillion-dollar budget blueprint for the comingfiscal year that reduces the deficit by 38 billion dlrs.    Similarly, the Senate Budget Committee has approved a planthat would cut federal red ink by about 37 billion dlrs nextyear.        "In terms of the economy, 37-38 billion dlrs isinfinitesimal, so cuts of this magnitude will have littleimpact on the economy and the trade deficit," said StanleyCollander, a Touche Ross federal budget policy analyst.    "At best, it will have a small positive effect," Collandersaid in an interview.    Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker has repeatedlytold Congress that cutting federal red ink would go a long wayto help reduce the massive trade deficit and also help easesome of the downward pressure on the value of the dollar.    The U.S. government has attempted to remedy the tradeimbalance by driving down the value of the dollar. But Volckerhas warned that a further fall in the dollar's value is fraughtwith danger.    Such a decline, he has said, could refuel inflation asimported goods become more expensive and chase away foreigncapital needed to finance the federal budget deficit.    In addition, in February, U.S. officials meeting with othermajor industrialized nations in Paris agreed that the value ofthe dollar had dropped enough and that world exchange ratesshould be stabilized at around current levels.    As part of that agreement, Japan and West Germany agreed totake steps to stimulate their economies and the United Statesagreed to cut its budget deficit.    The alternative to driving down the dollar any further as away to deal with the trade deficit, Volcker said recently, isto reduce U.S. consumption, particularly federal spending.    "If you don't deal with the budget deficit, everything elseyou do is going to be counterproductive," Volcker said in recenttestimony before the Senate Banking Committee.    Volcker also said he would prefer to further tighten thegovernment's purse strings than have the Fed tighten the creditsupply if action was needed to fight inflationary pressures orto assure the continued flow of foreign capital into the UnitedStates.    Analysts say that Fed tightening now could choke off thecurrent modest economic expansion and threaten a recession.    Kemper Financial Services economist John Silvia stressedthat any deficit reduction was better than none.    But he said the size of the cuts under consideration were not enough to give the Federal Reserve Board the flexibility itneeds to steer the economy or to keep the value of the dollarfrom plunging further in world exchange markets.    "There's no doubt that some deficit reduction helps, but ifyour objective is to stabilize the dollar and perserve theFed's flexibility to conduct monetary policy, then the answeris, it's not enough," Silvia told Reuters.    The U.S. trade deficit has become one of the government'smost vexing and persistent problems.    The 1986 deficit was 169.8 billion dlrs and there is as yetlittle indication that this year's figure will be any lower,though administration officials have predicted it will drop byabout 20 to 30 billion dlrs by year's end.    In the past, Volcker has joked that he never lost sleepworrying whether Congress would cut too much fat from thefederal budget.    On the other hand, he also has made it clear he is notattached to the gradually declining deficit ceilings set forthe 1986-1991 period by last year's Gramm-Rudman balancedbudget law.    While the new law set a ceiling of 108 billion dlrs fornext year's federal deficit, both the House and Senate BudgetCommittees have conceded that their budget plans would fallshort of the deficit reduction goal by about 25 billion dlrs.    "For political reasons, 35 to 40 billion dlrs is about themost you're going to get" out of Congress at the present time,said Touche Ross's Collander. "To do something more than thatwould be extraordinary, remarkable and very, very difficult."    Collander said the real danger for Congress was to end upshort of the deficit reduction goal set by its Budget panels.    "To an extent, this has become the minimum acceptablereduction level," he explained. "Anything less than that will nowlook like a failure to Wall Street."    The budget plan now under debate on the House floor wouldlower an estimated 171 billion dlr deficit for the yearbeginning on October one to about 133 billion dlrs by cuttingdefense and domestic programs by 38 billion dlrs from theiranticipated spending levels for next year.    The Senate Budget Committee has called for a deficit ofnearly 134 billion dlrs with about 18.5 billion dlrs in new taxes and about the same amount in spending cuts. Reuter
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - TELECOM IS KEY JAPAN MINISTRY Japan's little-known Ministry of Posts andTelecommunications (MPT) has emerged as an international forceto be reckoned with, political analysts said.    MPT, thrust into the spotlight by trade rows with the U.S.And Britain, is in a position of strength due to its control ofa lucrative industry and its ties with important politicians,they said.    "The ministry is standing athwart the regulatory control ofa key industrial sector, telecommunications and information,"said one diplomatic source.    "They are a potent political force," the diplomatic sourcesaid.    But MPT is finding domestic political prowess does notalways help when it comes to trade friction diplomacy, analystssaid.    "The ministry was a minor ministry and its people were notso internationalized," said Waseda University professor MitsuruUchida. "Suddenly they're standing at the centre of the worldcommunity and in that sense, they're at a loss (as to) how toface the situation."    Most recently the ministry has been embroiled in a row withLondon over efforts by Britain's Cable and Wireless Plc to keepa major stake in one of two consortia trying to compete inJapan's lucrative overseas telephone business.    The ministry has favoured the merger of the two rivalgroups, arguing the market cannot support more than onecompetitor to Kokusai Denshin Denwa Co Ltd, which nowmonopolizes the business.    It has also opposed a major management role in the plannedmerger for any non-Japanese overseas telecommunications firm onthe grounds that no such international precedent exists.    The ministry's stance has outraged both London, which hasthreatened to retaliate, and Washington, which says the mergerplan is evidence of Japan's failure to honour pledges to openits telecommunications market.    Washington is also angry over other ministry moves which itsays have limited access for U.S. Firms to Japan's cartelephone and satellite communications market.    Much of MPT's new prominence stems from the growth of thesector it regulates.    "What has been happening is an important shift in theeconomy which makes the ministry a very important place," saidJames Abegglen, head of the consulting firm Asia AdvisoryService Inc.    A decision to open the telecommunications industry tocompetition under a new set of laws passed in 1985 has boostedrather than lessened MPT's authority, analysts said.    "With the legal framework eased, they became the de factolegal framework," said Bache Securities (Japan) analyst DarrellWhitten.    Close links with the powerful political faction of theruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) nurtured by former PrimeMinister Kakuei Tanaka are another key to MPT's influence, theanalysts said.    "Other factions ignored MPT (in the 1970s), but the Tanakafaction was forward looking and ... Recognized the importanceof MPT," Uchida said. Many former bureaucrats became members ofthe influential political group, he added.    The ministry also has power in the financial sector due tothe more than 100,000 billion yen worth of deposits in thePostal Savings System, analysts said.    MPT has helped block Finance Ministry plans to deregulateinterest rates on small deposits, a key element in financialliberalisation, since the change would remove the PostalSavings System's ability to offer slightly higher rates thanbanks, they said.    Diplomatic sources, frustrated with what they see as MPT'sobstructionist and protectionist posture, have characterizedthe ministry as feudal.    Critics charge MPT with protecting its own turf, limitingcompetition and sheltering the former monopolies under itswing. Providing consumers with the best service at the lowestprice takes a back seat to such considerations, they said.    But many of the ministry's actions are not unlike those ofits bureaucratic counterparts in much of the Western worldincluding Britain, several analysts said.    "The United States is really the odd man out," Abegglen said."For a government to take the view that it wants to keep orderin utilities markets is not an unusual and/or unreasonableview," he said. REUTER
G-7 ISSUES STATEMENT AFTER MEETING Following is the text of a statementby the Group of Seven -- the U.S., Japan, West Germany, France,Britain, Italy and Canada -- issued after a Washington meetingyesterday.    1. The finance ministers and central bank governors ofseven major industrial countries met today.    They continued the process of multilateral surveillance oftheir economies pursuant to the arrangements for strengthenedeconomic policy coordination agreed at the 1986 Tokyo summit oftheir heads of state or government.    The managing director of the International Monetary Fundalso participated in the meeting.    2. The ministers and governors reaffirmed the commitment tothe cooperative approach agreed at the recent Paris meeting,and noted the progress achieved in implementing theundertakings embodied in the Louvre Agreement.    They agreed, however, that further actions will beessential to resist rising protectionist pressures, sustainglobal economic expansion, and reduce trade imbalances.    In this connection they welcomed the proposals justannounced by the governing Liberal Democratic Party in Japanfor extraordinary and urgent measures to stimulate Japan'seconomy through early implementation of a large supplementarybudget exceeding those of previous years, as well asunprecedented front-end loading of public works expenditures.    The government of Japan reaffirmed its intention to furtheropen up its domestic markets to foreign goods and services.    3. The ministers and governors reaffirmed the view thataround current levels their currencies are within rangesbroadly consistent with economic fundamentals and the basicpolicy intentions outlined at the Louvre meeting.    In that connection they welcomed the strong implementationof the Louvre Agreement.    They concluded that present and prospective progress inimplementing the policy undertakings at the Louvre and in thisstatement provided a basis for continuing close cooperation tofoster the stability of exchange rates. REUTER
SOVIET TRADE DEFICIT WITH WEST SOARS IN 1986 The Soviet trade deficit with the Westalmost quadrupled last year, reaching 2.72 billion roublescompared with 713 mln in 1985, official figures showed.    Statistics published by the monthly journal Foreign Tradeshowed Soviet trade turnover for 1986 fell to 130.9 billionroubles from 142.1 billion the previous year, a drop of 7.8pct.    Moscow's trade surplus with East Bloc countries continuedto grow in 1986.    Western analysts attributed the deficit rise with the Westto the world oil price slump, which hit Moscow's main exportand cut hard currency earnings needed for purchases in theWest. REUTER
CANADA FEBRUARY TRADE SURPLUS 1.25 BILLION DL Net profit 327.1 mln guilders vs307.5.    Total revenue 7.97 billion guilders vs 8.7 billion.    Net profit per five guilder nominal share 9.33 guilder vs9.25 (corrected for capital increase).    Final dividend 1.30 guilders and 2.4 pct stock vs 1.30guilders and 2.2 pct in stock. Interim dividend already paidwas 1.30 guilders.    Note : full name of company is AEGON NV <AEGN.AS>    REUTER
CANADA FEBRUARY TRADE SURPLUS 1.2 BILLION DLRS Canada had a trade surplus of 1.25billion dlrs in February compared with an upward revised 623mln dlrs surplus in January, Statistics Canada said.    The January surplus originally was reported at 533 mlndlrs. The February surplus last year was 189 mln dlrs.    February exports, seasonally adjusted, were 10.44 billiondlrs against 9.85 billion in January and 10.05 billion inFebruary, 1986.    February imports were 9.19 billion dlrs against 9.23billion in January and 9.86 billion in February, 1986. Reuter
EC LAUNCHES ANTI-DUMPING PROBE ON JAPANESE CHIPS The European Community launched aninvestigation into allegations of dumping by Japanesesemiconductor makers in a move which diplomats said could markan intensification of world trade strains.    Tokyo already faces a deadline of April 17 from Washingtonfor the imposition of 300 mln dlrs worth of tariffs on chips itimports into the U.S.    The EC Executive Commission said today the EuropeanElectrical Component Manufacturers Association complained thatJapanese firms were selling high capacity EPROM type (erasableprogrammable read only memory) chips at unfairly low prices.    Japan last year took 78 pct of the 170 mln dlr EC EPROMmarket, up from 60 pct in 1984. The EC firms said they had beenforced to offer their products at a discount of up to 30 pct inorder to compete with the Japanese.    The Commission said it believed the Association had givensufficient elements of proof for dumping to warrant aninvestigation, which could lead it to impose duties if it foundthe complaints were justified.    The Commission claims last year's accord between the U.S.And Japan on microchip pricing gives U.S. Firms privilegedaccess to the Japanese market. REUTER
G-7 ISSUES STATEMENT AFTER MEETING Following is the text of a statementby the Group of Seven -- the U.S., Japan, West Germany, France,Britain, Italy and Canada -- issued after a Washington meetingyesterday.    1. The finance ministers and central bank governors ofseven major industrial countries met today.    They continued the process of multilateral surveillance oftheir economies pursuant to the arrangements for strengthenedeconomic policy coordination agreed at the 1986 Tokyo summit oftheir heads of state or government.    The managing director of the International Monetary Fundalso participated in the meeting.    2. The ministers and governors reaffirmed the commitment tothe cooperative approach agreed at the recent Paris meeting,and noted the progress achieved in implementing theundertakings embodied in the Louvre Agreement.    They agreed, however, that further actions will beessential to resist rising protectionist pressures, sustainglobal economic expansion, and reduce trade imbalances.    In this connection they welcomed the proposals justannounced by the governing Liberal Democratic Party in Japanfor extraordinary and urgent measures to stimulate Japan'seconomy through early implementation of a large supplementarybudget exceeding those of previous years, as well asunprecedented front-end loading of public works expenditures.    The government of Japan reaffirmed its intention to furtheropen up its domestic markets to foreign goods and services.    3. The ministers and governors reaffirmed the view thataround current levels their currencies are within rangesbroadly consistent with economic fundamentals and the basicpolicy intentions outlined at the Louvre meeting.    In that connection they welcomed the strong implementationof the Louvre Agreement.    They concluded that present and prospective progress inimplementing the policy undertakings at the Louvre and in thisstatement provided a basis for continuing close cooperation tofoster the stability of exchange rates. REUTER
SPANISH EMPLOYERS WORRIED BY HIGH INTEREST RATES The head of Spain's employers'federation, Jose Maria Cuevas, said employers were worriedabout the government's monetary policies because high realinterest rates were hampering investment.    He told a news conference wage pacts signed so far thisyear were not endangering the government's five pct inflationtarget. The government's perceived need to control inflation bykeeping a tight rein on credit was unnecessary, he said.    High real interest rates were attracting an influx ofspeculative foreign capital which was undercutting thegovernment's target for monetary growth, Cuevas said.    Spain's most closely-watched measure of money supply,liquid assets in public hands, grew at an annualised rate of 17pct in March, against 11.4 pct in December last year and atarget range of 6.5 to 9.5 pct for 1987.    To combat this, the Bank of Spain has raised its call moneyrate 14 times so far this year, to 14.5 pct at present from11.8 at end-1986.    Cuevas said employers were heeding the government's call tohold wage increases to its five pct inflation target this year,with increases from salary reviews awarded last year and newwage pacts averaging 5.6 pct in the first quarter of 1987.    These agreements covered less than 40 pct of Spanishworkers, Cuevas said, with the rest still in wage negotiations.    He said Spain's current wave of strikes mainly affected thestate sector, where the government is trying to impose its fivepct wage ceiling.    Cuevas said employers were also worried about the trend inSpain's foreign trade balance. The trade deficit in the firsttwo months of 1987 totalled 233 billion pesetas, a 68 pctincrease over the corresponding period last year.    However, employers did not favour a devaluation of thepeseta to correct the imbalance. REUTER
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS TRADE, CURRENT ACCOUNT IMBALANCES "SIMPLY NOT SUST Iran said it launched a fresh offensivetoday north of Baghdad, three days after it began a new thrustagainst Iraq on the southern Gulf war front.    The Iranian news agency IRNA, received in London, said theoffensive began before dawn northeast of Qasr-e-Shirin, on theborder 110 miles northeast of the Iraqi capital.    "Heavy casualties and losses have been inflicted on Iraqiforces in the fresh Iranian assault," IRNA said.    Iran today reported major gains on the southern front nearthe major Iraqi port city of Basra, saying its forces hadcaptured an important defensive line. REUTER
SPRINKEL SAYS TAX HIKE WOULD NOT REDUCE DEFICIT Council of Economic Advisers chairmanBeryl Sprinkel said the Reagan Administration remains stronglyopposed to a tax increase, including 18 billion dlrs of newrevenues in the budget plan by Congressional Democrats.    "We believe that significant increases in taxes would notreduce deficits and could have adverse effects on growth,"Sprinkel told the House Rules Committee.    He said the Administration wanted to continue its policy ofgradually reducing deficits through restraining governmentspending and promoting economic growth. Sprinkel said cuttingthe budget deficit was the best way to lower the trade deficit. Reuter
COLOMBIA JAN EXPORTS UP BUT COFFEE VALUES FALL The value of colombian exports other thancoffee rose 55 pct in january compared with the same periodlast year, apparently setting a trend for the trade balance in1987, government statistics institute figures show.    They amounted to 180.8 mln dlrs fob compared with 147.5 mlndlrs for coffee, a drop of 42 pct from last year.    The trade balance registered a 35 mln dlr surplus, comparedwith a 56 mln dlr surplus in january 1986.    The national planning department forecast that in 1987coffee, colombia's traditional major export, will account foronly one-third of total exports, or about 1.5 billion dlrs. Reuter
EXPORTS OTHER THAN COFFEE RISE SHARPLY IN COLOMBIA Colombian exports other than coffee rose55 pct in January compared with the same period last year,figures from the government statistics institute show.    Non-coffee exports amounted to 180.8 mln dlrs fob comparedwith 147.5 mln dlrs for coffee, a drop of 42 pct from lastyear.    The trade balance registered a 35 mln dlr surplus, comparedwith a 56 mln dlr surplus in January 1986.    The national planning department forecast that in 1987coffee, Colombia's traditional major export, will account foronly one third of total exports, or about 1.5 billion dlrs. REUTER
CHILEAN TRADE SURPLUS NARROWS SLIGHTLY IN FEBRUARY chile's trade surplus narrowed to 102.2mln dlrs in february, from 105.4 mln dlrs in the same monthlast year, but it was above the 18.2-mln-dlr surplus recordedin january 1987, the central bank said.    Exports in february totalled 379.4 mln dlrs, 17.2 pct abovethe january figure. Imports fell 9.2 pct from the previousmonth to 277.2 mln dlrs. The figures for the same month lastyear were 314 mln and 208.6 mln dlrs, respectively.    The accumulated trade surplus over the first two months of1987 stands at 120.4 mln dlrs against 132.8 mln dlrs theprevious year. Reuter
JAPAN WARNS U.S. IT MAY RETALIATE IN TRADE DISPUTE Japan warned the United States it maytake retaliatory measures if the United States imposes itsplanned trade sanctions on April 17, a senior governmentofficial said.    Shinji Fukukawa, Vice Minister of the International Tradeand Industry Ministry, said in a statement Japan would considermeasures under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade andother actions if the United States imposes 100 pct tariffs onsome Japanese exports as planned next week.    However, Fukukawa said Japan was ready to continue tradetalks with the United States despite its failure to convinceAmerica to call off the threatened tariffs during two days ofemergency talks which ended in Washington yesterday.    Last month President Reagan announced the sanctions inretaliation for what he called Japan's failure to honour a July1986 agreement to stop dumping computer microchips in marketsoutside the United States and to open its home market toAmerican goods.    Fukukawa said the United States had regrettably notlistened to Japan's explanation of its efforts to live up thepact and said Washington had not given any detailed explanationof why it planned to impose the tariffs. REUTER
TAIWAN ANNOUNCES NEW ROUND OF IMPORT TARIFF CUTS Taiwan announced plans for another roundof import tariff cuts on 862 foreign goods shortly before tradetalks with Washington which officials described as a move tohelp balance trade with the United States.    Wang Der-Hwa, Deputy Director of the Finance Ministry'sCustoms Administration Department, told reporters the list ofproducts included 60 items asked by Washington.    "The move is part of our government efforts to encourageimports from our trading partners, particularly from the UnitedStates," he said.    He said the ministry sent a proposal today to the cabinetthat the tariffs on such products as cosmetics, bicycles,apples, radios, garments, soybeans and television sets be cutby between five and 50 pct.    The cabinet was expected to give its approval next Thursdayand the new tariff cuts would be implemented possibly startingon April 20, he added.    Taiwan introduced a sweeping tariff cut on some 1,700foreign products last January aimed at helping reduce itsgrowing trade surplus with the United States, the island'slargest trading partner.    Washington however was not satisfied with the cuts andpressed for more reductions as a way of cutting its huge tradedeficit with Taipei.    Washington's deficit with Taipei rose to a record 13.6billion U.S. Dlrs last year from 10.2 billion in 1985. Itwidened to 3.61 billion in the first quarter of 1987 from 2.78billion a year earlier, Taiwan's official figures show.    Today's announcement came before a departure later today ofa 15-member Taiwan delegation for Washington for a series oftrade talks with U.S. Officials.    The delegation's leader, Vincent Siew, told reporters lastnight he was leaving with "a heavy heart," meaning that he wouldface tough talks in Washington because of rising protectionistsentiments in the U.S. Congress. Taiwan's 1986 trade surpluswith Washington was the third largest, after Japan and Canada.    Siew said the talks, starting on April 14, would cover U.S.Calls for Taiwan to open its market to American products,purchases of major U.S. Machinery and power plant equipment,import tariff cuts and protection of intellectual property.    "I am afraid this time we have to give more than take fromour talks with the U.S.," he said without elaborating. REUTER
BRITISH MINISTER SAYS HE WARNED TOKYO OF SANCTIONS A British minister said he had given theJapanese government a clear warning of sanctions againstJapanese companies if Tokyo did not allow more access to itsinternal markets "and it was clearly understood."    Corporate Affairs Minister Michael Howard said on hisreturn from a visit to Japan he thought the Japanese werebeginning to appreciate the need to be "fair and open" aboutaccess to their own markets.    At an airport news conference Howard denied oppositioncharges that his trip had been a failure because he hadreturned empty-handed.    "I did what I set out to do. I was sent to deliver a clearmessage to the Japanese government, and I delivered it veryclearly, and it has been clearly understood."    Howard said that under the Financial Services Act thegovenment had considerable flexibility in taking sanctionsagainst Japanese companies and finance houses operating inBritain.    "It is not simply a question of withdrawing or refusingoperating licences. We can ban firms from certain countriesfrom carrying out certain kinds of business, while allowingthem to carry out other kinds."    "I hope we don't have to use these powers, but I made itclear in Japan that if our timetable isn't met, we shall usethem."    He said it would be unfortunate if Britain and Japan becameinvolved in a tit-for-tat exchange, adding that Japan gainedmore than anyone else from an open trading relationship.    "I think they are beginning to appreciate that if thisrelationship is to continue, it is very important for them tobe fair and open about access to their own markets."    On the question of the British firm Cable and Wireless Plc<CAWL.L>, which is trying to win a significant share oftelecommunications contracts in Japan, Howard said he had toldthe Japanese this was being widely regarded as a test case.    He said there were signs of movement on the case. Cable andWireless was due to take part in talks in Japan next Tuesday,he said.    Earlier this week British Prime Minister Margaret Thatchersaid Britain could not go it alone on sanctions against Japan,but would have to coordinate action with its European Communitypartners.    Community sources said after a meeting of trade officialsyesterday that the group might impose steep new tariffs on arange of Japanese goods to prevent diversion from United Statesmarkets if Washington imposes trade sanctions against Tokyo asit has threatened. REUTER
YUGOSLAV ECONOMY WORSENED IN 1986, BANK DATA SHOWS National Bank economic data for 1986shows that Yugoslavia's trade deficit grew, the inflation raterose, wages were sharply higher, the money supply expanded andthe value of the dinar fell.    The trade deficit for 1986 was 2.012 billion dlrs, 25.7 pcthigher than in 1985. The trend continued in the first threemonths of this year as exports dropped by 17.8 pct, in hardcurrency terms, to 2.124 billion dlrs.    Yugoslavia this year started quoting trade figures indinars based on current exchange rates, instead of dollarsbased on a fixed exchange rate of 264.53 dinars per dollar.    Yugoslavia's balance of payments surplus with theconvertible currency area fell to 245 mln dlrs in 1986 from 344mln in 1985. The National Bank said the drop was due to adeterioration in trade. Exports to the convertible currencyarea rose 11.6 pct from 1985, while imports rose 17.8 pct.    Retail prices rose an average of 88.1 pct in 1986 whileindustrial producer prices rose by 70.6 pct, the bank's datashowed. The cost of living rose by 89.1 pct.    Personal incomes rose by 109 pct in 1986.    Prime Minister Branko Mikulic warned in February that wageswere too high given the level of productivity.    Mikulic introduced a law cutting wages to the level of thelast quarter of 1986 and tying future rises to productivity.    Bank statistics show the overall 1986 rise in M-1 moneysupply was 109.1 pct with a year-end position of 3,895.9billion dinars. Yugoslavs have 9.8 billion dlrs worth offoreign currency savings in the country and 20 billion dlrsabroad, mostly owned by workers employed in western Europe.    The dinar fell by 73.1 pct against a basket of hardcurrencies in 1986. The highest depreciation was against theSwiss franc, 85.3 pct, and the lowest against the U.S. Dollar,46.2 pct. REUTER
SINGAPORE EXTERNAL TRADE GAINS 8.8 PCT IN QUARTER Singapore's external trade grew 8.8pct in first quarter 1987, against a 12.4 pct decline in thesame period last year and two pct growth in the previousquarter, the Trade Development Board said.    It said exports over the period rose by 8.7 pct to 12.38billion dlrs and imports by 8.9 pct to 14.64 billion for atrade deficit of 2.26 billion, against a 2.06 billion deficitin the same 1986 period and 1.78 billion deficit previously.    The growth was attributed to the strength of non-oil trade,especially computers and computer parts, electronic componentsand garments, it said. REUTER
MALAYSIA'S 1986 MANUFACTURING EXPORTS RISE 24 PCT Malaysia's manufacturing exportsrose by 24.5 pct to 15.1 billion ringgit in 1986, chairman ofthe Export Promotion Council Ahmad Sarji Abdul Hamind said.    The improved export performance was led by electrical andelectronic products, textiles, footwear, clothing, processedfood, timber, chemical and rubber products, he told a newsconference.    However, total gross exports for the year declined by 5.6pct to 35.9 billion ringgit from 38 billion in 1985 due to afall in major commodity exports and weak prices, he said. REUTER
TRADE ISSUES STRAINING EC'S PATIENCE WITH JAPAN Member states of the EuropeanCommunity are starting to run out of patience with Japan whichthey believe has repeatedly promised major initiatives to openits market to imports, but as often made only minor moves.    Diplomatic sources here said several recent actions by ECcountries bear witness to a new disillusionment with thewillingness, or at least the ability, of the Japanesegovernment to reduce its massive trade surplus with the EC.    However, they said an all-out trade war may be far off, asEC states know they would suffer almost as much as Japan.    Senior EC diplomats gave a generally favourable reaction toan EC executive commission proposal under which the EC couldraise tariffs on a range of Japanese products if the U.S.Carries out a threat to make a similar move on April 17.    The EC tariffs, which would involve renouncing obligationsentered into with the world trade body GATT, would be designedto stop a diversion of exports to the EC market from that ofthe U.S.    The diplomats were meeting as Tokyo announced that the EC'strade deficit with Japan reached a record 2.13 billion dlrs inMarch, up from 1.94 billion in February.    In 1986, Japanese exports to the EC totalled 30.67 billiondlrs, up 4.5 pct from 1985, while EC exports to Japan fell onepct to 12.43 billion dlrs.    In Paris, trade minister Michel Noir said France hasdecided to give Japan a taste of its own medicine.    Burgeoning imports of microwave ovens and of frozenCoquilles St Jacques will be restricted by a strict applicationof French quality standards -- something EC states say oftenhappens to their own exports entering Japan.    Britain has threatened to withdraw the licences of Japanesebanks and insurance companies to operate in the City of London,because the British Cable and Wireless company lost out incompetition for a Japanese telecommucations contract.    However, British officials in London have said that thegovernment may have gone too far in implying that it would takeimmediate drastic action unless the contract was reopened.    By contrast, West Germany, with the EC's most successfuleconomy, has never threatened Tokyo with sanctions, preferringto rely on firm diplomacy and encouragement of its ownindustries to surmount obstacles to export to Japan.    The EC Commission itself has switched its tactics in recentyears, substituting general calls for action by Japan to openits market with specific demands for moves in key areas.    At present, it is, for instance, pressuring Japan to endallegedly discriminatory taxation of imported wines andspirits, to ensure EC companies have a chance to win contractsfor the building of a new international airport, and tosimplify certification and safety checks on imported cars.    EC officials say these tactics yield some benefits, butoften the Japanese announce modifications of their non-tariffbarriers which open the door to imports by only a token amount.    They stress, however, that any action must be taken by theEC as a whole to stop beggar-my-neighbour action.    One of the problems Britain could face if it were towithdraw licences for Japanese banks would be that the bankerswould be welcomed with open arms in Frankfurt or Amsterdam,they point out. REUTER
CURRENCY MOVES MAY BE HURTING WORLD TRADE Japanese trade figures are seriouslychallenging the entrenched view of policy makers of the Groupof Seven industrialised nations that relative currency ratesare the key to smoothing world trade problems.    Senior Japanese, U.S. And European officials in Tokyo saythey are at a loss to fully explain the data, for if currenciesare the key they ask, why then are are U.S. Exports to Japanshrinking?    What if manipulating currencies and driving the dollar downmade world trade problems worse rather than solving them,fulfilling Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker's forecast ofworld trade recession?    U.S.-Japan trade has declined even after a 40 pct dollarfall against the yen since the September 1985 Group of Fivepact in New York.    The lower dollar ought to have made U.S. Exports 40 pctmore competitive in Japan. The officials, most of themeconomists, can offer no objective reason why they are not.    Worse, how are European Community sales to Japan risingrapidly when the European Currency Unit has until now declinedonly 11 pct against the yen.?    Last week's G-7 meeting in Washington has been widelyinterpreted as a sign from the policy makers that the dollarmust go lower. So worst of all, what if Volcker is correct?    At a loss to give an objective explanation, officials canonly offer explanations which tend to be highly subjective.    "I don't know and I don't think anyone knows," said HughRichardson, acting head of the EC delegation in Tokyo.    "What I do know is that Community exporters are making ahell of an effort in this market. If you make an effort, thereis money to be made in Japan," he added.    But U.S. Officials and businessmen are convinced low U.S.Exports to Japan are Japan's fault. They cite restrictive tradepractices, protected Japanese trade sectors, such asagriculture, and non-tariff barriers, such as unreasonablechecking and customs procedures for car imports.    Publicly, Japanese officials remain conciliatory in theface of what they see as U.S. Aggression. In private, theyblame U.S. Industry for being uncompetitive.    "We see it that way, but we don't like to seem arrogant,"said a senior official, who declined to be named. "We like torefrain from accusing them of not making enough effort."    Industrialists such as Eishiro Saito, chairman of theKeidanren business group, and Sony Corp chairman Akio Moritarepeatedly accuse foreign firms of not making enough effort tounderstand Japan's markets, and some foreigners agree. "The realissue is the inability of major sectors of American andEuropean industry to compete not only internationally but evenin their home markets," Peter Huggler, President of InterallianzBank Zurich, told a recent conference in Switzerland.REUTER...^M
TRADE ISSUES STRAINING EC'S PATIENCE WITH JAPAN Member states of the EuropeanCommunity are starting to run out of patience with Japan whichthey believe has repeatedly promised major initiatives to openits market to imports, but as often made only minor moves.    Diplomatic sources here said several recent actions by ECcountries bear witness to a new disillusionment with thewillingness, or at least the ability, of the Japanesegovernment to reduce its massive trade surplus with the EC.    However, they said an all-out trade war may be far off, asEC states know they would suffer almost as much as Japan.   Senior EC diplomats gave a generally favourable reaction toan EC executive commission proposal under which the EC couldraise tariffs on a range of Japanese products if the U.S.Carries out a threat to make a similar move on April 17.    The EC tariffs, which would involve renouncing obligationsentered into with the world trade body GATT, would be designedto stop a diversion of exports to the EC market from that ofthe U.S.    The diplomats were meeting as Tokyo announced that the EC'strade deficit with Japan reached a record 2.13 billion dlrs inMarch, up from 1.94 billion in February. Reuter
EC COULD DECIDE ON JAPAN TRADE MOVES IN LATE MAY The European Community (EC) haseffectively given Japan six weeks to take moves to open itsmarket to imports before it decides on possible toughretaliatory trade measures, EC diplomats said.    They said EC foreign ministers will meet on May 25 and 26to review the state of trade relations between the two sides.    The EC executive commission was asked by representatives ofmember states on Friday to propose a renunciation of some ECpledges to the world trade body, GATT, unless there are"adequate and early measures to open the Japanese market."    Such a renunciation would be the first step to imposingstiff increases in duties, or quantitative limits, on Japaneseexports.    The diplomats said it was unlikely that the issue would bediscussed in detail at the next meeting of EC foreign ministerson April 27 and 28 in Luxembourg as time was needed to prepareproposals for possible retaliatory action.    They said the commission has powers to take some limitedaction before getting ministerial approval to prevent Japaneseexports of electrical, photographic and other goods beingdiverted to Europe following of possible U.S. Tariff moves.    In May, the ministers are also likely to discuss how toprevent Japan from getting an extra trading advantage as aresult of Spain and Portugal joining the bloc, which obligesthem gradually to reduce tariffs on many industrial goods.    Japan's trade surplus with the Community has grownsteadily, registering a record 2.13 billion dlrs in March. Reuter
TAIWAN ANNOUNCES NEW ROUND OF IMPORT TARIFF CUTS Taiwan announced plans for another roundof import tariff cuts on 862 foreign goods shortly before tradetalks with Washington which officials described as a move tohelp balance trade with the United States.    Wang Der-Hwa, Deputy Director of the Finance Ministry'sCustoms Administration Department, told reporters the list ofproducts included 60 items asked by Washington.    "The move is part of our government efforts to encourageimports from our trading partners, particularly from the UnitedStates," he said.    He said the ministry sent a proposal today to the cabinetthat the tariffs on such products as cosmetics, bicycles,apples, radios, garments, soybeans and television sets be cutby between five and 50 pct.    The cabinet was expected to give its approval next Thursdayand the new tariff cuts would be implemented possibly startingon April 20, he added.    Taiwan introduced a sweeping tariff cut on some 1,700foreign products last January aimed at helping reduce itsgrowing trade surplus with the United States, the island'slargest trading partner.    Washington however was not satisfied with the cuts andpressed for more reductions as a way of cutting its huge tradedeficit with Taipei.    Washington's deficit with Taipei rose to a record 13.6billion U.S. Dlrs last year from 10.2 billion in 1985. Itwidened to 3.61 billion in the first quarter of 1987 from 2.78billion a year earlier, Taiwan's official figures show.    Today's announcement came before a departure later today ofa 15-member Taiwan delegation for Washington for a series oftrade talks with U.S. Officials.    The delegation's leader, Vincent Siew, told reporters lastnight he was leaving with "a heavy heart," meaning that he wouldface tough talks in Washington because of rising protectionistsentiments in the U.S. Congress. Taiwan's 1986 trade surpluswith Washington was the third largest, after Japan and Canada.    Siew said the talks, starting on April 14, would cover U.S.Calls for Taiwan to open its market to American products,purchases of major U.S. Machinery and power plant equipment,import tariff cuts and protection of intellectual property.    "I am afraid this time we have to give more than take fromour talks with the U.S.," he said without elaborating. REUTER
U.S. FEBRUARY TRADE TO BE REPORTED ON NEW BASIS The February monthly merchandisetrade figures to be reported Tuesday by the Commerce Departmentwill be on a new basis reflecting more recent data, so avoidingfuture revisions of the monthly figure, Commerce officialssaid.    The overall January deficit of 14.8 billion dlrs will berevised, but the February figure will be a final one, officialssaid.    Previously, the initial monthly figure has had to berevised in subsequent months because of the time lag betweenthe report and the compiling of final estimates on imports andexports.    The reporting of the February trade data was delayedseveral weeks to permit gathering latest figures on imports andexports to give a clearer picture of the monthly trade balance. Reuter
U.S. FEBRUARY TRADE TO BE REPORTED ON NEW BASIS The February monthly merchandisetrade figures to be reported Tuesday by the Commerce Departmentwill be on a new basis reflecting more recent data, so avoidingfuture revisions of the monthly figure, Commerce officialssaid.    The overall January deficit of 14.8 billion dlrs will berevised, but the February figure will be a final one, officialssaid.    Previously, the initial monthly figure has had to berevised in subsequent months because of the time lag betweenthe report and the compiling of final estimates on imports andexports.    The reporting of the February trade data was delayedseveral weeks to permit gathering latest figures on imports andexports to give a clearer picture of the monthly trade balance. Reuter
MIYAZAWA SEES EVENTUAL LOWER U.S. TRADE DEFICIT Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawatold a press conference he expects the U.S. Trade deficit toeventually start reflecting economic fundamentals, which shouldinfluence exchange rates.    The minister was not referring to the U.S. Trade data to bereleased in Washington later today.    Miyazawa also said he told major industrial nations when hewas in Washington last week that present exchange rates are notnecessarily good. He had said earlier in Washington thatcurrent exchange rates were within levels implied in theFebruary Paris currency accord. REUTER
U.S. URGES JAPAN TO OPEN FARM MARKET FURTHER U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lynghas asked Japan to open its farm market further to helpWashington cut its trade deficit and ease protectionistpressures, an Agriculture Ministry official told reporters.    Hideo Maki, Director General of the ministry's EconomicAffairs Bureau, quoted Lyng as telling Agriculture MinisterMutsuki Kato that the removal of import restrictions would helpJapan as well as the United States.    The meeting with Kato opened a 12-day visit to Japan byLyng, who is here to dicuss farm trade.    However, Maki quoted Kato as replying that Japan wasalready the world's largest grain importer.    Kato added Japan is the largest customer for U.S. Grain anddepended on domestic output for only 53 pct of its foodrequirements in 1985.    Lyng said the U.S. Put high priority on talks on 12 farmproducts named in U.S. Complaints against Japan to the GeneralAgreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) last year, as well as onbeef, citrus products and rice.    Kato said Japan will maintain its current level ofself-sufficiency and will try not to produce surplus ricebecause potential production is higher than domestic demand.    The world farm market suffers from surpluses because ofrising production by exporting countries, he added.    Lyng said the U.S. Has been trying to reduce farm productoutput with expensive programs, Maki said.    Maki said the U.S. And Japan will hold detailed discussionson each trade item as well as a new round of GATT trade talksat a meeting on April 20, in which U.S. Trade RepresentativeClayton Yeutter will join. REUTER
PAPER SAYS U.S. TRADE DEFICIT CUT TO 13.65 BILLION The Washington Post said the U.S.Commerce Department yesterday issued a new report showing thatthe U.S. Merchandise trade deficit was 13.65 billion dollars inFebruary, a reduction of 1.4 billion dlrs from the 15.06billion figure the department reported only two days earlier.    The newspaper said: "News of the unexpectedly large 15billion deficit helped batter the dollar's value on foreignexchange markets and boosted U.S. Interest rates.    "However, the new report went largely unnoticed by financialmarkets since such a downward revision in the deficit is amonthly occurrence."    The Washington Post said: "By law, the department must firstpublish what a top commerce official agreed are misleadingtrade figures and then wait 48 hours before putting out themore accurate ones."    No one was immediately available at the Commerce Departmentfor comment on the Washington Post report. REUTER
JAPAN DETAILS PLAN TO STAVE OFF TRADE PROBLEMS Japan's Liberal Democratic Party (LDP)has drawn up a detailed plan calling for large tax cuts and anincrease in government purchases of foreign goods, the head ofthe committee working out the plan, Junichiro Koizumi, said.    The plan will also urge the government to double 1985'sofficial development assistance to 7.6 billion dlrs within fiveyears instead of seven as the government had promised, seniorLDP officials said at a press conference.    LDP executive council chairman Shintaro Abe will explainthe plan to U.S. Officials when he visits the U.S. On April 19.    Abe's visit is to prepare for Prime Minister YasuhiroNakasone's talks with President Ronald Reagan later this month.    Koizumi said the LDP plan will not specify the size of thetax cut or the amount of domestic demand to be stimulated.However, top LDP executives will work out figures so that Abewill be able to offer specifics to U.S. Officials.    The proposed increase in procurement of foreign goods bythe government will probably include the purchase of supercomputers, LDP officials said.specific trade problems with other nations and will encourageflows of funds to developing countries, the officials said.    The LDP expects the measures to prop up the economy andlessen trade problems with the U.S., They added.    The basic ideas of the LDP's plan were presented to andwelcomed by monetary authorities of the major industrialnations in Washington last week, they said.    The LDP plan will form the basis for the last of severalpackages to stimulate Japanese domestic demand and will beunveiled by the government in late May. REUTER
CHINA TRADE DEFICIT FALLS SHARPLY, RESERVES RISE China's trade deficit in the firstquarter fell to 1.05 billion dlrs from 3.04 billion in the same1986 period, customs figures show.    Zhang Zhongji, spokesman of the State Statistical Bureau,quoted the figures as showing exports rose 27 pct to 7.28billion dlrs and imports fell 5.1 pct to 8.33 billion.    He said if imports of gifts, foreign aid items andmaterials for joint ventures are excluded, the deficit was only350 mln dlrs, and the surplus on invisibles was 700 mln. As aresult, foreign exchange reserves increased somewhat from theirlevel at end-1986, he said, but gave no figure.    Official figures show the reserves at 10.514 billion dlrsat end-1986, down from 11.9 billion at end-1985.    Zhang said one reason for the rise in exports was improvedincentives to export firms, which are being allowed to retainmore foreign exchange from the goods they sell.    He said first quarter exports to Hong Kong and Macao rose35.5 pct to 2.48 billion dlrs and imports rose 55.3 pct to 1.46billion. Exports to Japan fell 2.3 pct to 1.28 billion andimports 24.4 pct to 2.14 billion.    Exports to the U.S. Rose 23 pct to 640 mln dlrs and importsfell 26.7 pct to 840 mln. Exports to the EEC rose 35.1 pct to770 mln dlrs and imports fell 3.8 pct to 1.5 billion, he said. REUTER
JAPAN FARM REFORM A KEY TO TRIMMING TRADE SURPLUS Basic reform of Japan's protected farmsector is a key to shifting its economy away from export todomestic-led growth, a vital step if it is to trim its tradesurplus, securities analysts said.    The farm sector, which is protected by import tariffs andquotas, propped up by subsidies and price supports, andsheltered by the tax system, has ample room for change, theysaid.    "In economic terms, reform would be a plus," said ChristopherChew of brokerage firm James Capel and Co.    The ultimate cost of the existing system is food pricestwice those in Europe and two to three times those in the U.S.,The analysts said.    Spending on food accounts for about one quarter of theaverage household's budget and roughly 10 pct of the grossnational product (GNP), according to a study by Chew.    Reducing these prices could increase household spendingpower by five pct, his study said. The money could be spent onproducts which would have a more direct impact in boostingdomestic growth, it added.    "There's a lot of slack," a U.S. Government official in Tokyosaid. "All that money could be spent on something else."    Direct central government subsidies to the farm sectoramount to some five billion dlrs per year. Independentestimates put total subsidies from all sources as high as 37billion and the analysts said much of that money is wasted.    Changing tax laws to encourage city residents who only farmon weekends to put their land up for sale for residentialdevelopment would also give a boost to domestic spending,economists said.    "Housing construction is the key strategic variable in theexpansion of domestic demand," wrote Chihiro Nakajima, professorat Kyoto Gakuen University.    Japanese business groups are calling for staged farm reformto shift some of the burden of trade friction and economicrestructuring away from the manufacturing sector and onto thefarm sector. Employers groups also want change. "If you reallywant to expand domestic demand, the way to do it is not toraise wages recklessly, but to reduce commodity prices," BumpeiOtsuki, President of the Japan Federation of Employers'Associations told a recent press conference.    External pressures are rising as the U.S. And Europe seekremoval of tariffs and quotas to help reduce their tradedeficits with Japan.    But vested Japanese interests opposed to change remain wellentrenched, dimming prospects for quick reform, analysts said.    Although the full-time farm population is falling and thereare signs the LDP is paying more attention to urbanconstituencies, the ruling party remains heavily dependent onfarm votes in the rural areas. One rural vote is worth severalcity votes due to the pattern of constituency borders.    The LDP is already in political trouble over its tax reformplan and does not want to raise another sticky issue so soon,the analysts said.    Consumer groups are politically weak and tend to accept thetraditional view that higher prices are a small fee to pay fornational food security, they said.    Powerful agricultural cooperatives are fiercely opposed toimport liberalisation, but are more flexible about reformsaimed at stepping up productivity, they said.    Reform, when it comes, will be in response to specificpressure rather than an all-embracing program, said Chew. REUTER
LYNG OPENS JAPAN TALKS ON FARM TRADE BARRIERS U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyngopens talks with Japanese government officials today well awarehis demand for the opening of Japanese rice, beef and citrusmarkets is likely to be rejected.     But in an interview with Reuters during the flight toTokyo yesterday, Lyng said the goal of his trip was to throw aninternational spotlight on Japan's agricultural importprotection in the hope pressure would build on Tokyo to openits markets.    "(The Japanese) have said they are happy we are coming, butthey are not going to give us anything," Lyng said.    U.S. Officials do not expect any Japanese concessionsduring Lyng's two-week visit here. Any farm trade concessionswould be unveiled later this month, they said.    "If there is anything of consequence to offer (PrimeMinister Yasuhiro) Nakasone would take it with him," when hevisits Washington later in the month, one U.S. Official said.    Lyng plans to ask Japan to open the door to rice imports bypartially lifting the longstanding ban on foreign purchases.    A private U.S. Rice trader visited Tokyo last weekrequesting Japan buy 200,000 tonnes of rice for industrial usessuch as making sake. Japan has rejected the overture, sayingTokyo maintains a policy of self-sufficiency in rice.    Lyng will also press Japan to eliminate an import quota forbeef by April 1988 because he believes Japanese consumers wouldlike to buy much more beef than currently allowed.    He cited the example of a California company whichtransports live U.S. Cattle to Japan by air for slaughter tocircumvent the beef quota. The cost of transport is higher thanthe value of the animal, he said.    U.S. Officials said the Japan Livestock Industry PromotionCorporation which regulates beef imports, was forced to borrowfrom the fiscal 1987 quota earlier this year because the 1986quota was exhausted and Japanese beef prices were rising. Japanhas said it cannot open its markets to beef imports.    Along with beef, the U.S. Will also press Japan toeliminate import quotas on fresh oranges and orange juice byApril, 1988. Some U.S. Officials believe Japan may eventuallybe willing to scrap the quota on fresh oranges becauseliberalized trade would not necessarily damage the Japanesemandarin orange industry.    The quota on juice may be harder to eliminate becauseimports might replace domestic produced juice, U.S. AndJapanese officials have said.   Lyng has resurrected a past U.S. Proposal that Japan buysurplus U.S. Foodgrains for donation to developing countries,but some U.S. Officials are skeptical action will be taken.   Lyng will also urge Japan to put its domestic farm policies,including rice, on the negotiating table during GATT talks inGeneva. He said Japan must eliminate import quotas on certainminor food products or face possible U.S. Reprisals. REUTER
JAPAN DETAILS PLAN TO STAVE OFF TRADE PROBLEMS Japan's Liberal Democratic Party (LDP)has drawn up a detailed plan calling for large tax cuts and anincrease in government purchases of foreign goods, the head ofthe committee working out the plan, Junichiro Koizumi, said.    The plan will also urge the government to double 1985'sofficial development assistance to 7.6 billion dlrs within fiveyears instead of seven as the government had promised, seniorLDP officials said at a press conference.    LDP executive council chairman Shintaro Abe will explainthe plan to U.S. Officials when he visits the U.S. On April 19.    Abe's visit is to prepare for Prime Minister YasuhiroNakasone's talks with President Ronald Reagan later this month.    Koizumi said the LDP plan will not specify the size of thetax cut or the amount of domestic demand to be stimulated.However, top LDP executives will work out figures so that Abewill be able to offer specifics to U.S. Officials.    The proposed increase in procurement of foreign goods bythe government will probably include the purchase of supercomputers, LDP officials said.    According to the plan, Japan will also strive to solvespecific trade problems with other nations and will encourageflows of funds to developing countries, the officials said.    The LDP expects the measures to prop up the economy andlessen trade problems with the U.S., They added.    The basic ideas of the LDP's plan were presented to andwelcomed by monetary authorities of the major industrialnations in Washington last week, they said.    The LDP plan will form the basis for the last of severalpackages to stimulate Japanese domestic demand and will beunveiled by the government in late May. REUTER
BALDRIGE TO LAUNCH FAR EAST TRADE DRIVE U.S. Commerce Secretary MalcolmBaldrige leaves on Saturday on a 10-day trip to the Far East tohelp spur U.S. Trade and improve business relations with China,South Korea and the Philippines, U.S. Officials say.    Baldrige will also stop in Hong Kong to meet Britishofficials and local U.S. And Hong Kong businessmen.    The U.S. Last year had major deficits with three of itsAsian trading partners -- South Korea 7.1 billion dlrs, HongKong 6.4 billion and China 2.1 billion. The deficit with thePhilippines was 800 mln dlrs.    Baldrige will meet South Korean President Chun Doo-hwan andTrade Minister Rha Woong Bae on Monday to discuss opening SouthKorean markets to more U.S. Goods.    Baldrige will be in Peking from April 21 to 24. He willmeet Zheng Tuobin, minister for foreign economic relations andtrade, attend a meeting of the U.S.-China Joint Commission onCommerce and Trade and address a management and trainingorganisation.    However, U.S. Officials said a chief purpose of Baldrige'svisit would be to discuss relaxed U.S. Rules for transferringmodern technology to Chinese industries.    In Hong Kong, Baldrige will hold meetings on April 27 withGovernor David Wilson and Trade and Industry Secretary Eric Ho,as well as addressing the American Chamber of Commerce.    U.S. Officials said Baldrige will meet PhilippinesPresident Corazon Aquino on April 28 to show continued U.S.Support for her government and to discuss steps it could taketo improve the atmosphere for American investment.    He will also will meet Finance Secretary Jaime Ongpin andTrade and Industry Secretary Jose Concepcion. REUTER
U.S. URGES JAPAN TO OPEN FARM MARKET FURTHER U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lynghas asked Japan to open its farm market further to helpWashington cut its trade deficit and ease protectionistpressures, an Agriculture Ministry official told reporters.    Hideo Maki, Director General of the ministry's EconomicAffairs Bureau, quoted Lyng as telling Agriculture MinisterMutsuki Kato that the removal of import restrictions would helpJapan as well as the United States.    The meeting with Kato opened a 12-day visit to Japan byLyng, who is here to dicuss farm trade.    However, Maki quoted Kato as replying that Japan wasalready the world's largest grain importer.    Kato added Japan is the largest customer for U.S. Grain anddepended on domestic output for only 53 pct of its foodrequirements in 1985.    Lyng said the U.S. Put high priority on talks on 12 farmproducts named in U.S. Complaints against Japan to the GeneralAgreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) last year, as well as onbeef, citrus products and rice.    Kato said Japan will maintain its current level ofself-sufficiency and will try not to produce surplus ricebecause potential production is higher than domestic demand.    The world farm market suffers from surpluses because ofrising production by exporting countries, he added.    Lyng said the U.S. Has been trying to reduce farm productoutput with expensive programs, Maki said.    Maki said the U.S. And Japan will hold detailed discussionson each trade item as well as a new round of GATT trade talksat a meeting on April 20, in which U.S. Trade RepresentativeClayton Yeutter will join. REUTER
REAGAN TO ANNOUNCE DECISION ON JAPAN SANCTIONS President Reagan today is toannounce a decision on tough new tariffs on Japanese exports toretaliate for what he calls Japan's failure to end its unfairpractices in semiconductor trade.    The 100 pct tariffs are to be imposed on 300 mln dlrs ofJapanese goods recommended for curbs by a special panel ofexperts headed by the U.S. Trade Representative's Office.    Reagan announced last March 27 he would impose the tariffson certain goods taken from a list that ranged from computorsand television sets to power tools and photographic film.    The panel this week winnowed through the list of the some20 products and sent their recommendations yesterday to SantaBarbara, where Reagan is vacationing.    In his March annoucement, Reagan said "I am committed tofull enforcement of our trade agreements designed to provideAmerican industry with free and fair trade opportunities."    He added the tariffs would be lifted once Japan honored thepact it signed last year to end dumping semiconductors in worldmarkets and opened its home market to U.S. products.    U.S. officials said Japan had done nothing since the Marchannouncement to alter Reagan's plan to invoke the sanctions.    White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said yesterday:  "wedo not want a trade war, but we feel that this is the kind ofaction that requires meaningful action."    Reagan's move follows steadily rising U.S. trade deicits,with last year's hitting a record $169.8 billion.    About one-third of the deficit is in trade with Japan.    Congress is weighing a trade bill to force the president toretaliate in certain cases of unfair trade practices.    He has opposed the legislation, saying it would preventnegotiated solutions to trade disputes and, in any case, thatexisting law was adqeuate to end unfair trade practices.    Trade experts say his tough action against the Japanese wasas much to penalize the Japanese as to show Congress he did notneed any new trade legislation.    The Japanese have complained that they have been honoringthe semiconductor pact, but that it would take time before theresults showed up.    U.S. officials, however, have said their monitoring ofJapanese semiconductor shipments to East Asian countries andWestern Europe showed no letup in the dumping and that theJapanese home markets remained shut to American exports.    Japan has said that if Reagan imposed the tariffs, it wouldfile a complaint with the General Agreement on Tariff and Trade(GATT).    It said hoped GATT would find the U.S. retaliation hadviolated the regulations of the global trading group and wouldapprove compensation or Japanese retaliation.    U.S. officials have said they did not think Japan wouldretaliate because it had too much to lose in any trade war withthe United States. Reuter
YEUTTER SAYS JAPANESE CURB ALL BUT CERTAIN U.S. Trade Representative ClaytonYeutter said it was all but certain President Reagan would goahead today and impose curbs on Japanese exports as planned.    Asked in a television interview what the chance was forReagan to cancel the scheduled 100 pct tariffs on Japaneseelectronic exports, he said "slim to none."    Reagan announced on March 27 he would impose the tariffs toretaliate for Japan's failure to honor a 1986 agreement to enddumping computer semiconductors in world markets at less thancost and to open its home markets to U.S. products.    Yeutter, on the NBC program "Today," said the United Statesdid not want to terminate the agreement and would dropthe tariffs once Japan began fulfilling the agreement.    He said Japanese negotiators last week told U.S. officialsthey were honoring the pact, but Yeutter said it would taketime to monitor any compliance.    Asked how long that would take, he said "We want to see apattern of compliance, so in a minimum I would say that wouldtake a few weeks."    Yeutter said he did not think there would be much consumerimpact by the tariffs on 300 mln dlrs worth of Japanese goodsbecause the items selected are also readily available fromother countries and manufacturers.    He said he did not think Japan would retaliate.    "It seems to me it is not in the interests of either countryto get in an escalating conflict.  The Japanese understand thatfull well," Yeutter said.    He added Japan might challenge the tariffs in the GeneralAgreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), but "that's more of apaper kind of exercise and I don't really expect to see anyadverse impact on U.S. trade."    Yeutter also said he did not see any way the semiconductorissue could be resolved before or during a Washington visitlater this month by Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone.    He said he hoped the visit, which is to have trade as amajor issue, would be productive but "I don't see any practicalway to resolve this particular dispute before or during hisvisit." reuter
U.S. COMMERCE TRADE REPORT OMITS FREIGHT COSTS The Commerce Department said on thatinsurance and freight costs for imported goods of 1.45 billiondlrs were included in the February trade deficit of 15.1billion dlrs reported on Tuesday.    The department is required by law to wait 48 hours afterthe initial trade report to issue a second report on a "customsvalue" basis, which eliminates the freight and insurancecharges from the cost of imports.    Private-sector economists emphasized that the CommerceDepartment was not revising down the deficit by 1.45 billiondlrs but simply presenting the figures on a different basis.    A report in the Washington Post caused a stir in theforeign exchanges today because it gave the impression, dealerssaid, that the underlying trade deficit for February had beenrevised downward.    The Commerce department would like to have the law changedto permit it to report both sets of figures simultaneously.    "My feeling is the second one is a better report but there'slegislation that requires us to delay it two days," said RobertOrtner, Commerce undersecretary for economic affairs.    "But this has been going on for a long time and no one paysany attention to the second figure."    The 15.1 billion dlr February trade deficit compared with arevised January deficit of 12.3 billion dlrs.    The law requiring a 48-hour delay in publishing the monthlytrade figure excluding freight and insurance was passed in1979.    Reportedly the feeling was the first figure, which includescustoms, freight and insurance, allowed a better comparisonwith other countries that reported their trade balances on thesame basis.    The second figure, which would always be lower by deductingfreight and insurance, presents the deficit in a more favorablelight for the Reagan administration.    Ortner said he would like to see the law changed toeliminate the 48-hour delay in reporting the two figures.    "We're considering it," he said, "It's one of those dinosaurlaws and I think it's time has come."    The second figure, which would always be lower by deductingfreight and insurance, presents the deficit in a more favorablelight for the Reagan administration.    Ortner said he would like to see the law changed toeliminate the 48-hour delay in reporting the two figures.    "We're considering it," he said, "It's one of those dinosaurlaws and I think its time has come." Reuter
JAPANESE TARIFFS SEEN AS WORLDWIDE WARNING The tough trade sanctions PresidentReagan imposed on Japanese exports are not only a shot acrossJapan's bow but also a sign Reagan will attack unfair tradepractices worldwide, U.S. officials said.    But Robert Crandall, a trade specialist at BrookingsInstitution, a think tank, said "a shot across their bow canoften result in a shot in our stern."    He said it left the United States open to retaliation.    The U.S. officials said the 100 pct tariffs Reagan orderedon 300 mln dlrs worth of Japanese goods will also show Congressthat a tough pro-trade stand can be taken under existing laws,and no new protectionist legislation is needed.    In the past year tough trade action had been taken againstthe European Community over corn and sorghum, Taiwan over beerand wine, South Korea over counterfeiting of copyrights,patents and trademarkets and Japan on tobacco.    White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater told reporters thetariffs - up from five pct - should be seen as a "serious signal"to other nations on the need for fair trade practices.    Reagan said he imposed the sanctions on certain computers,television sets and some hand tools because Japan did not honoran agreement to end dumping semiconductors in world markets atless than cost and to open its markets to U.S. products. Thetariffs were placed on items which were available from othersources so there would be little effect on the Americanconsumer, Fitzwater said.    Reagan has come under heavy pressure to take tougher action- especially against Japan - to end global unfair tradepractices and reverse the growing U.S. trade deficit.    The alternative was that if he did not, Congress would.    The U.S. trade gap last year was a record 169.8 billiondlrs, and continues to rise, with Japan accounting for aboutone-third of America's overall deficit.    But there are other two-way deficits - with Canada, WestGermany, Taiwan and South Korea - and Reagan officials said thepresident is ready to fight them all.    Reagan said in announcing the sanctions today that "I regretthat these actions are necessary," but that the health andvitality of the U.S. semiconductor industry was essential toAmerican competitiveness in world markets.    "We cannot allow it to be jeopardized by unfair tradingpractices," Reagan added in the statement from his Californiavacation home at Santa Barbara.    He said the tariffs would remain in force until Japanabided by the agreement.    U.S. officials say the action today will show Congress -which is about to write a trade bill he does not like - that healready has the tools needed to fight unfair trade.    The White House aide said of the tariff action, "it wasn'tdone to appease Congress, but because there was an unfair tradepractice."    The aide added, however, "on another plane, it was anexample of how the administration uses the trade law to fightunfair practices, an that it is not necessary to make a majoroverall of our trade laws."    But the analyst, Crandall, said the tariff action was notin the best interests of the United States, and thatnegotiations should have been pursued to resolve the issue.    "It's very dangerous to go down the retaliatory route," hesaid, "because it leads to more retaliation and restrictions intrade."    Crandall said, "the administration is doing this for itspolitical impact across the country, and therefore its impacton Congress."    He said, "I don't think it makes a lot of sense."    But other analysts said it made little difference whetherthe tariffs were aimed at U.S. trading partners or Congress,and that the main point was that the trading partners were onnotice that retaliation was a weapon Reagan was ready to use.    Spokesman Fitzwater said "we don't want a trade war," but theimposition of sanctions showed the United States would act whenit had evidence that trade pacts were being violated.    Crandall said, "the administration is doing this for itspolitical impact across the country, and therefore its impacton Congress."    He said, "I don't think it makes a lot of sense."    But other analysts said it made little difference whetherthe tariffs were aimed at U.S. trading partners or Congress,and that the main point was that the trading partners were onnotice that retaliation was a weapon Reagan was ready to use.    Spokesman Fitzwater said "we don't want a trade war," but theimposition of sanctions showed the United States would act whenit had evidence that trade pacts were being violated. Reuter
YEUTTER ALMOST SURE JAPAN WILL NOT RETALIATE U.S. Trade Representative ClaytonYeutter said he was almost sure Japan would not retaliateagainst tariffs President Reagan slapped on 300 mln dlrs ofJapanese electronic goods today.    "I'd say it's 99 plus pct sure that it (the tariffs) willnot provoke a retaliation on American products," Yeutter toldCable News Network.    "Japan has far too much at stake in this relationship (withthe United States) to seriously entertain thoughts ofretaliation," Yeutter said.    Earlier today, Reagan imposed 100 pct tariffs on a range ofJapanese goods in retaliation for Japan's alleged violation ofa bilateral pact governing semiconductor trade.    Yeutter did say that U.S. farm products would be targetedif Tokyo decided to hit back.    "If they (Japan) were to retaliate, it would probably be onsomething like American agricultural products," he said.    "But I really think the chances of that happening arebetween slim and none," he added. Reuter
JAPAN WILL NOT RETALIATE NOW AGAINST U.S. TARIFFS Japan does not plan to take immediateretaliatory action against implementation of U.S. Tariffs onsome Japanese electronic goods, the minister of internationaltrade and industry, Hajime Tamura, said in a statement.    Japan requested bilateral consultations in accordance withArticle 23-1 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade(GATT) in Washington yesterday.    Tamura said there was deep regret over the U.S. Measures,which will impose 100 pct tariffs on about 300 mln dlrs worthof Japanese imports of some small computers, colour televisionsets and power tools. REUTER
BALDRIGE PRAISES NEW SOUTH KOREAN TRADE POLICIES U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrigepraised South Korea's new surplus-cutting trade policies butwarned of possible protectionist retaliation if Seoul's marketliberalisation efforts falter or fail.    In a press conference after talks with South Koreanleaders, Baldrige called the government's announced intentionto regulate exports and boost imports "a very, very importantstep, the right direction for the Korean government to take."    The government adopted the new policies last week in thehope of heading off a trade war with the U.S.    Baldrige said the policies "showed an understanding of thefact that this country cannot go on indefinitely growing byexports alone."    "There has to be enough of a change so that domestic growthbegins to take more of the load," he said.    South Korea had a 7.2 billion dlr trade surplus withWashington in 1986, thanks largely to booming sales of cars andconsumer electronic goods. It racked up another 1.4 billiondlrs in surplus in the first quarter of this year.    Baldrige said Seoul's package of measures was "broad enoughand comprehensive enough so that ... Actions can be taken forliberalising imports (and) increasing the domestic economy, ifthe government is willing to follow through."    "We will be watching the implementation of this new policydirection very closely," he said. "Because of the protectionismgrowing in the U.S., We see a real problem if Korea does notkeep on the same path ... Of steadily increasingliberalisation.... If that should falter or fail or turnbackward, I'm as sure as I'm standing here that we'd seeprotectionist movement in the U.S."    Baldrige said he and South Korean Trade Minister RhaWoong-bae spent much time discussing trade problems in specificproduct categories.    These included service industries, which he said were stilltoo much of a closed sector in South Korea, and computers andcars. Baldrige said he urged speedy action on removing thetariffs and taxes on imported U.S. Cars which can make themsell for up to three times their American prices.    "We want to stop that. With this sort of thing, there'sgoing to be trouble somewhere down the road," he said. "We arejust pointing this out."    Asked if Seoul's measures could succeed without arevaluation of the won, which Washington has been urging formonths, Baldrige declined to comment. "We don't have any targetfor any particular currency, but we do feel that currenciesaround the world, if we are going to be successful as a worldeconomy, have to reflect the fundamentals of the variouseconomies involved," he said.    Baldrige said he had agreed to Rha's proposal forcooperation on forming U.S.-South Korean joint ventures inthird countries. The American government would be pleased toencourage U.S. Firms to get involved, he added.    Commenting on President Reagan's decision to increasetariffs on certain Japanese imports to the U.S., Baldrige saidWashington's trade problems with Japan were not comparable toits difficulties with South Korea.    "I think the attitude in Korea is both reasonable and fair,"he said. "It's a firm attitude. We don't get anything fornothing or just by asking for it.    "But our negotiations are friendly and reasonable and theyusually end up with something good happening at the end thatboth countries live up to." REUTER
JAPAN RICE POLICY EXTREME PROTECTIONISM, LYNG SAYS Japan's policy of self-sufficiency inrice is an example of extreme protectionism, visiting U.S.Agriculture secretary Richard Lyng told a press conference.    He told the National Press Club of Japan that because Japanhad a large export balance, not just with the U.S. But withother countries, it was inconsistent for it to be 100 pctself-sufficient in one product.    Speaking after farm trade talks with Japan agricultureminister Mutsuki Kato, Lyng said the U.S. Had not asked fortotal liberalisation of the rice market in Japan.    Lyng urged Japan to allow some imports of rice.    "We want to have some access in the rice market," he said.    He said both he and trade representative Clayton Yeutterwere disappointed at the outcome of talks with Japan. He toldreporters Japan had rejected the U.S. Proposal to opennegotiations on rice at the new round of trade talks at theGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.    Lyng said he suggested instead bilateral talks with Japanon rice.    Kato has said Japan cannot negotiate on its policy of riceself-sufficiency.    Asked what the next U.S. Step would be on the rice issue,Lyng said he did not know what Yeutter or the U.S. Riceindustry would do.    Yeutter has promised to consider again in July or Augustthis year a complaint against Japan's rice import ban by theU.S. Rice Millers Association if no breakthrough is made in themeantime.    U.S. Rice industry officials have indicated they wouldconsider filing another complaint against the Japan rice importban. REUTER
SOUTH KOREA CUTS EXPORT FINANCE LOANS South Korea has cut loans to exportingcompanies to help reduce the growing trade surplus with theUnited States and the European Community, finance ministryofficials said.    They said two billion dlrs worth of foreign currency loanswould be available to firms willing to import industrialfacilities, and 500 mln dlrs for those importing raw andintermediary materials and parts.    Exporters, who previously received 645 won (0.769 dlrs) foreach dollar's worth of overseas orders, will now get only 575won (0.686 dlrs), they said.    The officials said the government also stopped new bankloans given to aid the installation of export-orientedfacilities by the nation's 30 largest business groups.    A finance ministry official told Reuters the measures werepart of the South Korean government's package to curb theincrease in the nation's trade surpluses with major tradingpartners.    South Korea had a trade surplus of 7.2 billion dlrs withthe United States in 1986, against 4.1 billion in 1985. It hada surplus of 1.09 billion dlrs last year with the EC, against188.8 mln dlrs in 1985. REUTER
LYNG WARNS U.S. TRADE SITUATION IS EXPLOSIVE (RPT) U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyngsaid Japanese government officials do not seem to understandthat protectionist sentiment in the U.S. Could lead to anexplosive situation and protectionist legislation.    Speaking to the National Press Club of Japan, Lyng saidprotectionist sentiment in the U.S. Has increased alarminglyduring the last six months.    "It is a radically changed situation and is very explosive.We are on the verge of some very harsh mandatory retaliatorylaws which would have very serious consequences for othercountries, especially Japan," Lyng told reporters.    Lyng's comments about protectionist trade legislationappeared to be a reference to the so-called Gephardt provision,requiring retaliation against countries which have tradesurpluses with the U.S., Trade analysts said.    U.S. House majority leader Thomas Foley, a WashingtonDemocrat, yesterday predicted during a visit here that theGephardt provision will be approved by the House when tradelegislation is taken up later this month.    Senior Japanese officials do not seem to perceive thevolatility of the situation in the U.S., Where Congress isincreasingly unpredictable, he said.    "The purpose of this trip is to emphasise the fact thatpatience is beginning to be very much frayed in Washington. Icannot emphasise that enough," Lyng said.    In talks with Japanese Agriculture Minister Mutsuki Katoyesterday, Lyng and Trade representative Clayton Yeutter askedJapan to begin negotiations on its rice policy and end importquotas on beef and citrus.    Lyng said he was disappointed Kato rejected the U.S.Request but hoped it would not lead to a protectionist responsein Congress, where legislation on rice retaliation has beenintroduced in both the House and Senate.    Lyng said the U.S. Is dependent on Japan as a market forexports because Japan has been the largest buyer of U.S. Farmproducts since 1964, especially grains.    He said the U.S. Understands Japan, with a limited landarea, is concerned about maintaining some level ofself-sufficiency in food for national security reasons.    But he argued the freeing of farm product imports would notnecessarily weaken Japanese agriculture.    Lyng pledged the U.S. Will never again embargo shipments offarm products as it did in 1973. REUTER
WORLD BANK SUGGESTS MORE OPEN ECONOMY FOR INDIA The World Bank has suggested Indiashould move to a more open economy by gradually removing mostgovernment controls on industry and adopting a liberal externaltrade policy with reduced levels of protection.    A confidential "executive summary" of a draft Bank report onthe Indian economy was made available to Reuters. It suggestsliberalisation as part of a package of reforms to boost exportsof Indian goods by making them more competitive.    The summary said, "These reforms would result in (domestic)prices much more in line with world prices than is true today,and in a greater degree of import competition and exportrivalry than the nation has ever seen."    The summary said foreign trade must play a key role inIndia's transition towards a more dynamic economy. Liberalimports of capital goods would help modernise the economy andexpose Indian producers to foreign competition. Larger exportswould provide the foreign exchange for imports.    "The main guideline is unambiguously to abandon the presentprinciple of unlimited protection for all indigenouslyavailable products and to recognise the role of actual orpotential competition from imports as a source of discipline onthe prices and costs of public and private sector domesticmanufacturers," the summary said.    An Indian official told Reuters the government wasdiscussing the report with the Bank. A final report with somechanges was likely to be ready by May, but he declined to givefurther details.    The Bank and industrialised nations will discuss the Bank'sfinal report at a meeting in Paris on June 22 and 23 to discussaid for India in the 1987/88 year starting in June.    The summary said India's gross domestic product (gdp) grewat an average five pct in Indian fiscal years 1985/86 and1986/87, which ended in March.    It said investment was being sustained at nearly 25 pct ofgdp. Almost 94 pct of the investment was being financed bynational savings, mainly from the private sector.    India's trade deficit is officially said to have narrowedto 5.6 billion dlrs in 1986/87 ended March, from a record 6.96billion dlrs in 1985/86. The current account deficit fell to2.4 billion dlrs in 1986/87 from 2.88 billion in 1985/86.    But the summary said the improvement was largely due tolower prices of crude oil, petroleum products and fertiliserswhich make up the bulk of India's import bill.    India was able to save about 2.6 billion dlrs in foreignexchange in 1986/87 due to lower prices of those products, thesummary said.    The Bank's summary said there was little room forcomplacency in the balance of payments position.    It said that despite a lower trade deficit in 1986/87,Indian foreign exchange reserves fell by 240 mln dlrs.    Real export growth would need to average at least 6.1 pct ayear in value terms in the coming years to maintain a viablebalance of payments, the summary said.    It did not explicitly suggest the rupee should be devalued.India "might have to reaffirm the commitment to exporting whileundertaking some dramatic changes in general incentives thatinvolve some political costs," it said.    "An example of such a policy would be the adoption of anexchange rate regime that maintained exporters' profitability,"the summary said.    It said such an approach had been successful in countriessuch as South Korea, Colombia and Turkey. It would maintain thecompetitiveness of Indian exports and simultaneously reduceimport pressures.    Earlier this year, the Indian government denied that theWorld Bank asked it to devalue the Indian rupee to boostexports. REUTER
BALDRIGE PRAISES NEW SOUTH KOREAN TRADE POLICIES U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrigepraised South Korea's new surplus-cutting trade policies butwarned of possible protectionist retaliation if Seoul's marketliberalisation efforts falter or fail.    In a press conference after talks with South Koreanleaders, Baldrige called the government's announced intentionto regulate exports and boost imports "a very, very importantstep, the right direction for the Korean government to take."    The government adopted the new policies last week in thehope of heading off a trade war with the U.S.    Baldrige said the policies "showed an understanding of thefact that this country cannot go on indefinitely growing byexports alone."    "There has to be enough of a change so that domestic growthbegins to take more of the load," he said.    South Korea had a 7.2 billion dlr trade surplus withWashington in 1986, thanks largely to booming sales of cars andconsumer electronic goods. It racked up another 1.4 billiondlrs in surplus in the first quarter of this year.    Baldrige said Seoul's package of measures was "broad enoughand comprehensive enough so that ... Actions can be taken forliberalising imports (and) increasing the domestic economy, ifthe government is willing to follow through."    "We will be watching the implementation of this new policydirection very closely," he said. "Because of the protectionismgrowing in the U.S., We see a real problem if Korea does notkeep on the same path ... Of steadily increasingliberalisation.... If that should falter or fail or turnbackward, I'm as sure as I'm standing here that we'd seeprotectionist movement in the U.S."    Baldrige said he and South Korean Trade Minister RhaWoong-bae spent much time discussing trade problems in specificproduct categories.    These included service industries, which he said were stilltoo much of a closed sector in South Korea, and computers andcars. Baldrige said he urged speedy action on removing thetariffs and taxes on imported U.S. Cars which can make themsell for up to three times their American prices.    "We want to stop that. With this sort of thing, there'sgoing to be trouble somewhere down the road," he said. "We arejust pointing this out."    Asked if Seoul's measures could succeed without arevaluation of the won, which Washington has been urging formonths, Baldrige declined to comment. "We don't have any targetfor any particular currency, but we do feel that currenciesaround the world, if we are going to be successful as a worldeconomy, have to reflect the fundamentals of the variouseconomies involved," he said.    Baldrige said he had agreed to Rha's proposal forcooperation on forming U.S.-South Korean joint ventures inthird countries. The American government would be pleased toencourage U.S. Firms to get involved, he added.    Commenting on President Reagan's decision to increasetariffs on certain Japanese imports to the U.S., Baldrige saidWashington's trade problems with Japan were not comparable toits difficulties with South Korea.    "I think the attitude in Korea is both reasonable and fair,"he said. "It's a firm attitude. We don't get anything fornothing or just by asking for it.    "But our negotiations are friendly and reasonable and theyusually end up with something good happening at the end thatboth countries live up to." REUTER
NORTH KOREA PLANS TO EXPAND TRADE, OUTPUT North Korea unveiled plans to boostindustrial and agricultural production sharply over the nextseven years and to greatly expand its foreign trade.    Prime Minister Li Gun-mo told the eighth Supreme People'sAssembly in Pyongyang that North Korea intends to increaseinternational trade by 220 pct in the period 1987/93, grossindustrial output by 90 pct and agricultural production by 40pct, according to the North Korean Central News Agency,monitored here. REUTER
NORTH KOREA PLANS TO EXPAND OUTPUT AND TRADE North Korea unveiled plans to boostindustrial and agricultural production over the next sevenyears and to greatly expand trade with other nations, theofficial North Korean Central News Agency, monitored in Tokyo,reported.    Prime Minister Li Gun-mo told the eighth Supreme People'sAssembly in Pyongyang agricultural production will rise 1.4times in the period of the new seven-year plan, the agencysaid.    "For a more satisfactory solution of the problem of food,clothing and housing for the people, a 15 mln tonne target ofgrain will be hit...And 1.5 billion metres of textiles will beproduced annually," he said.    Annual output of non-ferrous metals will be lifted to morethan 1.7 mln tonnes in the seven year plan, the agency quotedLi as saying.    During the previous seven-year plan North Korea achievedannual output of 10 mln tonnes of grain. Chemical fertilizerproduction hit an annual target of five mln tonnes. He did notprovide any other figures. REUTER
BRITAIN CALLS FOR FIGHT AGAINST PROTECTIONISM British Foreign Secretary Sir GeoffreyHowe called on industrial and developing countries to combattrade protectionism and remove barriers which impede freetrading in agricultural products.    Howe said in an address to the annual meeting of the U.N.Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP)that success in fighting protectionism hinges on the currentUruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.    He said Britain is committed to resisting and combattingprotectionism because free trade is vital to Britain where 30pct of the gnp comes from trade in goods and services.    Howe urged developing countries to open up their markets,remove measures distorting free trade in services and provideprotection for intellectual property rights.    He said industrial nations should also adopt macro-economicpolicies which help reduce trade imbalances and promote stablecurrency relationships.    Howe said the agricultural industry, plagued by surplusesand falling commodity prices in recent years, is oversubsidised and over protected. But the problem of farmsurpluses must be tackled despite the fact that it ispolitically difficult for any government to reverse the trendof growing farm subsidies.    "This problem of over-subsidisation and over-protection ofagriculture will dog us in the years ahead and it will need thesustained application of all our energy and our imagination tofind solutions," Howe said. REUTER
TAIWAN PROPOSES TO INVEST ONE BILLION DLRS IN U.S. Taiwan's Economic Ministry has approvedan ambitious proposal calling for a one billion U.S. Dollarinvestment by private and public companies in the United Statesover the next five years, ministry officials said.    John Ni, director of the Ministry's Industrial Developmentand Investment Centre (IDIC), said under the IDIC proposal,Taiwanese firms would be encouraged to set up factories andinvest in property and securities markets in the U.S..    Taiwan's 1986 investment in the U.S. Totalled 46 mln U.S.Dlrs, official statistics show.    The investment was mainly in the electronics, food, serviceand trading sectors.    The new proposal, approved by Economic Minister Lee Ta-haiyesterday, calls for investment of 80 mln U.S. Dlrs in 1987,120 mln in 1988, 160 mln in 1989, 240 mln in 1990 and 400 mlnin 1991, he told Reuters.    It will be discussed soon by officials of the FinanceMinistry, the Central Bank and the Council for EconomicPlanning and Development before being submitted to the cabinetfor final approval, he said.    "This is the first ambitious proposal with governmentinitiatives to encourage our businessmen to invest in America,"Lee said.    He said government incentives to prospective Taiwaneseinvestors would include bank loans and a five-year income taxholiday. Applications for investing in the U.S. Would also besimplified.    A ministry spokesman told reporters the proposed investmentwould be helpful in creating job opportunities for Americansand avoiding U.S. Import quotas or restrictions on Taiwaneseproducts.    The plan will also help reduce Taiwan's trade surplus withthe U.S., Which rose to a record 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs in1986, up from 10.2 billion in 1985, the spokesman said.    The rising surplus has enabled Taiwan to accumulate some 54billion U.S. Dlrs in foreign exchange reserves.    Economists described the proposal as a significant step bythe government to head off U.S. Protectionism.    "Time is running out for us. Taiwan has lagged far behindJapan and South Korea in encouraging its businessmen to investabroad," said Hou Chia-chi, economics professor at SoochowUniversity. REUTER
BALDRIGE ASSURES CHINA ON TRADE AND TECHNOLOGY U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrigesaid U.S. Sales of high technology to China are rising despitePeking's complaints they are being restricted.    He told reporters at the airport on arriving here for talksthat technology transfers to China had increased every year andwould continue to do so.    The official Peking Review yesterday accused the UnitedStates of delaying approval on high-technology sales to China.    Last year, Washington approved only 60 pct of the exportsChina applied for, the magazine said.    "The COCOM-listed kind of export controls are just afraction of the technology that the U.S. Is transferring (toChina) by other means, such as joint ventures," Baldrige said.    COCOM is the Western coordinating committee formed afterWorld War Two to limit the export of advanced technology toCommunist nations.    Baldrige said he was sure U.S. Firms could compete againstfirms from other countries for high technology sales.    He added that protectionism would hurt the economies oftrading nations and said the Reagan Administration would fightprotectionist legislation in the U.S. Congress.    Baldrige and China's Foreign Trade Minister Zheng Tuobinwill act as chairmen of the fifth session of a commission oncommerce and trade that will review bilateral trade relations.    A U.S. Official said other issues to be raised duringBaldrige's talks are trade deficits, which each country says ithas with the other, and the problems facing U.S. Companiesinvesting in China. Reuter
GATT TO PROBE JAPAN'S FARM IMPORT RESTRICTIONS The General Agreement on Tariffs andTrade (GATT) will begin a probe on May 7-8 on the legality ofJapanese import restrictions on 12 farm products, AgricultureMinistry officials said.    The investigation, which will take place in Geneva, followsa U.S. Complaint last year that the restrictions violated GATTrules prohibiting import quotas.    The products involved include fruit juice, peanuts andtomato juice. Reuter
JAPAN CONSIDERING BUYING U.S. SUPERCOMPUTERS The Japanese government is consideringbuying U.S.-made supercomputers to help defuse mounting tradefriction between the two countries, Trade Minister HajimeTamura was quoting as saying.    Japanese officials said Tamura told visiting U.S. TradeRepresentative Clayton Yeutter that the government may setaside money for the purchase of the supercomputers in asupplementary budget to be drawn up later this year.    But he emphasised that the matter was still under study andthat no firm decision had been made.    Tamura urged Yeutter to lift the trade sanctions imposedagainst Japan and argued that the yen's rapid rise was alreadyworking to correct the country's trade imbalance.    But, according to Japanese officials, Yeutter held outlittle hope that the American trade sanctions would be liftedsoon and said the United States needed action from Japan toboost its domestic demand and imports, not just words.    In order to lift the tariffs imposed on 300 mln dlrs worthof Japanese exports last Friday, the U.S. Needs proof that itsjoint computer chip pact with Japan is working. And that willtake time, Yeutter was quoted as telling Tamura. REUTER
JAPAN SEES NEED TO ACT QUICKLY ON TRADE CRISIS Japan is faced with a mounting crisisover its huge trade surplus and recognizes that it must actmore quickly to refocus its export driven economy, a seniorForeign Ministry official said.    "The sense of crisis among the Japanese public as well asthe government is increasing," Deputy Director General HiroshiHirabayashi told reporters. "The need to accelerate the efforts(to restructure the economy) is well recognized."    Hirabayashi said that gradual progress had been made torefocus the Japanese economy, but admitted that it might notseem all that spectacular to foreign observers.    Difficulties had been encountered in implementing theso-called Maekawa report since it was unveiled a year ago, hesaid. But, he added, foreign governments should appreciate theefforts that have been made.    The report, named for its principal author, former Bank ofJapan governor Haruo Maekawa, called for a shift in Japan'seconomy away from its dependence on exports for growth. TheJapanese cabinet today reviewed progress made since itsrelease.    According to Hirabayashi, Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasonetold his fellow ministers that Japan must follow the directionset out by Maekawa and urged them to make efforts to achieveit.    Foreign Minister Tadashi Kuranari added that not enough hadbeen done to publicize the action Japan was taking to refocusits economy.    Listing some of those actions, Hirabayashi said imports ofmanufactured goods have increased, interest rates have fallen,and coal, steel and non-ferrous metal output have been reduced.    He expressed hope that Japan will act more quickly in thefuture to implement the report and scoffed at a suggestion thatit would take ten years for Maekawa's goals to be met.    "It will not take very much time to fulfill the (goals) setout by the Maekawa report," he said. REUTER
SENATE PREPARING FOR NEW U.S. BUDGET BATTLE Congress returned from its Easterrecess ready for the annual Spring budget battle that promisesto be a partisan dispute.    The budget fight pitting Democrats against President Reaganand Republicans is expected to get underway this week in theSenate late this week and last at least another week. It istaking on new prominence because of current trade woes.    That is because the budget problems and its associated hugedeficits are said to be at the root of related internationaltrade friction currently worrying financiers.    As the dollar slides downward on global markets and stockexchanges gyrate wildly, the trade dispute involving the UnitedStates and Japan once again is spreading fears of a major tradewar between the two trading giants for the first time sinceWorld War II.    Ostensibly that dispute is over U.S. charges that Japan isrefusing to open its markets to semi-conductor chips and theresulting U.S. tariffs doubling prices of Japanese televisionsand small computers.    Behind the elements of a brewing trade war which neitherside wants, is the dilemma of the U.S. budget and its deficit.    Some analysts say the financial markets may be waking up tothe economic realities that the huge debt cannot continue togrow without repercussions.    A large portion of the U.S. debt has been financed byforeigners from their accumulated trade surpluses. But if theywithdraw this support the result can only be further problems,including higher interest rates for Americans.    In a nutshell, the U.S. budget process has now moved to theshowdown stages in Congress. Reagan's own trillion dollarspending budget for the government year 1988, starting Oct. 1,was trounced badly in the House on April 9.    The Senate takes up a plan similar to one that passed theHouse, calling for slashing the deficit from its estimated 171billion dlr level next year to about 134 billion dlrs, throughdefense and domestic spending cuts and about 18.5 billion dlrsin new, unspecified, taxes. As the Senate prepares to take upits own budget plan, majority Democrats predict there will bepassage of a bill, only after a protracted partisan battle.    In the House, not one Republican voted for the budget,which passed by 230 to 192. In the Senate, none of Reagan'sRepublicans voted for the budget as it passed out of the SenateBudget Committee for full Senate consideration.    A key Senate Budget Committee source told Reuters hebelieves this very unusual unanimous opposition was by designamong congressional Republicans, perhaps with the tacitapproval of the White House.    "Republicans want Democrats to take the heat for any taxhikes and defense cuts," he said.    In the coming weeks, the source said, Democrats will pressfor a bipartisan budget and seek a negotiated budget withReagan -- who already is opposed to the idea. But "it is notclear how the Republicans will act," he added.    He said Republicans may propose their own plan for lowertaxes and more defense spending, which they did not offer afterReagan's budget was clobbered in an early vote in the House.     When Reagan entered the White House in 1981, he inheritedwhat was labelled a huge deficit from Jimmy Carter that woundup to be nearly 79 billion dlrs that year.    Despite Reagan's promise to balance the budget by 1983,critics note that his administration's record of accumulateddebt is estimated over one trillion dlrs, or 1,100 billiondlrs.    That is money the government must borrow, and pay back, andmany analysts say it is what kept the dollar high and causedthe worst U.S. trade deficit ever.     Last year the United States bought goods from the worldworth 169.8 billion dlrs more than what it sold, includingpurchases of 58.6 billion dlrs in Japanese goods.    While Congress is trying to attack the trade deficit on onefront through a get-tough trade bill promising retaliatorymeasures unless all markets are opened, its success so faragainst the budget deficit has been marked by limited progress.    Congress, which controls the pursestrings, has put thedeficit on a downward path from its record high of 220.7billion dlrs accumulated in fiscal 1986, which ended Sept. 30.    Because of the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings balanced budget lawenacted in late 1985, there has been pressure on Congress to domore than talk about deficits.    That law, named after Republican Senators Phil Gramm ofTexas, Warren Rudman of New Hampshire and Democrat ErnestHollings of South Carolina, calls for a balanced budget by 1991through a series of set deficit targets that Congress must meet.    The law has been followed, even though an enforcementmechanism to mandate automatic across-the-board cuts ifCongress misses its goal was stricken by the Supreme Court.    The legislators have followed the targets -- on paper. Butin reality, the goal has actually been missed. For example,Congress last year approved legislation to meet the 1987 targetof a 144 billion dlr deficit. But even after approving thenumbers, the deficit for 1987 is estimated at over 170 billiondlrs -- far off the target.    This year the target is 108 billion dlrs and that goal isexpected to be missed widely. Reuter
JAPAN AGENCY URGES WATCH ON YEN RISE EFFECTS Japan should look out for possibleeffects of the yen's recent sharp rise on Japan's economy asgrowth remains slow, the government's Economic Planning Agencysaid in a monthly report submitted to cabinet ministers.    EPA officials told reporters the underlying trend of theeconomy is firm but growth is slow due to sluggish exports.    Customs-cleared exports by volume fell 4.9 pctmonth-on-month in February after a 2.8 pct fall in March.    The government must take adequate economic measures toexpand domestic demand and stabilise exchange rates in a bid toensure sustained econonic growth, the report said.    The report made a special reference to the yen's renewedrise and its effect on the economy, the officials said, addingthe agency's judgement of current economic conditions has notchanged since last month.    The EPA said last month Japan's economy is beginning toshow signs of bottoming out, conditional upon exchange rates.    The dollar fell below 139 yen in early trading today - apost-war low. REUTER
TAIWAN WINS REVISED TEXTILE ACCORD FROM U.S. Taiwan and the U.S. Have revised andextended their textile export agreement after negotiations inWashington this week, a spokesman for the Taiwan TextileFederation said.    Charles Chen told Reuters the original three year accordhas been extended by one year to the end of 1989. The U.S. Hasagreed to raise the limit on annual growth of Taiwan's textileand apparel exports to one pct from 0.5 pct for calendar 1989,he said. "The new accord is more fair and gives breathing spaceto our textile makers (so they can) diversify their exports toother nations," he added.    Chen said the revised agreement puts Taiwan on similartextile exporting terms to Hong Kong and South Korea. Butdespite the changes, Taiwanese firms have lost orders to rivalsin Hong Kong and South Korea because of the strong Taiwandollar, he said. The Taiwan currency has risen 17 pct againstthe U.S. Dollar since September 1985 while the Korean won roseby some six pct and the Hong Kong dollar was stable.    Taiwan's textile exports to the U.S. Amounted to 2.8billion U.S. Dlrs last year out of total exports to the U.S. Of7.8 billion. Textile exports are expected to remain the samethis year, Chen said. REUTER
JAPAN RULING PARTY PREPARES FINAL ECONOMIC PACKAGE Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party(LDP) drew up a final plan to expand domestic demand and boostimports in time for Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's visit toWashington next week, LDP officials said.    The plan calls for additional fiscal measures worth morethan 5,000 billion yen, a large-scale supplementary budget forthe current fiscal year started April 1, and concentration ofmore than 80 pct of the annual public works budget in the firsthalf of the year, they said.    Nakasone will explain the measures to U.S. Officials duringhis visit to Washington starting April 29.    The LDP plan will be the basis for a government package ofpump-priming measures expected to be unveiled in late May.    The LDP said Japan should do more to reduce its tradesurplus. Its plan is expected to help increase economic growthled by domestic demand, officials said.    The government was also urged to review the ceiling onbudgetary requests for investment purposes in 1988/89. Thegovernment has imposed a five pct cut in investment outlays inthe past five years in line with Nakasone's avowed policy offiscal reforms.    The plan called on Japan to promote government purchases offoreign goods and private sector imports of manufactured goodsby improving import financing, and to make clear officialprocurement procedures for foreign supercomputers.    The LDP also said Japan should contribute further tosociety at large through measures such as doubling its officialdevelopment assistance to 7.6 billion dlrs in five years or soinstead of seven years as the government had originallypromised.    The government was urged to work out a program to recyclefunds from Japan's trade surpluses to debt-ridden countries.    The officials said the funds to be recycled would includethose from the private sector and others provided through thegovernment Export-Import Bank of Japan and Japan's OverseasEconomic Cooperation Fund.    The plan also calls for the government to take steps tohelp the development of African and other less developednations.    The LDP called for adequate and flexible management ofmonetary policy, such as a cut in interest rates on depositswith the Finance Ministry's Trust Fund, and a tax cut topromote plant and equipment investment. REUTER
U.S., JAPAN TRADE TIES REMAIN HOSTILE The visit this week by a specialJapanese envoy has done little to defuse Japan's tradefrictions with the United States, U.S. and congressionalleaders say.    White House and congressional leaders took a wait-and-seestance, after a series of meetings with former Japanese ForeignMinister Shintaro Abe, who was here paving the way for theApril 29-May 2 visit of Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone.    They are withholding judgment until Nakasone's visit, withone senator saying Japan had promised to stimulate its economyand open its markets to foreign goods in the past, but it wastime now for action.    The U.S. trade deficit last year was a record 169.8 billiondlrs, with more than one-third of it in trade with Japan.    Congress is ready to approve tough trade legislation to tryto turn around the deficit, which has cost millions of U.S.jobs and closed thousands of factories.    Much of the anger has been directed at Japan.    U.S.-Japan trade friction was further fueled by PresidentReagan's April 17 decision to impose 100 pct tariffs on 300 mlndlrs worth of Japanese goods in retaliation for unfairpractices in semiconductor trade.    Reagan said he imposed the tariffs on personal computers,television sets and hand tools because Japan failed to keep anagreement to end dumping semiconductors in world markets atless than cost and to open its home market to U.S. products.     Abe had asked Reagan to end the tariffs quickly, but U.S.officials said the curbs would not be dropped until Japan hadshown it was honoring the pact, which could take severalmonths.    White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater, asked if Nakasone'svisit might help to defuse trade tensions, said "whetherprogress can be made depends on how you want to measure it."    He added, "I would expect progress to be made. If you wantto measure that in terms of lifting the sanctions, that's moredoubtful."    Congressmen were equally skeptical.    Abe met Senate and Democratic leaders active in tradelegislation, telling them of Japan's plan to spur domesticspending by 34 billion dlrs and open its markets to a widerange of goods, including supercomputers and farm products.    Sen. John Danforth, a Missouri Republican, said after themeeting, "We have heard promises in the past, but the questionnow is whether there will be real action."    Abe also met House leaders pressing for a tough trade bill,including Congressman Richard Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat.    Gephardt is sponsoring legislation to penalize nations withlarge deficits and which are guilty of unfair trade practices.    Gephardt's legislation would hit Japan, as well as Taiwan,South Korea, and West Germany. The bill is expected to pass theHouse next week - coinciding with Nakasone's visit - but itsfate in the more moderate Senate is uncertain. A bipartisangroup of senators, however, told Nakasone in a letter releasedas Abe was holding Senate meetings, that fresh Japanese-U.S.trade strife would erupt if Japan's markets were not soonopened to American goods.    The signers included Democratic leader Robert Byrd of WestVirginia, Republican leader Robert Dole of Kansas and othersranging from moderate to hardline on trade issues.    They said in the letter there was growing U.S. sentimentthat Japan was fighting opening its markets and "evidence to thecontrary is necessary to combat this perception, or it islikley that additional efforts will be attempted to close offthe American market to Japanese goods.   Reuter
CHINA TEXTILE EXPORTS RECORD HIGH IN 1ST QUARTER China's textile exports in the firstquarter reached a record 2.2 billion dlrs, an increase of 49pct on the year-earlier period, the People's Daily said.    Its overseas edition gave no country breakdown. The U.S. Isone of China's largest markets for textiles.    U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige told a pressconference that Chinese textile and apparel exports to the U.S.In 1986 rose 65 pct in value from the 1985 level, a rate ofgrowth that "is not sustainable nor equitable to our other majorforeign suppliers." China is now the United States' largesttextile supplier, he said.    Baldrige declined to say what would be an acceptable growthrate for Chinese textile exports. Negotiations on the nextChina-U.S. Textile agreement are due to begin in May, he said.    "There clearly has to be a limit," he said. "Our economy canonly absorb so much textiles. It is in both of our interests toreach a satisfactory conclusion. Without an agreement, we wouldhave a chaotic situation." Reuter
SWISS GROWTH SEEN SLOWING THIS YEAR AND NEXT The growth of the Swisseconomy will likely slow to 2.2 pct this year and 1.9 pct in1988 after reaching 2.8 pct last year, according to a study bya group at Basle University's Institute of Applied Economics.    It blamed the expected slowdown partly on a disappointingoutlook for exports caused by the weaker dollar. Exports wouldlikely grow by 2.8 pct this year and by 3.0 pct in 1988, after3.0 pct in 1986, the group predicted.    Final domestic demand will also fall back, to a likely 3.0pct this year and 2.3 pct next, after 4.1 pct in 1986. However,the domestic picture will likely be mixed.    The study said investment in plant and equipment wouldcontinue to be the main motor for the growth in domesticdemand, although it was unlikely to grow as fast as last year's7.4 pct, rising this year by 4.5 pct and by 2.8 pct in 1988.    While the growth in private consumption is expected to fallback to 2.5 pct this year and 2.1 pct in 1988 from last year's3.1 pct, public consumption spending will likely grow by 1.9pct in 1987 and 2.0 pct next year, after 1.5 pct in 1986.    Consumer prices were seen rising by 1.7 pct this year and2.4 pct in 1988, after just 0.8 pct in 1986. Unemploymentshould fall back to 0.7 pct from last year's 0.8 pct. REUTER
ZIMBABWE BANKING CORP URGES POLICY REFORM A range of substantial policyinitiatives need to be implemented to shift resources fromconsumption to production in the Zimbabwe economy, says theZimbabwe Banking Corporation (ZBC) in its quarterly economicreview.    The state owned banking group says although Zimbabwe'sbalance of payments improved significantly last year theunderlying position deteriorated. Last year's improved tradesurplus was partly the result of sales of stockpiled gold andcontinued import restraint.    It says debt service charges are projected to exceed 35 pctof exports in 1987 and warns against squeezing imports further.    ZBC says mining industry import quotas for the first sixmonths of 1987 have been halved and those for manufacturingindustry cut by a third.    It contrasts the performance of manufacturing industry in1967 to 1974, with that since independence in 1980. Industrialproduction almost doubled between 1967 and 1974, when foreigncurrency allocations almost trebled in real terms.    Since 1980, import allocations have been cut 45 pct and theZimbabwe dollar has depreciated by more than 60 pct. As aresult the bank says the external purchasing power of foreigncurrency allocations is currently only 20 pct of its 1980levels. REUTER
BAKER SAYS G-7 WANTS TO HALT DOLLAR FALL Treasury Secretary James Baker saidthe Group of Seven leading industrial nations is fullycommitted to halting a further decline in the dollar.    "Let me emphasize that all seven major industrial nationsremain fully committed to strengthening policy coordination,promoting growth and cooperating to foster stability ofexchange rates," he told the American Enterprise Institute.    "We all believe a further decline of the dollar could becounter productive to our efforts (to promote growth)," he said.    Baker also said that after meeting Japanese special envyShintaro Abe, "it's clear that Japan intends to take strongsteps to stimulate its economy to meet its committments underthe Louvre Accord."    Baker said in the past two years he has worked to promotegreater coordination of economic policies and importantprogress has been made.    "Substantial exchange rate adjustments have also beenaccomplished over the past two years so that today we arebetter positioned to promote growth and reduce externalimbalances," he said.    Baker pointed out that in February the seven agreed tofoster stable exchange rates and those commitments wererenewed recently.     In a speech largely devoted to discussing trade andcompetitiveness, Baker again warned of the dangers ofprotectionist trade legislation, saying it would harm the U.S.standard of living.    Baker stressed adminstration trade policy sought to removeforeign barriers to trade and via forthcoming GATT talks willfocus on agriculture, services and intellectual property.    The Treasury Secretary said that as well as trade issues hehad to focus on macroeconomic issues as well which encompassthe trade picture.    "The world economy today is really one constantly flowingcircle of capital and goods. Trade accounts catch and measurethat flow at only one spot on the circle," he said. Reuter
SOVIETS SAY 1987 ECONOMIC RESULTS UNSATISFACTORY The Soviet government said economicresults achieved in the first three months of the year wereunsatisfactory, the official news agency Tass said.    Soviet industrial production from January to March grew by2.5 per cent compared with the same period last year, but fellshort of its target by 0.8 percent, official statistics showed.    "The Council of Ministers (government) emphasised that theresults did not meet the Communist Party's exacting demands forthe radical reconstruction of the economy," Tass said. "The firstquarter economic results were deemed unsatisfactory."    The government said poor economic results last January,when industrial production was 0.1 lower than in January 1986,had been overcome to a considerable extent in March, but thenegative effects had not been completely eliminated.     It singled out failings in the engineering, chemical andtimber industries, as well as light industry.    Growth in the machine-building sector, a priority inKremlin plans for economic renewal, also fell short of targetby 4.2 per cent, with below-level output in nearly all branchesat a cost of 723 million roubles (1.08 billion dollars) inundelivered products.    The sales volume of consumer goods fell 2.7 per cent shortof planned growth, with a resulting decline in income to thestate, the figures showed.    Foreign trade turnover totalled 27.5 billion roubles (41.25billion dollars), or 4.8 billion roubles (7.2 billion dollars)less than in the same period last year.    The power industry, however, performed well. Output of oil,electricity, gas and coal were all above plan. Reuter
BRAZIL TRADE SURPLUS FALLS SHARPLY IN MARCH Brazil's trade surplus in Marchtotalled 136 mln dlrs, down from 1.13 billion dlrs in the samemonth last year, the official Banco do Brasil announced.    In a news conference, the director of the bank's ForeignTrade Department (Cacex), Roberto Fendt, attributed March's weak performance to labour strikes.    March exports totalled 1.43 billion dlrs, against 1.53billion dlrs in February, and 2.16 billion dlrs in March 1986.    March imports amounted to 1.29 billion dlrs compared to1.27 billion dlrs in February and 1.02 billion dlrs in March1986.    Fendt said coffee earnings were up to 220 mln dlrs in Marchfrom 110 mln dlrs in February, while oil derivatives were downto 54 mln dlrs from 58 mln dlrs in February.    He said that although the March results were considerablylower than the same month last year, the government's target ofan eight billion dlr surplus for 1987 should be achieved. TheJanuary-March trade surplus totalled 526 mln dlrs, below thesame period last year, which reached 2.46 billion dlrs.    Asked to explain the reason for his optimism, Fendt saidthe trade surplus should reach one billion dlrs in each of thelast six months of the year.    Even though results in the exports of steel, shoes andfrozen concentrated orange juice were weaker compared toFebruary, Fendt said this was not an indication that the UnitedStates was retaliating on account of its dispute with Brazil inthe issue of informatics.    For the next three months, Fendt estimated a monthly tradesurplus of 400 mln dlrs, for an overall surplus of 1.2 billiondlrs in the April-May-June period. Reuter
BRAZIL TRADE SURPLUS FALLS SHARPLY IN MARCH Brazil's trade surplus in Marchtotalled only 136 mln dlrs compared to 1.13 billion dlrs in thesame month last year, director of the Banco do Brasil's ForeignTrade Department (Cacex) Roberto Fendt said.    In a news conference, Fendt attributed the weak performancein the March trade balance to labour strikes in the country.March exports totalled 1.43 billion dlrs, against 1.53 billiondlrs in February, and 2.16 billion dlrs in March 1986.    March imports amounted to 1.29 billion dlrs compared to1.27 billion dlrs in February and 1.02 billion dlrs in March1986.    Fendt said that coffee earnings rose to 220 mln dlrs inMarch from 110 mln dlrs in February while oil derivatives weredown to 54 mln dlrs from 58 mln dlrs in February.    He said that although the March results were considerablylower than the same month last year, the government's target ofan eight billion dlr surplus for 1987 should be achieved. TheJanuary-March trade surplus totalled 526 mln dlrs, well below asimilar period last year, which reached 2.46 billion dlrs.    Asked to explain the reason for his optimism, Fendt saidthey were estimating that in each of the last six months of theyear the trade surplus would amount one billion dlrs. Reuter
ECUADOR ECONOMY SEEN CONTRACTING IN 1987 The Ecuadorean economy, struck by anearthquake last month, will contract an estimated four pct in1987 and its crude oil output will drop by 42 pct, thegovernment's national development council (Conade) said.    A Conade report, dated April 21 and obtained, said that thecountry's gross domestic product (gdp) would fall by anestimated four pct compared to 1.5 pct growth last year. Conadefunctions as the country's main planning institution.    Crude output will fall to 61.2 mln barrels in 1987 from105.6 mln in 1986, Conade said. It forecast exports of 22.9 mlnof crude and derivatives against 63.3 mln last year.    The March five earthquake killed up to 1,000 people andcaused an estimated one billion dlrs in damage. It paralyzedEcuador's crude output because it ruptured the country's mainpipeline from Lago Agrio, at the heart of jungle oilfields, tothe Pacific Ocean port of Balao.    It will take until at least end-July to repair the line andreturn output to normal levels, oil officials said. Ecuadoroutput was about 250,000 barrels per day before the tremor.    Conade forecast total 1987 exports of 1.77 billion dlrs,572 mln dlrs of which would be oil and derivatives.    Imports were forecast at 1.70 billion dlrs. Total 1986exports were 2.18 billion dlrs, of which 979 mln dlrs werecrude and derivatives, with total imports 1.66 billion dlrs.    Conade predicted that payments on Ecuador's 8.16 billiondlrs foreign debt will be limited to 947 mln dlrs this yearagainst 1.489 billion dlrs last year. Conade's projectedceiling on payments is not legally binding.    The current account balance of payments deficit was seen at934 mln dlrs in 1987. It was 696 mln dlrs in 1986. Reuter
NAKASONE ADVISED TO EXPAND PURCHASES ABROAD Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone wasadvised to work out a plan for his government to buy more thanone billion dlrs worth of foreign industrial products as partof efforts to defuse Japan's trade frictions with the UnitedStates, officials said.    Former Foreign Minister Shintaro Abe made therecommendation at a meeting with Nakasone soon after returningfrom a U.S. Visit designed to pave the way for the primeminister's visit to Washington starting next Wednesday.    Abe met President Ronald Reagan and U.S. Congressionalleaders during his visit.    It was not known how Nakasone responded to the suggestion.    It also included increasing the nation's untied loans todeveloping countries to between 25 billion and 30 billion dlrsover the next three years and giving foreign firms greateraccess to a six billion dlr international airport project inwestern Japan, officials said.    Abe called for tax cuts and government funds to be funneledinto public works projects to stimulate domestic demand. Abespoke of the possibility that Nakasone's visit could coincidewith the passage of a protectionist trade bill by the U.S.House of Representatives. REUTER
TOP NATIONS AGREE OVER FARM TRADE ISSUE Ministers from the majortrading nations have for the first time made a concertedcommitment to review the whole distorted structure of worldfarm trade, Canadian Trade Minister Patricia Carney said.    "We think we can get some movement on this," she toldreporters at a briefing following informal talks with the U.S.,Japanese and European Community (EC) trade ministers here.    Canada, strongly supported by Australia, has championed thecause of both developed and developing nations which have seentheir farm trade suffer largely due to a farm subsidy warbetween the United States and the EC.    Japan"s protected agricultural markets have also attractedcriticism.    The issue is of extreme importance to many indebted,developing nations which often rely totally on one or two farmsector exports to sustain their economies but which cannotcompete with the subsidised U.S. And EC products.    "Canada can afford so many billions of dollars (to do so),but many countries cannot," said Carney.    She said the EC had changed its previous unhelpful attitudeand had raised proposals similar to those of Canada under whichto discuss the issue.    Talks will now continue at the Organisation of EconomicCooperation and Development (OECD), which meets next month, andat the series of discussions on a new world trading framework,begun at Punta del Este, Uruguay, last year.    Carney said Japan had also agreed to take a positive rolein the farm talks, and that the United States was willing tosee short-term progress, as long as long-term solutions werenot affected.    Canada"s five point programme demands that farm productprices must reflect open world market prices, that any supportfor farmers incomes should not be linked to productionincentives, that there should be no new farm subsidies, no newfarm import barriers, and that any decisions should beimplemented collectively.    The farm trade problem was almost completely ignored by theindustrialised world until Canada raised it last year at theTokyo summit of seven leading industrial powers.    The distortions created by subsidies and protectionism havecreated some absurd situations.    For example, to protect its farmers the Japanese governmentbuys Canadian wheat and sells it at 10 times the purchase priceto Japanese consumers.    "So we end up borrowing in the Japanese (financial) marketto help pay subsidies to keep our farmers while they make aprofit on our wheat to help pay the price support for theirfarmers," said Carney.    The problem causes pain for many nations and increases thealready dangerously high debts that they owe mainly to U.S.,Japanese and EC banks. REUTER
REAGAN WARNS CONGRESS ON PROTECTIONISM President Reagan warned the U.S.Congress in his weekly radio address against passing what hecalled dangerous, protectionist trade legislation that wouldtie his hands in trade negotiations with Japan and othercountries.    Reagan, who will hold talks with Japanese Prime MinisterYasuhiro Nakasone here this week, said he would lift tariffsimposed last week against some Japanese products as soon asTokyo complied with a U.S.-Japanese pact on semiconductors.    U.S. Officials gave the same message to former JapaneseForeign Minister Shintaro Abe in meetings in Washington lastweek.    In his weekly radio address on Saturday, Reagan said hewould tell Nakasone: "We want to continue to work cooperativelyon trade problems and want very much to lift these traderestrictions as soon as evidence permits.    Reagan said the 100 pct tariffs he imposed on some 300 mlndlrs worth of Japanese goods was a special case of traderetaliation and did not signal a shift in what he called hisstaunch anti-protectionist policies.    "In imposing these tariffs we were just trying to deal witha particular problem, not begin a trade war," he said.    But Congress is ready to approve tough trade legislation totry to turn round the record U.S. Trade deficit, which has costmillions of U.S. Jobs and closed thousands of factories.    A vote on a trade bill sponsored by Congressman RichardGephardt is expected to come during Nakasone"s visit. It wouldpenalise nations with large trade surpluses and which arealleged to use unfair trade practices.    Reagan warned Congress that such action would undercut hisability to negotiate on trade issues with Nakasone and others.    "With my meeting with Prime Minister Nakasone and the Veniceeconomic summit coming up, it"s terribly important not torestrict a president"s options in such trade dealings withforeign governments," he said.    "Unfortunately, some in the Congress are trying to doexactly that," he said.    Reagan said he would keep the American people "informed onthis dangerous legislation because it"s just another form ofprotectionism and I may need your help to stop it." REUTER
TRADE MINISTERS SAY GOVERNMENTS NEED CREDIBILITY Four trade ministers ended aweekend meeting with a frank confession that their governmentsare losing credibility in world financial markets and will notregain it until they back their promises over trade andcurrencies with action.    "Until today we have anounced policies, but when it came toaction required it was done in a way that satisfied nobody,"Japanese Trade Minister Hajime Tamura told a news conference.    "From now on, if a government comes up with a certainpolicy, it must be followed by action," he said following twodays of informal talks with the trade ministers of the UnitedStates, the European Community and Canada in central Japan.    Last week, the dollar fell to a new record low below 140yen, despite statements from the Group of Seven (G-7) leadingindustrial powers that currencies should be stabilised tounderpin world trade.    "We need credibility to gain confidence. When we haveconfidence, then we can have an impact," said Tamura.    His colleagues agreed that when major trade nations foughtover trade issues while calling for each other to honour freetrade rules in general, it was not a sight which inspiredconfidence in the markets.    "The time has come now to act in step with the talk. If youbelong to a club, you have to act in concord with the rules, ifyou want to be credible," said EC external trade chief Willy deClercq. Canadian Trade Minister Patricia Carney also agreed: "Weare meeting in a time of great trade tension. What the worldneeds to see is that we have the political will to deal withthese problems we face."    She said that next month"s meeting of the Organisation ofEconomic Cooperation and Development and the meeting of leadersof the G-7 nations in Venice in the summer would be a forum toshow this will existed.    U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter reminded the newsconference that the results of such high level meetings couldlead to action which would only have an effect on smoothing outworld trade imbalances perhaps years later.    "The media typically has a tendency to evaluate meetingslike this in terms of tangible results. That is not the way itshould be pursued," he said.    "What is achieved in an intangible way almost always exceedswhat is achieved in a tangible way," he said.    Progress in personal contacts and understanding each others"positions and policies was just as important toward reducingtrade tensions, he said.    Tamura read out an agreed summary of the joint talks:    Currency stability was now essential, but currencymovements alone would not correct a U.S. Trade deficit withJapan which hit 58 billion dlrs last year, an 18 billion dlr ECdeficit with Japan in 1986, and a Japanese global trade surplusof almost 90 billion, he said.    Trade retaliation, protectionism, and forcible exportrestraints which lead to a shrinkage in world trade flows weremost dangerous, he said.    The imbalances can only be solved by coordinated policiesover a whole range of fiscal, monetary, trade and industrialmeasures, and in line with a body of internationally agreedrules, he said.    In this regard, the policing role of the Geneva-basedGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade world trade body must bestrengthened, he said.    The ministers reconfirmed their individual promises tosolve the problem. The United States will try to reduce itslarge budget deficit and restore competitiveness within itsindustries.    Japan will introduce early and effective measures to expandits domestic growth and rely less on exports.    The EC must continue efforts for balanced growth andreduced unemployment. All felt satisfied at the new progress inthe Canadian economy. REUTER
G-7 OFFICIALS TO DECIDE ON SUMMIT AGENDA Senior officials from the Group ofSeven (G-7) countries will meet next week to decide an agendafor the body"s June summit scheduled to be held in Venice,Japanese officials said.    The meeting will provide senior government officials withtheir first chance to discuss the recent sharp drop of thedollar, although the main focus of the gathering is longerterm, they said.    Deputy Finance Ministers, including Japanese Vice-FinanceMinister Toyoo Gyohten, will attend. The meeting will be heldin Italy, they said, but gave no other details.    The leaders of the G-7, the United States, Britain, Canada,France, Italy, Japan and West Germany, are expected to discussways of improving economic policy coordination in Venice.    The hope is that increased coordination will help reducethe huge imbalances in world trade and calm volatile currencymarkets. But economists say the strategy has so far not worked.    Japanese officials admitted there is little more they cando on their own to stem the dollar decline, which last week sawthe currency plunge to a post-war low below 140 yen.    The officials said they expected sentiment against thedollar to change soon, once the U.S. Trade deficit starts tofall and the Japanese surplus begins to shrink.    "We have already seen some signs of improvement (in thetrade picture), but the market does not appreciate it yet," onesaid.    Last week"s passage of the Japanese government budget byparliament"s Lower House also paves the way for Tokyo to takeadditional action to stimulate its sagging economy and boostimports, the officials said. REUTER
U.S. MAY TELL JAPAN SANCTIONS CAN END - NY TIMES President Reagan is expected to tellPrime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone this week that the U.S. May beable to lift trade sanctions against Japan by the end of June,the New York Times said.    The newspaper, quoting administration officials, said thatunder such a scenario the President would announce just beforethe June 8-10 economic summit meeting in Venice that he hopedto lift the restrictions on electronics imports by the end ofthe month. Japan, for its part, would have to show that it hadstopped underpricing semiconductors and had widened access inJapan for U.S. Chip producers.    The U.S. Administration imposed 100 pct tariffs on 300 mlndlrs worth of Japanese color television sets, motorised toolsand personal computers on April 17.    Japanese officials have said Nakasone's main demand when hearrives for talks with Reagan on Wednesday would be theimmediate lifting of the tariffs.    But with Congress planning further trade reprisals againstJapanese trade policies, the end-of-June timeframe is seen asthe best Reagan can offer, the Times said. It said some verbalformulation was expected to be found in a communique that wouldallow Nakasone to claim at least a modest victory. REUTER
BANGLADESH PAYMENTS DEFICIT NARROWS IN NOVEMBER Bangladesh's overall balance of paymentsdeficit narrowed to 3.03 mln U.S. Dlrs in November from 8.3 mlnin October and 22.63 mln in November 1985, Central Bankofficials said.    The current account deficit increased to 28.68 mln dlrs inNovember against 10.69 mln in October and 55.19 mln in November1985.    The trade deficit rose to 88 mln dlrs from 36.36 mln inOctober and 86.2 mln in November 1985. REUTER
GERMAN TRADE SURPLUS SHOULD NARROW, BUNDESBANK SAYS Germany's current account and tradesurpluses should narrow sharply in 1987 but they will take along time to get back to normal levels, the Bundesbank said inits 1986 yearly report.    The procedure would be slow as an abrupt turnaround inexternal factors such as oil prices and exchange rates was notexpected. It did not specify what levels it considered normal.    West Germany posted a record trade surplus of 124 billionmarks in 1986, after 86 billion in 1985 and its current accountsurplus widened to 76.50 billion from 44.6 billion.    Signs imports would continue to rise, a factor alreadynoted at the start of 1986, while exports rose only slightly,would lead to a smaller trade surplus, the Bundesbank said.    In real terms, West German imports rose 5.7 pct in 1986while exports only increased by 0.8 pct.    Germany's current account surplus widened to a provisional6.6 billion in February from 4.8 billion in January but wasdown from 6.85 billion posted in February 1986.    The trade surplus in February widened to a provisional 10.4billion marks from 7.2 billion in January and was still abovethe 6.84 billion reached in the same month the year before. REUTER
BALDRIGE SAYS U.S. WANTS JAPAN TRADE PROPOSALS U.S. Secretary of Commerce MalcolmBaldrige said he hopes Japanese Prime Minister YasuhiroNakasone will make specific proposals to ease U.S.-Japan tradefriction at a meeting with President Reagan this week.    He also told reporters he hopes the U.S. Will soon be ableto lift sanctions imposed against Japan for alleged violationsof an accord on semiconductors.    "We have been very specific about our trade problems," hetold a news conference during a stopover in Hong Kong. "I hope(Nakasone) brings some specific answers to the trade problems."    "We want to lift the sanctions as soon as possible," Baldrigesaid.    He said that once the U.S. Determines that Japan is sellingsemiconductors at cost it will be able to lift the 300 mln U.S.Dlrs of duties it imposed on Japanese electronics goods onApril 17.    "We have not seen that yet," he said, adding that it wouldtake about one month to determine whether the allegedviolations of a bilateral semiconductor pact had beendiscontinued.    Baldrige did not say what specific solutions he wanted forU.S.-Japan trade problems.    But the New York Times today quoted administration sourcesas saying that the U.S. May be able to lift trade sanctionsagainst Japan by the end of June.    Japan would have to show that it had stopped underpricingsemiconductors and had widened access in Japan top U.S. Chipproducers.    Baldrige also said that despite the current trade rift, theU.S. And Japan have long had friendly ties that neither sidewants to change.    "We have a very special relationship with Japan. Japan is afriend and our ally," Baldrige said. "Neither one of us wantsthat to change."    He also repeated statements that he did not foresee a tradewar with Japan but that the U.S. Had no choice but to imposethe trade sanctions. REUTER
SOUTH AFRICAN TRADE SURPLUS FALLS SHARPLY IN MARCH South Africa's trade surplus fellsharply to 940.8 mln rand in March after rising to 1.62 billionin February, Customs and Excise figures show.    In February last year the surplus stood at 752.8 mln rand.    Exports fell to 3.24 mln rand in March from 3.36 billion inFebruary while imports rose to 2.30 billion rand from 1.74billion.    This brought total exports for the first quarter of thisyear to 9.92 billion rand and imports to 6.45 billion rand fora surplus of 3.47 billion versus 2.47 billion rand in the samein 1986 period. REUTER
NAKASONE HOPES U.S. VISIT WILL HELP END TRADE ROW Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone said hehopes his visit to Washington later this week will help resolveJapan's severe trade problems with the United States.    Nakasone leaves on his sixth official visit to the UnitedStates on Wednesday, only weeks after President Reagan imposedpunitive tariffs of 300 mln dlrs a year on Japanese electronicgoods for alleged violation of a semiconductor pact.    Japan also faces more possible sanctions amid calls in theU.S. Congress for further action to help improve tradeimbalances.    Japan's trade surplus with the United States reached arecord 58.6 billion dlrs in 1986.    Nakasone told reporters that special envoy Shintaro Abe,who has just returned from Washington, told him protectionistsentiment in the United States is severe.    "We are well aware of a movement in the United States toenact legislation," Nakasone said.    He said friends at home and abroad have advised him not togo to the United States but it is now more important than everthat he express Japan's view and carefully listens to the viewsof the United States.    "My visit to the United States at this time will be the mostimportant visit of all," Nakasone said.    While in Washington, he said he hopes to have candid andfrank discussions with President Reagan and Congressionlleaders. He said he plans to discuss exchange rate stability,economic cooperation to developing countries and U.S.-Sovietdisarmament and arms control.    On the recently imposed trade sactions, Nakasone said hewould present evidence that Japanese semiconductor imports areincreasing and that Japan is monitoring exports to thirdcountries.    "We have full confidence we can present clear evidence," hesaid. "(Therefore), we will request that the sanctions be liftedat the earliest possible time."    On the trade imbalance, Nakasone said Japan has alreadytaken action. The volume of exports to the United States hasbeen cut, while U.S. Imports have increased.    But Japanese imports from Europe and other Asian nationshave recently surged, those from the United States remain weak,indicating a lack of U.S. Competitiveness, he said.    Nakasone said Japan will continue to strive to improve thetrade imbalance but the United States will have to become morecompetitive and improve its huge budget deficit.    He said he will also discuss the forthcoming Venice summitof the seven major industrial nations in June.    "We can further enhance the efforts for improving peace,disarmament and the world economies as a whole throughsolidarity," Nakasone said. REUTER
REAGAN WARNS CONGRESS ON PROTECTIONISM President Reagan warned the U.S.Congress in his weekly radio address against passing what hecalled dangerous, protectionist trade legislation that wouldtie his hands in trade negotiations with Japan and othercountries.    Reagan, who will hold talks with Japanese Prime MinisterYasuhiro Nakasone here this week, said he would lift tariffsimposed last week against some Japanese products as soon asTokyo complied with a U.S.-Japanese pact on semiconductors.    U.S. officials gave the same message to former JapaneseForeign Minister Shintaro Abe in talks here last week.    In his weekly radio address on Saturday, Reagan said hewould tell Nakasone: "We want to continue to work cooperativelyon trade problems and want very much to lift these traderestrictions as soon as evidence permits.    Reagan said the 100 pct tariffs he imposed on some 300 mlndlrs worth of Japanese goods was a special case of traderetaliation and did not signal a shift in what he called hisstaunch anti-protectionist policies.    "In imposing these tariffs we were just trying to deal witha particular problem, not begin a trade war," he said. Reuter
BALDRIGE SAYS U.S. WANTS JAPAN TRADE PROPOSALS U.S. Secretary of Commerce MalcolmBaldrige said he hopes Japanese Prime Minister YasuhiroNakasone will make specific proposals to ease U.S.-Japan tradefriction at a meeting with President Reagan this week.    He also told reporters he hopes the U.S. Will soon be ableto lift sanctions imposed against Japan for alleged violationsof an accord on semiconductors.    "We have been very specific about our trade problems," hetold a news conference during a stopover in Hong Kong. "I hope(Nakasone) brings some specific answers to the trade problems."    "We want to lift the sanctions as soon as possible," Baldrigesaid.    He said that once the U.S. Determines that Japan is sellingsemiconductors at cost it will be able to lift the 300 mln U.S.Dlrs of duties it imposed on Japanese electronics goods onApril 17.    "We have not seen that yet," he said, adding that it wouldtake about one month to determine whether the allegedviolations of a bilateral semiconductor pact had beendiscontinued.    Baldrige did not say what specific solutions he wanted forU.S.-Japan trade problems.    But the New York Times today quoted administration sourcesas saying that the U.S. May be able to lift trade sanctionsagainst Japan by the end of June.    Japan would have to show that it had stopped underpricingsemiconductors and had widened access in Japan top U.S. Chipproducers.    Baldrige also said that despite the current trade rift, theU.S. And Japan have long had friendly ties that neither sidewants to change.    "We have a very special relationship with Japan. Japan is afriend and our ally," Baldrige said. "Neither one of us wantsthat to change."    He also repeated statements that he did not foresee a tradewar with Japan but that the U.S. Had no choice but to imposethe trade sanctions. REUTER
U.S. MAY TELL JAPAN SANCTIONS CAN END - NY TIMES President Reagan is expected to tellPrime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone this week that the U.S. May beable to lift trade sanctions against Japan by the end of June,the New York Times said.    The newspaper, quoting administration officials, said thatunder such a scenario the President would announce just beforethe June 8-10 economic summit meeting in Venice that he hopedto lift the restrictions on electronics imports by the end ofthe month. Japan, for its part, would have to show that it hadstopped underpricing semiconductors and had widened access inJapan for U.S. Chip producers.    The U.S. Administration imposed 100 pct tariffs on 300 mlndlrs worth of Japanese color television sets, motorised toolsand personal computers on April 17.    Japanese officials have said Nakasone's main demand when hearrives for talks with Reagan on Wednesday would be theimmediate lifting of the tariffs.    But with Congress planning further trade reprisals againstJapanese trade policies, the end-of-June timeframe is seen asthe best Reagan can offer, the Times said. It said some verbalformulation was expected to be found in a communique that wouldallow Nakasone to claim at least a modest victory. REUTER
U.S. WARNS OF TRADE BILL, EC ATTACKS JAPAN The U.S. warned its majortrade partners that its trade deficit must fall by September ora protectionist trade bill from Congress would be highlylikely.    Meanwhile, European Community (EC) external trade chiefWilly de Clercq said that if Japan's trade surplus, which hitalmost 90 billion dlrs last year, continued so high, therewould be stormy weather ahead.    U.S. Trade representative Clayton Yeutter told tradeleaders from Japan, the EC and Canada that there was at least a50-50 chance that a protectionist bill reaching the House ofRepresentatives this week would pass the Senate in September.    The U.S. economy badly needed better trade figures by then,or President Ronald Reagan would have a difficult time vetoingsuch a bill, he said, according to a series of briefings toreporters by official delegates at the weekend meeting.    A 15 billion dlr U.S. Trade deficit in March had onlyincensed Congress further, he said. Reuter
EC SAYS JAPAN CAR EXPORT RESTRAINT NOT ENOUGH Japan's 1987 car exportrestraint to the European Community (EC) is not enough, ECexternal trade chief Willy de Clercq said.    There are also strong signs Japanese exporters arediverting cars to the EC after the dollar's fall against theyen made their U.S. market unprofitable, he told reportersafter meeting U.S., Japanese, and Canadian trade ministers.    The EC has agreed that if it detects an abnormal diversionin Japanese exports from the U.S. To the EC market due tocurrency movements over the past two years, it will move toprevent it, he said.    Over the period, the yen has risen against the dollaralmost eight times as fast as against the European CurrencyUnit, he said.    Japan has set an unofficial, voluntary 10 pct rise in carexports to the EC this year as part of its efforts to stop itsrising trade surplus with the Community, which hit a record 18billion dlrs last year.    But Japanese car exports to the EC so far this year jumpedover 30 pct compared to a drop of 17 pct in U.S. Sales, and aseven per cent fall globally. "We think there is some diversionthere," said de Clercq. Reuter
G-7 OFFICIALS TO DECIDE ON SUMMIT AGENDA Senior officials from the Group ofSeven (G-7) countries will meet next week to decide an agendafor the body's June summit scheduled to be held in Venice,Japanese officials said.    The meeting will provide senior government officials withtheir first chance to discuss the recent sharp drop of thedollar, although the main focus of the gathering is longerterm, they said.    Deputy Finance Ministers, including Japanese Vice-FinanceMinister Toyoo Gyohten, will attend. The meeting will be heldin Italy, they said, but gave no other details.    The leaders of the G-7, the United States, Britain, Canada,France, Italy, Japan and West Germany, are expected to discussways of improving economic policy coordination in Venice.    The hope is that increased coordination will help reducethe huge imbalances in world trade and calm volatile currencymarkets. But economists say the strategy has so far not worked.    Japanese officials admitted there is little more they cando on their own to stem the dollar decline, which last week sawthe currency plunge to a post-war low below 140 yen.    The officials said they expected sentiment against thedollar to change soon, once the U.S. Trade deficit starts tofall and the Japanese surplus begins to shrink.    "We have already seen some signs of improvement (in thetrade picture), but the market does not appreciate it yet," onesaid.    Last week's passage of the Japanese government budget byparliament's Lower House also paves the way for Tokyo to takeadditional action to stimulate its sagging economy and boostimports, the officials said. Reuter
U.S. TREASURY'S BAKER CANCELS TRIP TO AUSTRALIA Treasury Secretary James Baker hascancelled a trip to Australia because of pressing business athome, including the visit this week by Japanese Prime MinisterYasuhiro Nakasone, a Treasury spokesman said.    The spokesman, who asked not to be identified, said: "Iwould not draw any conclusion from the cancellation...I wouldjust say it's the press of business."    But he added that the visit by the Japanese leader was "partof the press of business."    The spokesman denied the cancellation was linked to thecurrent turmoil in the financial markets.       Nakasone's visit is expected to be crucial for the currencymarkets. Unless the Japanese prime minister brings with himmeasures to stimulate the Japanese economy by fiscal expansionor lower interest rates, the visit is likely to be consideredby currency markets as an outright failure.    In addition, it is thought highly unlikely that Nakasoneand Reagan will agree on the removal of U.S. trade sanctionsimposed earlier this month on certain electronic goods.    But the participation in the talks by Baker, theadministration's top policy maker on international economicaffairs, suggests that hard bargaining between the two sidesmay be in prospect.       Asked if the trip by Baker, who was to have left April 30and returned May 6, had been dropped in the last couple ofdays, the Treasury spokesman replied: "I would think so."    He described the trip as "purely ceremonial."    Both Japan and the United States have a lot to lose from anunsuccessful outcome to the this week's talks.    Tokyo and Washington are aware that nervous currency markets stand ready to bail out of dollars and buy yen, whicheconomists fear could send world interest rates soaring andeven lead to global recession.    Baker has been the driving force behind theadministration's efforts to coordinate international economicpolicies and reduce global trade imbalances.    Reuter
NAKASONE ADVISED TO EXPAND PURCHASES ABROAD Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone wasadvised to work out a plan for his government to buy more thanone billion dlrs worth of foreign industrial products as partof efforts to defuse Japan's trade frictions with the UnitedStates, officials said.    Former Foreign Minister Shintaro Abe made therecommendation at a meeting with Nakasone soon after returningfrom a U.S. Visit designed to pave the way for the primeminister's visit to Washington starting next Wednesday.    Abe met President Ronald Reagan and U.S. Congressionalleaders during his visit.    It was not known how Nakasone responded to the suggestion.    It also included increasing the nation's untied loans todeveloping countries to between 25 billion and 30 billion dlrsover the next three years and giving foreign firms greateraccess to a six billion dlr international airport project inwestern Japan, officials said.    Abe called for tax cuts and government funds to be funneledinto public works projects to stimulate domestic demand. Abespoke of the possibility that Nakasone's visit could coincidewith the passage of a protectionist trade bill by the U.S.House of Representatives. Reuter
NAKASONE TO MEET REAGAN AMID TRADE TENSIONS Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone,beleaguered by political turmoil at home, sets out Wednesday ona tough mission to Washington aimed at defusing the mostserious U.S.-Japanese trade tension in recent memory.    Two rounds of talks between President Reagan and Nakasone,scheduled for Thursday and Friday, come on the heels of theimposition by the United States of punitive tariffs on Japanesegoods for the first time since World War Two.    In the past, bilateral trade friction involving cottongoods, steel, television sets, textiles and cars have endedwith Japan taking on voluntary export curbs.    Nakasone's visit could coincide with the passage of aprotectionist trade bill by the U.S. House of Representatives.    A proposed amendment to the bill, drafted by RepresentativeRichard Gephardt of Missouri, will mandate a 10 pct annualreduction in the trade surpluses of Japan and other nationswhich have large trade gaps with the United States.    The United States last year had a record trade deficit of169.8 billion dlrs and Japan accounted for about one-third.    Foreign Ministry spokesman Yoshifumi Matsuda said recentlyhe was reasonably optimistic about the results of talks betweenthe two leaders.    Top U.S. and Japanese officials have shuttled back andforth across the Pacific to lay the groundwork for Nakasone'svisit. The last of the talks leading up to the main event willbe in Washington next Wednesday between U.S. Secretary of StateGeorge Shultz and Foreign Minister Tadashi Kuranari.    Nakasone will have an economic package worked out by theruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) and by an advisory bodyled by former Bank of Japan Governor Haruo Maekawa.    Japan plans to spend over 5,000 billion yen to boostdomestic demand, increase imports of U.S. products includingsupercomputers and give more help to developing countries,government officials said.    The government has been making last ditch efforts in timefor Nakasone's trip to address outstanding bilateral issues,officials said.    The issues include foreign access to a new Japaneseoverseas telecommunications venture and a six billion dlrinternational airport project in western Japan.    Nakasone and his party last week reached a compromiseaccord with opposition parties over a controversial sales taxplan in exchange for parliamentary passage by the Lower Houseof a government draft budget for 1987/88.    The accord, offered by House Speaker Kenzaburo Hara,virtually killed the Nakasone-sponsored plan, but left room forfuture tax reform plans, political analysts said.    Nakasone, who led his party to a resounding electoraltriumph last July, saw his popularity drop because of the salestax.    His party suffered setbacks in an Upper House by-electionand nationwide local elections in the past two months.    Mitsuru Uchida, professor of political science at WasedaUniversity, told Reuters: "I doubt that whatever Nakasone doesin Washington -- no matter how good it might be -- would helprestore his weakened power-base at home."    Many analysts said Nakasone might step down after theVenice summit of industrialized nations in June. Reuter
TRADE MINISTERS SAY GOVERNMENTS NEED CREDIBILITY Four trade ministers ended aweekend meeting with a frank confession that their governmentsare losing credibility in world financial markets and will notregain it until they back their promises over trade andcurrencies with action.    "Until today we have anounced policies, but when it came toaction required it was done in a way that satisfied nobody,"Japanese Trade Minister Hajime Tamura told a news conference.    "From now on, if a government comes up with a certainpolicy, it must be followed by action," he said following twodays of informal talks with the trade ministers of the UnitedStates, the European Community and Canada in central Japan.    Last week, the dollar fell to a new record low below 140yen, despite statements from the Group of Seven (G-7) leadingindustrial powers that currencies should be stabilised tounderpin world trade.    "We need credibility to gain confidence. When we haveconfidence, then we can have an impact," said Tamura.    His colleagues agreed that when major trade nations foughtover trade issues while calling for each other to honour freetrade rules in general, it was not a sight which inspiredconfidence in the markets.    "The time has come now to act in step with the talk. If youbelong to a club, you have to act in concord with the rules, ifyou want to be credible," said EC external trade chief Willy deClercq.    Pat Carney of Canada said "We are meeting in a time of greattrade tension. What the world needs to see is that we have thepolitical will to deal with these problems we face."    She said that next month's meeting of the Organisation ofEconomic Cooperation and Development and the meeting of leadersof the G-7 nations in Venice in the summer would be a forum toshow this will existed.    U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter reminded the newsconference that the results of such high level meetings couldlead to action which would only have an effect on smoothing outworld trade imbalances perhaps years later.    "The media typically has a tendency to evaluate meetingslike this in terms of tangible results. That is not the way itshould be pursued," he said.    "What is achieved in an intangible way almost always exceedswhat is achieved in a tangible way," he said.    Progress in personal contacts and understanding eachothers' positions and policies was just as important towardreducing trade tensions, he said.    Tamura read out an agreed summary of the joint talks:    Currency stability was now essential, but currencymovements alone would not correct a U.S. trade deficit withJapan which hit 58 billion dlrs last year, an 18 billion dlr ECdeficit with Japan in 1986, and a Japanese global trade surplusof almost 90 billion, he said.    Trade retaliation, protectionism, and forcible exportrestraints which lead to a shrinkage in world trade flows weremost dangerous, he said.    The imbalances can only be solved by coordinated policiesover a whole range of fiscal, monetary, trade and industrialmeasures, and in line with a body of internationally agreedrules, he said.    In this regard, the policing role of the Geneva-basedGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade world trade body must bestrengthened, he said.    The ministers reconfirmed their individual promises tosolve the problem. The United States will try to reduce itslarge budget deficit and restore competitiveness within itsindustries.    Japan will introduce early and effective measures to expandits domestic growth and rely less on exports.    The EC must continue efforts for balanced growth andreduced unemployment. All felt satisfied at the new progress inthe Canadian economy. Reuter
SEOUL UNVEILS SHOPPING LIST OF U.S. GOODS South Korea unveiled a shopping list of2.6 billion dlrs of U.S. Goods in line with its new policy ofseeking to limiting its trade surplus to ease trade frictionwith Washington.    The government said this would help freeze this year'strade surplus with the United States at the 1986 level.    "The surplus, which rose to 7.4 billion dollars last yearfrom 4.3 billion in 1985, was projected to top 10 billion thisyear but the government has taken steps to constrain it to theseven billion dollar level," one Trade Ministry official toldReuters.    A government statement said the 2.6 billion dlrs was inaddition to about two billion dlrs of purchases made last monthby a South Korean trade mission to the United States.    The announcement follows a visit here this week by U.S.Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige, who said that if SouthKorea wanted to avoid protectionist retaliation it should notfalter in its policies to open its market and cut its surplus.    The statement said the government, state agencies and otherpublic institutions would buy 480 mln dlrs worth of U.S. Cars,computers, helicopters, ambulances, motorcycles, medical andlaboratory equipment and other products. "This amounts includes89 mln dlrs worth of purchases which were not originallyreflected in their budgets," it added.    The list includes 1.13 billion dlrs of capital goods, 700mln of farm products, 50 mln of aluminium, zinc, polyethyleneand other raw materials, and 250 mln of steel, electronics andshipbuilding parts which would be shifted from other nations.    Agriculture Ministry officials said South Korea had alreadybought 310 mln dlrs worth of U.S. Wheat, raw cotton, corn andsoybeans.    This meant the country would buy from the United Statesnearly all of the 1.27 billion dlrs of its planned imports ofsuch commodities this year, they said.    The government will also take steps to reduce tariffs,accelerate the opening of its markets, voluntarily restrainexports and cut export financing, the statement said.    South Korea will also reorganise the country's 3,600 tradeagents to deliver better after-sales services for importedproducts and hold a trade show in November for U.S. Products. Reuter
BANKER SEES CURRENCY FALLING TO BALANCE TRADE A leading regional banker saidthat it was axiomatic that despite market intervention, acountry's currency will eventually fall to an exchange ratewhich balances its international trade and payments accounts.    John Medlin, president and chief executive officer for theFirst Wachovia Corp, said that "substantial and rapid currencydevaluations usually are followed in time by surging priceinflation, spiralling interest rates and painful economicausterity."    Speaking to a banking trade group, he also said the peak ofdebt writeoff has not yet been reached.    Medlin told the Bankers Association for Foreign Trade thatultimately "our nation's budget and trade deficits will bebalanced either through voluntary restraints in spending andconsumption or through forced austerity imposed by adispassionate and unmerciful international market place."    He said the continuing weakness of the dollar and therecent increase in inflation and interest rates "provide earlywarning that the classic laws of international economics stillare in effect."    He also told the association that trying to reduce thetrade deficit by erecting protectionist barriers to importswould not give lasting relief.    "However, the imposition and enforcement of fair traderules could help improve imbalances with nations which practiceprotectionism and deception on us."    Medlin noted that the U.S. economy was likely to continue"at best being a sluggish mixture of depressed segments andgrowth areas."    But he said that the business cycle was still alive andthat the next downturn "could be deeper and harder to reversethan the last one." Reuter
REAGAN HOPES TO LIFT JAPAN SANCTIONS SOON President Reagan said he hoped theUnited States could lift trade sanctions against Japan soon.    But he said the United States would do what is necessary tosee that other nations lived up to their trade agreements.    In a speech prepared for delivery to the U.S. Chamber ofCommerce, he said, "I hope that, before long, we can lift these(Japanese trade sanctions) and that this episode will berecorded as a small incident in the building of ourrelationship."    But, Reagan added, "we will do what is necessary to see thatother nations live up to their obligations and tradingagreements with us. Trade must be free. It must also be fair."    Reagan said the decision to impose 100 pct tariffs on 300mln dlrs worth of electronic exports to the United States senta message it was time to complete a U.S.-Japan "trade bridge."  "The final answer to the trade problems between America andJapan is not more hemming and hawing, not more trade sanctions,not more voluntary restraint agreements - though these may beneeded as steps along the way - and certainly not moreunfulfilled agreements," he said.    Reagan said the answer was genuinely fair and open marketson both sides of the Pacific - "and the sooner, the better."    Reagan said the administration's tools for dealing withunfair trade practices met the need for both firmness andfinesse.    He said trade legislation pending in Congress would bedangerous because it would force the administration to use "asteamroller against unfair practices every time, no matterwhether the steamroller would open the trade doors or flattenthe entire house," he said.    Reagan said that ending every unfair trade practice inJapan would cut the U.S. trade deficit by only about 10 pct.    "If our trade deficit is to come down, more must be done --and is being done," he said.    "The change in the dollar's value is part of it, and sincethe middle of last year, the actual volume of our exports hadbeen on the rise," he said.    He also said he believed America's trading partners shouldcut taxes and regulations, as the United States had done, sothat they could create jobs and buy more goods. Reuter
EC TO BEGIN TALKS ON ECONOMIC PACT WITH HUNGARY European Community foreign ministersagreed to formal talks on signing an economic pact withHungary, in a move which could clear the way towardsestablishing EC diplomatic ties with Budapest, EC officialssaid.    They said Community foreign ministers agreed to mandate theEC executive Commission to open talks on a cooperation pactwhich would boost trade and economic ties with Hungary.    Earlier this year, Hungarian Deputy Prime Minister JozsefMarjai said Hungary might be willing to normalise relationswith the Community in exchange for such a deal, according to ECofficials. No date has been fixed for opening the talks. REUTER
TAIWAN RESERVES RISE ON TRADE SURPLUS, SPECULATION Taiwan's foreign exchange reserves haverisen to a new high of 56 billion U.S. Dlrs, and officialsattribute the increase to a surging trade surplus and theinflux of speculative funds.    The reserves, up from 54 billion dlrs on April 19, comparewith 27.3 billion a year ago, the Central Bank said.    Vice economic minister Wang Chien-shien told Reuters: "Therising reserves will certainly intensify our trade frictionwith the U.S."    A central bank official, who declined to be named, saidTaiwan's trade surplus is expected to exceed 5.5 billion U.S.Dlrs in the first four months of 1987, against 4.25 billion ayear ago.    The influx of speculative funds, mainly from Hong Kong,Japan and the U.S., Also played a major role behind the rise ofthe reserves, he said, but declined to give figures.    Banking sources said almost 10 billion U.S. Dlrs hadentered Taiwan since early 1986. About three billion of thefunds were remitted through different channels, including theblack market, since the start of this year, they said.    Wang Chao-ming, vice chairman of the government's Councilfor Economic Planning and Development, said he expects thereserves to rise in the next few months because of thecontinuing high level of Taiwan's exports and the steadyappreciation of the local dollar against the U.S. Currency.    "The latest government moves to open (the domestic) market,cut import tariffs and lift foreign exchange controls haveachieved little success," he said.    Vice economic minister Li Mo said tariffs were cut on some1,700 products in January and a further 862 this month in a bidto encourage more imports, especially the U.S.    More tariff cuts on about 300 imported products, includingtelevisions, video tape recorders, cosmetics and refrigeratorswill be announced in a month or two, Li said.    Li's colleague, Wang Chien-shien, said the government willsend several trade missions to the U.S. This year to buy aboutone billion U.S. Dlrs of products, including machinery, powerequipment, grains and precision tools.    "We earnestly hope to reduce our trade surplus with theU.S.," he said.    Taiwan's trade surplus rose to a record 13.6 billion U.S.Dlrs last year from 10.2 billion in 1985, and it widened to3.61 billion in the first quarter of 1987 against 2.78 billiona year ago, official statistics show.    The surplus has increased U.S. Pressure on Taiwan for afaster appreciation of its currency, which has risen by about18 pct since September 1985.    It opened at 33.10 to the U.S. Dollar today. REUTER
GERMAN CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS WIDENS IN MARCH West Germany's current accountsurplus widened to a provisional 8.8 billion marks in Marchfrom a slightly downwards revised 6.5 billion in February, aspokesman for the Federal Statistics Office said.    The trade surplus fell to a provisional 10.1 billion marksfrom 10.4 billion in February.    The Statistics Office had earlier put the February currentaccount surplus at a provisional 6.6 billion marks. Theprovisional February trade surplus was confirmed.    The Office said the March trade surplus had also risenstrongly from the year-ago month total of 8.5 billion marks,while the March current account surplus compared with only 4.3billion marks a year earlier.    The figures given by the office show nominal trade flows,but an office statement said that the current account surplushad also risen in real terms from February.    However, it attributed this partly to the fact thatpayments to the European Community had been brought forward inFebruary, with the result that transfers abroad in March wereunusually low.    The Statistics Office said March imports totalled 36.93billion marks, a rise of 15 pct from February and of 4.7 pctcompared with March 1986.    March exports of 47.06 billion marks were 11 pct higherthan in February and 7.6 pct higher than in March last year.    Other data reported in the current account balance showedthere was a 400 mln mark deficit in supplementary trade items,a 500 mln mark deficit in the services account and a 400 mlnmark deficit in transfer payments.    The Statistics Office said that in the first three monthsof this year the trade surplus had risen to 27.8 billion marksfrom 22.6 billion marks in the same period last year.    The current account surplus had risen to 20.0 billion marksfrom 15.6 billion. REUTER
THAI ECONOMY TO ACHIEVE FIVE PCT GROWTH THIS YEAR Thailand's gross domestic product willexpand five pct this calendar year, up from 3.8 pct in 1986,despite a projected slight decline in agricultural output dueto drought, the Bank of Thailand said.    Central bank spokesman Siri Karncharoendi told reportersthe Thai economy clearly recovered in the first quarter fromthe lingering effects of the 1984-85 recession.    He said the industrial sector is expected to expand 5.5 pctthis year, up from five pct in 1986. Agricultural output isprojected to grow 2.8 pct after 1.5 pct contraction in 1986.    He said January/March imports grew 19.2 pct to 70.7 billionbaht, in response to an improving domestic market, comparedwith a nine pct decline to 59.3 billion a year ago. Non-oilimports grew 24.8 pct to 60.2 billion baht while oil importsdeclined 5.6 pct to 10.5 billion.    First quarter exports increased 12.7 pct to 63.2 billionbaht compared with 14.4 pct and 56.1 billion a year ago.    Siri said he expects the trade deficit to widen to about 30billion baht this year from 17.4 billion in 1986. The currentaccount, which last year posted a surplus of 3.5 billion baht,is projected to return to a 7.4 billion deficit in 1987.    He said overall January/March lending by the Thai bankingsystem grew a strong nine pct to 577.9 billion baht, up from4.7 pct growth in the previous quarter and 5.8 pct for thewhole of 1986.    He said the Thai consumer price index rose 1.8 pct in thefirst quarter, down from 2.3 pct a year ago, but added thatwith the economy picking up, inflation is expected to rise to2.5 pct this year from 1.9 pct for the whole 1986. REUTER
SEOUL ANNOUNCES MORE TARIFF CUTS FOR U.S. South Korea will cut import taxes on 50items, including construction equipment, photographic film,cigarettes and pipe tobacco, to help reduce its trade surpluswith the United States, the finance ministry said.    The tariff cuts, of between five and 30 percentage points,take effect on July 1.    This brings to 157 the number of goods on which importtaxes have been cut this year, a ministry official said.    The 157 are among about 290 items on which Washington hasasked Seoul to lower tariffs, he added.    Today's announcement follows Saturday's removal of importcurbs on 170 products. For 46 of those products, the U.S. Hadhad sought free access to the South Korean market.    "This is in line with the government's policy to limit ourtrade surplus with the United States to help reduce tradefriction between the two countries," the official said.    South Korea's trade surplus with the U.S. Rose to 7.3billion dlrs in 1986 from 4.3 billion in 1985. Officials saidthe surplus was expected to widen further in 1987 but Seoulwould try to hold it below eight billion dlrs.    The finance ministry said tariffs would be cut later thismonth on a further 53 items, including acrylic yarn andethylene, by an average 7.7 percentage points in order to checkinflation.    The officials said the tariff cuts would contribute toholding wholesale and consumer price rises at less than threepct this year. REUTER
SEOUL ANNOUNCES MORE TARIFF CUTS FOR U.S. South Korea will cut import taxes on 50goods, including construction equipment, cigarettes andtobacco, to help reduce its trade surplus with the UnitedStates, the Finance Ministry said today. The tariff cuts ofbetween five and 30 pct will take effect on July 1.    South Korea ran a trade surplus of 7.3 billion dlrs withWashington in 1986, sharply up from 4.3 billion in 1985.    Today's announcement brings to 157 the number of goods forwhich similar measures were taken this year, a ministryofficial said. The 157 are among about 290 items on whichWashington has asked Seoul to lower tariffs.    "This is in line with the government's policy to limit ourtrade surplus with the United States to help reduce tradefriction between the two countries," said the official. Reuter
U.S. TRADE BILL VERY DANGEROUS FOR CANADA, LOBBY A trade bill before the United StatesHouse of Representatives "is a very dangerous bill for Canadianindustry," Canadian Forest Industry Council chairman AdamZimmerman told reporters.    By changing the definition of subsidy under U.S.countervailing duty law, House of Representatives Bill 3removes protection for companies that take advantage of widelyused government programs, Zimmerman told a media briefing.    "Clearly, any industry to which Canadian governments grantrights to fish, mine, cut timber, or produce power could bevulnerable to a finding of a subsidy under this language," hesaid.    The Canadian forest lobby's Zimmerman also said the Houseof Representative Bill would adopt a new way of measuringsubsidies that would greatly increase the size of anycountervailing duties that might be imposed on Canadianresource exports to the U.S.    Under the bill, any difference between Canadian prices andU.S. or world market prices would constitute a subsidy, hesaid. Such a method would make Canadian resource industriesvulnerable to similar penalties like a 15 pct export taximposed last January on shipments of Canadian softwood lumberto the U.S., Zimmerman added.    Canadian negotiators agreed to levy the new tax if a U.S.forest industry lobby would drop its request for a countervailduty on imports of Canadian softwood lumber.    "We represent the first victim of the move to price othercountries' natural resources according to the U.S. system,"Zimmerman said.    "If we're an example, than other resource industries hadbetter watch out," he added.    Zimmerman said the Canadian Forest Industry Council plansto discuss concerns about the U.S. trade bill with lobby groupsfrom other Canadian resource industries. Reuter
U.S. TRADE DATA SEEN AS KEY TO DOLLAR TREND The dollar's recent signs of stabilityhave raised hopes that its 27-month decline may be nearly over,but most currency analysts refuse to commit themselves untilafter the June 12 release of U.S. trade data for April.    "The trade data will be a deciding factor to see if thedollar has bottomed out," said Jim McGroarty of Discount Corp.    Since February 1985, the dollar has nearly halved its valueagainst the yen and the mark as part of an officiallyorchestrated campaign to make U.S. goods more competitive onworld markets and redress gaping world trade imbalances.    On April 27, the dollar fell to a 40-year low of 137.25 yenbut has enjoyed a modest recovery over the last few weeks,topping 145 yen today for the first time in nearly two months.    Many economists now believe that the dollar has fallen farenough to ease the trade deficit's drag on the U.S. economy.    The U.S. trade gap narrowed to 13.6 billion dlrs in Marchfrom 15.1 billion in February and is expected to show continuedimprovement in April in volume, if not in real, terms.    Keiichi Udagawa of Bank of Tokyo in New York said that iffurther progress is reported, the dollar would head back uptowards 150 yen.    "There is growing consensus that the dollar has bottomedout for the medium term," added Tom Campbell of First NationalBank of Chicago.    Other factors supporting this bullish view were growingexpectations that Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker wouldbe reappointed for a third four-year term in August, Japan'slarger-than-expected economic stimulus package last week and more favorably technical chart signals, analysts said.    The dollar was also aided by Japan's moves to dampenspeculative selling in Tokyo and by reports of active centralbank intervention to support the dollar.    The Federal Reserve Bank of New York said last week thatthe U.S. monetary authorities bought more than four billiondlrs during the February-April period -- the largest amountsince the dollar crisis of the late 1970's.    Discount Corp's McGroarty described the Fed's interventionvolume as "impressive".    James O'Neill of Marine Midland Bank was not so positive,however: "the dollar has not yet bottomed out. After the tradedata are released, the dollar could fall towards 1.77 marks and140 yen."    Similarly, Natsuo Okada of Sumitomo Bank in New Yorkwarned, "I don't think the dollar has bottomed out yet."    Although the dollar could rise as high as 146.50 yen, Okadasaid market impatience about the painstakingly slow decline ofthe U.S. trade deficit may lead to renewed pressure.    Currency analysts also warned about an unfavorable reactionto the seven-nation economic Summit on June 8 to 10 in Venice,which is likely to focus on the implementation of previouscommitments rather than yield any fresh initiatives.    President Reagan said today, "economic policy decisionsmade last year in Tokyo and at this year's meetings of Group ofSeven finance ministers in Paris and Washington cannot beignored or forgotten."    "The commitments made at these meetings need to betranslated into action," he added in a speech, celebrating the40th anniversary of the Marshall aid plan for Europe.    Now that Tokyo has unveiled its fiscal stimulus package,analysts expected Bonn and the dollar/mark rate to bear thebrunt of U.S. calls for further action.    Marine Midland's O'Neill said, "pressure will build up onGermany to take stimulative action like Japan."    Some Japanese bank dealers warned that although the dollarcould hold above 145 yen for some months it could also comeunder attack again if it seems the latest economic package isnot having much impact on Japan's economy and its tradesurplus. Reflecting a longer-term uncertainty, some some trustbanks and Japanese insurers are keeping their short dollarpositons hedged against exchange losses in their foreignportfolios, while some others have started covering those shortpositions, Japanese bank dealers said. Reuter
UAE TRADE, CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUSES NARROW The United Arab Emirates recorded a1986 trade surplus of 12.2 billion dirhams, narrowing from 30.2billion in 1985, the central bank's latest bulletin shows.    The central bank said the lower surplus was mainly due tothe decline in the value of exports and re-exports to 37.2billion dirhams from 54.2 billion in 1985. This reflected thedecline in oil prices last year and difficulties in marketingUAE oil, the central bank added.    The surplus on the current account narrowed to 6.8 billiondirhams from 25.5 billion in 1985. The overall balance showed asurplus of 4.8 billion after 2.6 billion in 1985. REUTER
UAE TRADE, CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUSES NARROW The United Arab Emirates (UAE) recordeda 1986 trade surplus of 12.2 billion dirhams, narrowing from30.2 billion in 1985, the central bank's latest bulletin shows.    The central bank said the lower surplus was mainly due tothe decline in the value of exports and reexports to 37.2billion dirhams from 54.2 billion in 1985. This reflected thedecline in oil prices last year and difficulties in marketingUAE oil, the central bank added.    The surplus on the current account narrowed to 6.8 billiondirhams from 25.5 billion in 1985. The overall balance showed asurplus of 4.8 billion after 2.6 billion in 1985. REUTER
JAPAN CONCERNED AT EC TRADE THREATS - MINISTER Japan is disappointed at the recent threatsof trade retaliation from the European Community (EC) just asthe trade situation between the two is improving, JapaneseTrade and Industry Minister Hajime Tamura said.    "I am deeply concerned that the EC has moved to take aharsher line toward Japan despite this tangible improvement," hesaid in a speech prepared for delivery at the opening of a newcentre designed to improve understanding between the two sides.    Last week, foreign ministers of the 12 EC nations agreed toimpose tariffs on a range of unspecified Japanese electricalgoods unless Tokyo opened its markets more to EC exports.    Tamura referred to a 55 pct rise in Japanese imports of ECmanufactured goods in the year ended March 31.    "I feel this is a strong step on the road to balance throughexpansion."    "While I do not deny the existence of the trade deficitbetween Japan and the EC, I believe it should be rectified notby reducing trade through import restrictions or exportrestraints, but by expanding the (overall) trade," Tamura said. REUTER
TURKISH TRADE DEFICIT WIDENS IN APRIL Turkey's trade deficit widened to 382 mlndlrs in April from 275 mln in March and 273 mln in April 1986,the State Statistics Institute said.    The deficit for the first quarter of 1987 widened to 1.23billion dlrs from 1.20 billion a year earlier.    April exports totalled 702 mln dlrs compared with importsof 1.08 billion.    Exports in the first four months were worth 2.69 billiondlrs compared with imports of 3.92 billion. REUTER
U.S. WEIGHS LIFTING JAPANESE TRADE CURBS The White House has completed a newreview of Japanese semiconductor trading practices but has notyet decided whether trade sanctions levied against Japan lastApril should be lifted, U.S. officials said.    They said the president's Economic Policy Council looked atJapan's adherence to the 1986 U.S.-Japanese semiconductor pactyesterday and that an announcement may be made shortly.    But there was no hint what the announcement might be.    Officials have said the 100 pct tariffs on 300 mln dlrs ofJapanese exports could be modified if Japan was found to behonoring a portion of its semiconductor pact.    But they also noted that the White House has said it wasunlikely the tariffs would be lifted before the meeting of theworld's seven major economic powers in Venice on June 8-10.    The officials added that while the curbs complicatedU.S.-Japanese economic cooperation, they did serve to blunt Congressional criticism that the Reagan Administrtation was nottaking tough actions to reduce he U.S. trade deficit.    Reagan imposed the sanctions on April 17 in retaliation forJapan's failure to honor commitments to end dumpingsemiconductors in world markets at less than production costsand to open its own market to U.S. goods.    The sanctions were levied on certain Japanese televisionsets, personal computers and hand-held power tools.    Reagan, in imposing the curbs, said they would be lifted assoon as there was evidence of a pattern that Japan was adheringto the pact. reuter
SHULTZ WELCOMES TOKYO ECONOMIC PACKAGE U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz saidthe 6,000 billion yen economic package announced by Tokyo lastweek went further than the U.S. Had expected.    But he said the U.S. Would not lift the selective economicsanctions it imposed on Japanese imports in April until Tokyochanged its sales policies concerning computer microchips.    Speaking in a televised news conference linking severalEuropean capitals, Shultz said it was heartening that theJapanese had confronted the problem of stimulating domestic andglobal demand.    "There is an even greater amount of stimulus than wasoriginally thought," said Shultz, speaking from Washington.    "It is a lot more than nothing. It is more than was talkedabout when (Prime Minister Yasuhiro) Nakasone was here.    "It involves a major reduction in tax rates and we believethat getting the tax burden down is one way of stimulating theeconomy," he added.    But asked by Japanese reporters, also linked into the newsconference, whether the positive reaction meant the U.S. Mightdecide at next week's Venice summit to lift its sanctions onsome Japanese electronic goods, Shultz replied:    "These sanctions were undertaken on the basis of anagreement that had been reached between the United States andJapan on various sale practices and prices relating to the chipmarket.    "They will be lifted as the facts of change by Japan to theagreement that it made become evident."    He said U.S. Officials had only been able to monitor thesituation for a month and that it was impossible to determine atrend on only one month's data.    The U.S. Imposed 100 pct import duties on personalcomputers, colour televisions and power tools, alleging thatJapan had violated last September's bilateral agreement byselling computer chips at below fair market value.    Shultz said West Germany and other nations would also dowell to look at what they could do to stimulate demand.    Asked whether the U.S. Could reasonably ask its allies totake action to stimulate the world economy without a boldAmerican initiative to reduce the size of the federal budgetdeficit, Shultz said moves were already underway to tackle theproblem.    He said by the end of the current fiscal year the deficitwould probably be reduced by around 35 billion dlrs againstlast year, and that the budget being worked on this year wouldcontain a major reduction. REUTER
REAGAN SEEKS ROMANIA TRADE CONCESSION President Reagan called for continuednondiscriminatory treatment for Romanian exports to the UnitedStates in the face of congressional opposition because of theBucharest government's record on human rights.    A White House statement said Reagan's decision to press forcontinuation of so-called Most Favored Nation (MFN) status forRomania had been "exceptionally difficult" and came after "alloptions were seriously considered."    But the statement said that despite concerns about humanrights abuses by the Bucharest government, the president haddecided that should be continued because it helped stimulateemigration from Romania and gave the United States influence onhuman rights practices there.    The statement was issued as Reagan sent to Congressrequests for one-year extensions of MFN for Romania, Hungaryand China.    The House of Representatives has attached to a trade billlegislation that would temporarily deny MFN for Romania pendingcertification by Reagan that the country had made progress onhuman rights. There is no controversy over continuation of MFNfor Hungary and China. Reuter
INVESTMENT CRUCIAL TO U.S. TEXTILE RECOVERY With more private investment, not moreprotection, the U.S. textile industry could become competitivewith the most modern foreign producers, analysts from twocongressional agencies said today.    The Office of Technology Assessment, a nonpartisan arm ofCongress told a House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee hearingthere was still concern for the future of parts of the U.S.textile and apparel industry, but there was more reason foroptimism than a few years ago.    "While textile producers are making significantinvestments, they could do more," OTA analyst Henry Kelly said.    The Congressional Budget Office (CBO), the nonpartisanbudget analysis arm of Congress, said federal loans or loanguarantees would be preferable options for Congress rather thanincreased trade protection which could lead to foreignretaliation.    CBO analyst Edward Gramlich said past trade protections,first imposed in the 1950's have had only a small benefit forprofits and investments of domestic firms.    Trade Subcommittee chairman, Rep. Sam Gibbons, said theagencies analyses seemed to agree with his opinion againstcongressional approval of protectionist textile quotalegislation aimed mainly at Western Europe, Japan and otherAsian textile producing countries.    President Reagan last year vetoed a textile protection billbut it was reintroduced in this session of Congress and isexpected to be voted on in the House this year.    However, approval this year is in doubt because passage ofa major trade bill without specific protections for textilesshowed a weakening of support for the legislation.    Most U.S. producers have fallen behind other foreignproducers in the use of modern textile and apparel productionequipment and net imports are growing faster than the domesticmarkets, Kelly said.    He added that private investment in the textile andclothing industry in 1983 of 0.5 pct was less than one-sevenththe average manufacturing investment of 3.9 pct.    Despite existing import quotas and tariffs, imports oftextiles grew 26 pct in 1986 and imports of apparel grew 14 pctwhile U.S. production rose only 1.9 pct.    "The traditional industry seems destined to be replaced bynew technology, imports, or some combination of both. While theindustry may not be able to compete in all domestic marketsthat it enjoyed twenty years ago, the results of our researchindicate that portions of the domestic market can be recovered,and that exports can be expanded," Kelly said. Reuter
N.Z. APRIL CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT NARROWS New Zealand's current account deficitnarrowed to 76 mln N.Z. Dlrs in April from a revised 89 mlndlrs in March, and 224 mln dlrs in April 1986, in a smoothedseasonally-adjusted measurement, the Statistics Departmentsaid.    The March figure was revised from 69 mln dlrs.    The department said in a statement seasonally adjusted, butnon-smoothed figures, showed a deficit of 99 mln dlrs against76 mln dlrs in March and 230 mln dlrs in April 1986.    Totally unadjusted figures show a deficit of 83 mln dlrsagainst 164 mln dlrs in March, revised from 178 mln dlrs, andcompared with 262 mln in April 1986.    The smoothed seasonally adjusted series shows a surplus onmerchandise trade of 145 mln dlrs against 135 mln dlrs in Marchand 30 mln dlrs in April 1986.    Seasonally adjusted but non-smoothed figures show amerchandise trade surplus of 132 mln dlrs against a 148 mln dlrsurplus in March and a 14 mln dlr surplus in April 1986.    Unadjusted merchandise figures show a surplus of 151 mlndlrs against a 5.0 mln dlr (revised from 10 mln dlr) deficit inMarch and a 31 mln dlr deficit in March 1986.    The smoothed seasonally adjusted deficit on invisibles was234 mln N.Z. Dlrs against 236 mln dlrs in March and 255 inApril 1986.    The seasonally adjusted but non-smoothed deficit oninvisibles was 240 mln dlrs against 229 mln dlrs in March and245 mln dlrs in April 1986. The unadjusted deficit oninvisibles was 234 mln dlrs against 158 mln dlrs, revised from168 mln dlrs, in March and 231 mln dlrs in April 1986.    Seasonally adjusted export and import figures were notavailable.    The department said these figures show a continuingimprovement in the current account deficit, caused mainly by animprovement in the balance on merchandise trade which has nowbeing in surplus since november 1985. Reuter
EC OFFICIAL WARNS U.S. ON UNILATERAL TRADE MOVES Roy Denman, the European Communityrepresentative in Washington, warned the United States againstsetting a rule that trading partners running a surplus shouldbe "beaten over the head" for not removing trade barriers.    Denman, in an Op-Ed piece in today's Washington Post, saidtrade disputes should be dealt with through negotiations,either bilaterally or multilaterally, through the Geneva-basedUnited Nations agency, General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade,GATT.    Denman's comments came as the Senate was to begin debatethis week on a major trade bill.    "It is dangerous to establish a rule that trading partnersrunning a surplus with the United States should be beaten overthe head if trade barriers objected to by the United States arenot removed within a certain time-scale," said Denman in anapparent reference to some of the measures in the congressionaltrade bill.    "If we turn to the path of unilateral action, retaliationand counter-retaliation, the one-world (GATT) trading systemwill very quickly unravel," he said.    Denman said the 170 billion dlr U.S. trade deficit was notpurely the result of unfair trade practices by foreign nations.    "The trade deficit results from a combination ofmacroeconomic factors (the U.S. budget deficit), the exchangerate and the competitiveness of (U.S.) domestic industry,"Denman said.    He also said that Washington employed what he termed unfairtrade prctices.    He said the European Community had recently updated a listof some 30 U.S. trade barriers that impede EC exports.    "We did not circulate this list with any hostile oraggressive intent. We did so to set the record straight," Denmansaid. Reuter
JAPAN MINISTRY SAYS DOLLAR SHOULD BE ABOVE 170 YEN The dollar should worth more than 170 yenbased on purchasing power parity, the Ministry of InternationalTrade and Industry (MITI) said in its annual white paper oninternational trade.    Using 1973 as a base year, the ministry said inflationdifferentials pointed to a yen/dollar rate of 172 in fourthquarter 1986. The dollar opened here today at 144.90 yen.    MITI also said the so-called "J-curve" and the drop in oilprices together accounted for 33.2 billion dlrs of the 36.6billion dlr rise in Japan's trade surplus last year.    On a customs cleared basis, the Japanese trade surplus roseto a record 82.66 billion dlrs last year.    The ministry said the fall in oil prices accounted for 16.5billion dlrs and the "J-curve" 17.2 billion dlrs of the rise inthe 1986 surplus.    Analyzing the expansion in Japan's trade imbalance inrecent years, MITI calculated that 37 pct of it could beaccounted for by exchange rates, 24 pct by differences ineconomic growth rates between Japan and other countries, and 36pct by so-called price elasticities of imports and exports.    Analyzing the expansion in the U.S. Trade deficit from 1982to 1985, the ministry said 24 pct was accounted for by exchangerates, 34 pct by differences in the income elasticity ofimports and exports and 39 pct by differences in economicgrowth rates. The figures do not tally to 100 pct because otherminor factors have been left out.    "One index of trade structure, the income elasticity ofexports and imports, shows that the U.S. Is more likely toexperience increases in imports, while Japan is structurallypredisposed to growth in exports," MITI said.    Structural adjustment is already underway in Japan, underthe impact of the strong yen, MITI said. Japanese companies arestepping up their imports and expanding capacity overseas.    Japanese consumer attitudes are also changing. The ministrycited a survey showing that price was now the number one factorin the purchase of imports from the U.S. And Western Europe,replacing design and brand reputations.    "The smooth adjustment of the economic structure calls formeasures to address the needs of affected firms," it said. "Wholeindustries have felt the pinch and employment is expected tosuffer."    "Sustained economic growth, led by domestic demand, willalso be an essential condition," the ministry said.    It said four structural factors have contributed to thegrowth of the U.S. Trade deficit in recent years -- a declinein U.S. Industrial competitiveness, insufficient productivecapacity, an increase in foreign procurement by U.S. Companiesand short-sighted U.S. Management attitudes.    "While (U.S.) exports have picked up somewhat with thedollar's fall in value, no marked improvements have appeared inthe import picture," MITI said. REUTER
ASEAN SEES CLOSER ECONOMIC TIES WITH JAPAN Foreign Ministers of the Associationof South-east Asian Nations (ASEAN) said they expect closereconomic ties with Japan.    A communique issued at the end of a two-day ministerialmeeting said Asean hoped for greater Japanese investment in theregion, better access for Asean products in the Japanese marketand larger numbers of visiting Japanese tourists.    The ministers are due to start four days of talks tomorrowwith officials of the U.S., Japan, the European Community, NewZealand, Australia and Canada, including Secretary of StateGeorge Shultz and Japan's Foreign Minister Tadashi Kuranari.    The Asean communique noted Japan's large trade surplus,which it said would enable Tokyo to play a greater role in theeconomic development of ASEAN and in facilitating closer ASEANeconomic cooperation.    "Japan could also help to facilitate the flow of Japaneseinvestments to ASEAN through the provision of attractivefinancial assistance and incentives for its private sector," itsaid.    The communique also welcomed President Reagan's firm actionin vetoing trade protectionist measures in the Congress.     The communique said the ASEAN ministers were concernedover the proliferation of protectionist policies, pressures andmeasures in developed countries, the continued depressed levelof commodity prices, the instability of exchange rates and thelack of a comprehensive solution to the world debt situation. REUTER
TAIWAN PARLIAMENT BACKS FREE CAPITAL OUTFLOWS Parliament approved a proposal to dropall controls on capital outflows, raising the prospect thatTaiwan's vast resevoir of foreign exchange will flow into theworld economy.    A government spokesman said the new law would bepromulgated by President Chiang Ching-Kuo within 10 days andfinancial authorities would then be empowered to lift controlson currency outflows at any time.    Tight restrictions on capital inflows introduced this yearwill remain in place, the spokesman said.    Central Bank Governor Chang Chi-Cheng has said the controlswill be lifted at the end of next month or early in August.    The central bank and finance ministry proposed liftingcurrency restrictions to help reduce Taiwan's foreign exchangereserves, which stand at about 60 billion U.S. Dlrs and haveled to runaway growth in money supply.    The reserves, the world's third largest after Japan andWest Germany, also draw attention to Taiwan's huge tradesurplus and the government fears they are making the island atarget for U.S. Trade protectionism.    The surplus rose 34 pct to a record 7.32 billion U.S. Dlrsin the first five months of this year and about 90 pct of itwas with the United States.    Money supply rose a seasonally adjusted 51.9 pct in theyear to end-April, raising fears of higher inflation.    Local bankers and economists say when the controls arelifted, businessmen will be allowed to buy foreign currency andinvest it freely overseas. But they warn against expectationsof a sudden outflow of capital.    "I don't think we're going to see a big bang," John Brinsden,the Taiwan manager of Standard Chartered Bank told Reuters in arecent interview.    Bankers said that businessmen have been holding vastquantities of foreign exchange overseas for many years and alsohave been freely buying and exporting currency through aflourishing black-market.    "Obviously there will be an outflow of funds ... But I don'tthink it's going to be much," said Danny Chan, director ofFidelity Securities Investment Consulting Corp.    Economists say the success of plans to encourage capitaloutflow depend on whether the central bank can slow the rise ofthe local currency.    The Taiwan dollar has risen by about 23 pct against theU.S. Dollar since September 1983, prompting an inflow ofspeculative money. It rose by one Taiwan cent today to close at31.08.    The government spokesman said the new law does not empowerauthorities to permanently lift capital controls, but anyproposal to reimpose them would need the approval ofparliament.    Many economists believe that once the controls are liftedit will be almost impossible to reimpose them. REUTER
SHULTZ PREDICTS RAPID NARROWING OF U.S. TRADE GAP Secretary of State George Shultz saidthe U.S. Would erase its large foreign trade deficit fasterthan many predicted, and the consequences for its tradepartners might be traumatic.    "The U.S. Economy will inevitably make the adjustmentnecessary to move from a deficit to a surplus trade balance inorder to service our growing foreign debt," he told a conferenceattended by the six members of the Association of SoutheastAsian Nations and their leading Western friends.    "In my view, this will happen more rapidly than manyobservers now predict."    "The universal strategy of aggressive export-led growth isbecoming less effective," Shultz said.    "It is not arithmetically possible for every country in theworld to be a net exporter at the same time. The U.S. Deficit,which we all decry, has been in a sense the place into whicheveryone's export-led strategy for growth has gone."    "The huge surpluses of Japan and (West) Germany have fed onthis deficit, so something will have to give and it will bepossibly a traumatic experience," he added.    "While you must keep up the pressure on us to eschewprotectionist policies, you must act too," Shultz said.    "I can do a better job of convincing the Congress to leaveour door open to imports if more of our trading partners opentheir doors wider," he told the group, which includedrepresentatives from Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand andthe European Community. REUTER
AUSTRIAN CURRENT SURPLUS GROWS IN FOUR MONTHS Austria's current account surplus grew to11.0 billion schillings in the first four months this year from8.2 billion in the same period last year, the National Banksaid.    In April, the current account recorded a deficit of 300 mlnschillings compared with an 800 mln surplus in March and an 800mln deficit in April, 1986, the bank said in a statement.    The trade deficit in the first four months fell to 16.4billion schillings from 17.5 billion in the same period lastyear while in April the deficit was 4.1 billion compared with6.9 billion in March and 3.6 billion in April, 1986. REUTER
U.S. SENATORS PROPOSE BAN ON TOSHIBA IMPORTS Three U.S. Senators said they willpropose a temporary ban on imports of all Toshiba products dueto the company's illegal sales of sensitive high-technologygoods to the Soviet Union.    Senator Jake Garn, John Heinz and Richard Selby said at ahearing of the senate banking committee on export control, theywill offer the proposal as part of a major trade bill when itis brought before the senate this summer.    Garn, a Utah Republican, said "I am talking about specificretribution on a company that endangers the security of theirown country and ours." Reuter
ITALIAN BALANCE OF PAYMENTS IN DEFICIT IN MAY Italy's overall balance of payments showeda deficit of 3,211 billion lire in May compared with a surplusof 2,040 billion in April, provisional Bank of Italy figuresshow.    The May deficit compares with a surplus of 1,555 billionlire in the corresponding month of 1986.    For the first five months of 1987, the overall balance ofpayments showed a surplus of 299 billion lire against a deficitof 2,854 billion in the corresponding 1986 period. REUTER
ECUADOR HAS TRADE SURPLUS IN FIRST FOUR MONTHS Ecuador posted a trade surplus of 10.6 mlndlrs in the first four months of 1987 compared with a surplusof 271.7 mln in the same period in 1986, the central bank ofEcuador said in its latest monthly report.    Ecuador suspended sales of crude oil, its principal exportproduct, in March after an earthquake destroyed part of itsoil-producing infrastructure.    Exports in the first four months of 1987 were around 639mln dlrs and imports 628.3 mln, compared with 771 mln and 500mln respectively in the same period last year.    Exports of crude and products in the first four months werearound 256.1 mln dlrs, compared with 403.3 mln in the sameperiod in 1986. The central bank said that between January andMay Ecuador sold 16.1 mln barrels of crude and 2.3 mln barrelsof products, compared with 32 mln and 2.7 mln respectively inthe same period last year.    Ecuador's international reserves at the end of May werearound 120.9 mln dlrs, compared with 118.6 mln at the end ofApril and 141.3 mln at the end of May 1986, the central banksaid. gold reserves were 165.7 mln dlrs at the end of Maycompared with 124.3 mln at the end of April. Reuter
EUROPEAN COMMUNITY CRITICISES U.S TRADE MEASURES The European Community (EC) accused theUnited States of violating a political commitment to free tradethrough practices including a tax on imported gasoline and acustoms user fee.    EC ambassador Tran Van-Thinh made the formal charge to thesurveillance body of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade(GATT), GATT spokesman David Woods told reporters.    Woods also said the EC was joined by the United States incriticising Brazil for extending its list of products for whichimport licenses have been temporarily suspended, so as toimprove its balance of payments.    The United States charged Japan with violating GATT rulesby restricting imports of agricultural products through animport licensing system. The United States asked forconsultations with Tokyo on the issue.    Tran charged that the trade measures contravened apolitical commitment to halt and reverse trade barriers,pledged by ministers in Punta del Este last September.    When ministers established the four year Uruguay round tonegotiate freer trade in 13 areas, they set up the GATTsurveillance body to monitor this commitment, known in GATTjargon as "standstill and rollback."    Tran criticised Washington for the "superfund" tax on oilimports, a customs user fee, and the removal of a specialmachine tool (known as category FSC34) from its governmentprocurement list for reasons of national security.    Warren Lavorel, a U.S. Trade official, defended thepolicies, saying they did not violate GATT trade rules.    The surveillance body will send a record of today's talksto the Trade Negotiating Committee, which oversees the round,to decide any further action on the charges.    The oil tax and customs user fee have already been thesubject of formal GATT dispute panels set up outside theUruguay Round to rule on the legality of the practices.    The ruling GATT Council yesterday adopted a dispute panel'sreport and ruled that the U.S. Superfund tax on oil importsbreached trade rules. It called on Washington to modify itslegislation.    Mexico and Canada, along with the European Community,brought the dispute to the GATT last year. Reuter
U.S. SAID UNFAIRLY PROTECTING DEFENSE INDUSTRY Britain's Defence Minister George Youngersaid the U.S. Was unfairly protecting its defence industry, andthis could lead to British firms demanding counter-measures.    Younger told a U.S. Chamber of Commerce meeting that U.S.Legislators were failing to realise "the true nature of thetwo-way street in terms of ideas, technology and equipment.    A British parliamentary report said that up to MarchBritish firms had been awarded just 34 mln dlrs worth ofcontracts for the Strategic Defence Initiative, compared withthe 1.5 billion dlrs Britain had hoped to secure.    The committee said U.S. Technology export restrictions and"selectiveness" towards foreign contractors had denied Britishcompetitors more lucrative orders and largely excluded themfrom technological research for SDI.    Younger said London had given U.S. Companies contractsunder conditions of fair and open competition. "All we ask isfor our companies to be given similar opportunities," he added.    If new American legislation aimed at curbing unfairsubsidies was used to exclude foreign suppliers it would not besurprising if British firms pressed for retaliatory measures,Younger said. REUTER
JAPAN TRADE SURPLUS WILL GROW AGAIN IN 1987, OECD Japan's trade surplus is likely tocontinue to grow in 1987, as sales of Japanese goods abroadincrease while domestic demand remains sluggish, theOrganization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)said.    In its latest half-yearly review of the world economy, theOECD said Japan managed to considerably reduce its surplus lastyear, when domestic demand grew by four pct in 1986 whileexport markets rose by only two pct.    But it said this differential between the growth ofdomestic and foreign demand would reverse in 1987 and 1988,"thus weakening the international adjustment process."    It forecast a slowing in domestic growth to little over twopct but with a rise in exports of 3.3 pct in 1987 and 3.6 pctin 1988. As a result, the current account surplus in 1987 willrise to 95 billion dlrs from 86 billion in 1986, although in1988 it should fall back to 87 billion dlrs.    The OECD outlook did not take account of the 6,000 billionyen package announced last month to stimulate domestic demandand increase imports to Japan. However, OECD officials said themeasures will significantly strengthen domestic demand, quitepossibly exceeding one pct GNP when the full effects haveworked through, and thus will provide some stimulus to imports.    The OECD outlook said, "Continued large current accountsurpluses and the further build-up of an already-substantialnet external asset position could well lead to upward pressureon the yen." It said that further appreciation could then leadmanufacturers to postpone their investment plans and thusweaken domestic growth.    The OECD said Japan's Gross National Product was likely togorw an annual two pct in 1987 and 1988, below 1986's 2.5 pctgrowth. But it said Japan would continue its good performanceon inflation, with a zero figure expected in 1987 compared to a0.6 pct rise in consumer prices last year. Reuter
U.S.-CANADA TIES SEEN WORSE WITHOUT TRADE PACT U.S.-Canadian ties could worsen ifthe two nations are unable to reach a free trade pact,according to a study published by two nonpartisan public policyresearch groups.    The Cato Institute of Washington and the Fraser Instituteof Vancouver said removing the remaining tariffs on crossborder trade would benefit both countries.    But Cato chairman William Niskanen added "the two nations'generally harmonious trade relations are probably notsustainable without a new agreement."    The United States and Canada, whose cross-border tradetotaled about 125 billion dlrs last year, have been holdingtalks since last June on a pact to end the few trade barriersremaining between their two countries.    The U.S. put a deadline on the talks of October 1, but bothsides have said an agreement is likely despite tough bargainingremained.    Niskanen said if no pact is reached, bilateral trade tiescould deteriorate because of Congressional pressure onPresident Reagan to implement trade laws more aggressively, andthis could hit some Canadian trade practices.    He noted Canada is seeking foreign investment in its autoindustry, which could put strains on the considerable bilateralfree trade in U.S. and Canadian autos and parts.    Niskanen also said the Canadian government is vulnerable toa resurgence of economic nationalism which could restrict U.S.exports to Canada.    A free trade pact, backed by President Reagan and PrimeMinister Brian Mulroney, would open new markets for Canada andenable its industries to achieve economies of scale, whichwould also help it widen exports worldwide, he said.    It would also increase the gross national products of bothcountries.    Niskanen said the goal of a pact should be to end alltariffs within 10 years, lower subsidies on exports, set rulesfor trade in services and investments, end curbs on governmentprocurement and agree ways to resolve trade disputes. Reuter
SHULTZ WARNS ASEAN OF LOOMING TRADE PROBLEM U.S. Secretary of State George Shultzwarned members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations(ASEAN) they could no longer rely on increased exports to theU.S. For growth.    "Given the importance of exports, particularly exportmanufactures, to all of your countries, you are going to haveto work hard to diversify your markets," he said.    "While you may be able to maintain your current market sharein the U.S., You clearly will not be able to look to the U.S.To take major increases in your exports," he added.    Shultz told the foreign ministers of Brunei, Indonesia,Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand the U.S.Would cut its huge foreign trade deficit more rapidly than manynow believed.    He said ASEAN's looming trade problems would notnecessarily stem from protectionist legislation now beingcontemplated by Congress, "but simply because of the adjustmentsthe U.S. Economy will have to make in order to service ourlarge and growing external debt."    Shultz said the U.S. Deficit had resulted not from fallingexports but from higher imports that had fuelled world growth. REUTER
JAPAN'S JUNE INTERIM TRADE SURPLUS NARROWS Japan's custom-cleared trade surplusnarrowed to 1.61 billion dlrs in the first 10 days of June from1.97 billion a year earlier, the Finance Ministry said.    The June interim surplus compares with a 1.76 billion dlrsurplus in the same May period.    FOB exports in the first 10 days of June rose 17.6 pct froma year earlier to 6.05 billion dlrs while CIF imports rose 39.6pct to 4.44 billion.    The average yen/dollar rate used for the figures was 141.04yen against 169.03 a year earlier. REUTER
JAPAN MUST TRY HARDER TO CUT SURPLUS - MINISTER Japan must try harder to reduce its tradesurplus or the yen will come under renewed upward pressure,Economic Planning Minister Tetsuo Kondo.    He told a press luncheon he hoped Japan could cut itscurrent account surplus by some 10 billion dlrs a year until itis reduced to some 50 to 60 billion dlrs. In the fiscal yearended March 31 the surplus totalled 93.76 billion dlrs, orabout 4.5 pct of GNP.    The 6,000 billion yen economic stimulation package thegovernment unveiled late last month would help slash Japan'scurrent account surplus by five to six billion dlrs, he said. REUTER
REAGAN SAYS TRADE BILL FACES VETO IN PRESENT FORM President Reagan said he would veto aHouse-passed trade bill requiring mandatory retaliation for"unfair trade" if it reached its desk in its present form.    In a statement at a White House meeting with SenateRepublicans on the legislation, he said: "I would have no choicebut to veto that bill in its present form."    He said the measure "would move us exactly in the wrongdirection" towards high tariffs, trade barriers, tradedistorting subsidies, slow growth and crimped world markets,and would destroy jobs. Reuter
AFRICAN STATES AGREE TO REGIONAL TARIFF CUTS Fifteen countries in Eastern andSouthern Africa have agreed to cut tariffs on regional trade by10 pct every two years up to 1996.    A statement by the Preferential Trade Area (PTA), whichseeks to create a common market stretching from Ethiopia in thenorth to Lesotho in the south, said the governments would makethe first tariff cut next year.    In 1996 they would assess the impact of the tariffreductions and work out a new timetable for the completeelimination of all barriers to trade by the year 2000.    The PTA, set up in 1982, groups Burnudi, the Comoros,Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Rwanda,Somalia, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe.    PTA sources said the agreement averted a split betweenmembers wanting more progress towards free trade and weakerstates concerned about the effects on customs revenue.    The reductions cover only a common list of 300 or so widelytraded commodities and goods but PTA sources said theorganisation planned to expand the list to include 425 items. Reuter
CIVIL SERVICE STRIKE DELAYS U.K. TRADE FIGURES Civil service industrial action startedearly this month will delay the publication of May's U.K.Overseas trade figures, which had been due out next Thursday, aTrade and Industry Department statement said.    A department spokesman said the figures will probably beput back by about a month. The June trade figures, due in lateJuly, will also be delayed, he added. REUTER
LATIN, CARIBBEAN NATIONS OPPOSE TRADE BILLS A group of Latin American andCaribbean nations formally opposed trade legislation pending inCongress, saying it would curb their exports, slow developmentand hinder its ability to repay foreign debt.    Mario Rodriguez Montero, president of an Organization ofAmerican States special committee on trade, said he was awareof the large U.S. trade deficit, but added "the region shouldnot be the one affected by the trade bills."    He said the causes of the deficit were the strong dollarand the budget deficit, and "it is regrettable to solve it by atrade bill that would only serve private U.S. interests."    Rodriguez made the comment at a news conference after twodays of meetings with U.S. officials on trade bills now inCongress that are designed to reduce the U.S. trade deficit,which last year hit a record 166.3 billion dlrs.    Congressional observers say the bills are aimed mainly atJapan, Taiwan, South Korea and a few other nations with large,annual trade surpluses with the United States.    Mexico, Brazil and Venezuela are the only Latin nationswith large trade surpluses last year with the United States,but even Mexico, with the largest, had a surplus of only 5.2billion dlrs, against Japan's of 58.6 billion dlrs.    The European Community has also opposed the bills.    Rodriguez said the Latin and Caribbean nations backed theReagan Administration's opposition to many of the sections inthe legislation, including those to curb imports and to requireretaliation for foreign unfair trade practices.    He told reporters the committee would likely mount acampaign to fight the legislation when it comes up for debateon the Senate floor, expected next week.    Rodriguez said "the region needs trade to continuedevelopment.  We hope this need will not be affected negativelyby trade legislation."    Rodriguez said: "we need to keep the market opens -especially the U.S. market - to obtain the necessary foreignexchange not only to service the debt but also to continuenational development progress."    President Reagan has said he would veto any legislation hetermed "protectionist," and his aides now are mounting a effortto water down some of the objectionable provisions in thelegislation.    Asked whether Reagan was ready to cast a veto, Rodriguezsaid as yet "the administration is not in a veto frame of mind." reuter
U.S. ASKS CONGRESS TO REVISE TARIFF CATEGORIES The Administration asked Congress toreplace the U.S. tariff schedule with a new system to bring itinto line with international tariff categories, U.S. TradeRepresentative Clayton Yeutter said.    The new system will add such items as fiber optics and moreaccurately define new composites, items not widely traded whenthe current schedule was devised some 30 years ago.    Yeutter said the Harmonized System, as the new schedule iscalled, will change tariff categories and definitions to meetthe present-day needs of exporters and importers, but theyshould pay about the same rates of duties.    Yeutter said, "American exporters will find it far easier todeal with one standardized worldwide system than the variety ofdiffering systems which they now face."    He said the new system ended 12 years of multinationalnegotiations to create the unified tariff schedule.    Yeutter said government and business moves are based ondata from tariff schedules and the new system will improveknowledge of trade flows and the quality of decision-making.    He said 56 nations pledged to bring their standards underthe new system, with about half expected to join the system byJanuary 1988. reuter
ITALY DEFICIT NOT DUE TO LIBERALIZATION-MINISTER Italy's Foreign Trade Minister MarioSarcinelli, commenting on speculation in the Italian press,said a sharp balance of payments deficit in May could not beattributed to recent moves liberalizing the purchase of foreignsecurities.    Sarcinelli was reacting to suggestions that last month'soverall 3,211 billion lire deficit, which compares with April's2,040 billion surplus, could be linked to a May 13 decreeabolishing obligatory non-interest-bearing deposits on foreignsecurities purchases.   "The deficit can be better attributed to premature anddelayed foreign trade payments and receipts (leads and lags)rather than capital outflow to portfolio investment," Sarcinellisaid in a statement.    Earlier today the newspaper La Repubblica cited remarks bythe Bank of Italy, which announced the deficit for May and saidit had been partly caused by "non-banking capital outflows."    "In practice, it seems that there has been a constant flowof capital to foreign securities or investments outside ourborders," said the newspaper.    But the newspaper added that it was still not possible tosay how far the move to abolish foreign securities purchasedeposits had affected Italy's balance of payments. Reuter
BANGLADESH'S TRADE GAP TO WIDEN IN 1987/88 Bangladesh's trade gap is expected towiden in fiscal 1987/88 beginning on July 1 after thegovernment relaxed restrictions on some imports includingluxury cars.    The country has set its export target for the year at 1.1billion U.S. Dlrs against imports of 1.805 billion dlrs,compared with 1986/7's one billion dlrs of export earnings and1.113 billion dlrs of imports.    Commerce Minister Mohammad Abdul Munim said the changeswere aimed at encouraging export oriented industries to boostforeign exchange earnings and imports of essential machineryand raw materials, to increase industrial production.    The government was easing procedures to enhance incentivesespecially for exporters of textiles and frozen food andimporters of industrial machinery and raw materials, Munim toldreporters.    Commerce Ministry officials told Reuters the import policycovered only commercial imports amounting to 1.805 billiondlrs. Imports of capital machinery and foodgrains by thegovernment were not included in the policy, they added.    They said the country's total import bill (both commercialand other imports) was expected to reach 2.7 billion dlrs inthe new year compared with 2.4 billion dlrs in 1986/87.    The minister said ending restrictions on imports of carsand dropping 50 pct sales tax on small cars would not harm theeconomy.    Munim said Bangladesh feared a further drop in prices forits main export jute, "which will certainly affect our exportearnings" in the coming year.    Bangladesh's jute exports fell to 410 mln dlrs from 500 mlnin 1986/87, according official figures.    But Munim said exports of non-traditional items, whichaccounted for over 40 pct of total exports this year, wouldplay a key role in achieving the 1987/88 export target. REUTER
CANADA THREATENS BAN ON DANISH PIGMEAT IMPORTS Canada has threatened to stop importsof Danish pigmeat from July 14 after Canadian veterinaryinspectors approved only two of 33 slaughterhouses, a Danishagriculture ministry official told Reuters.    The Canadians postponed the original July 1 deadline at therequest of the European Commission, which Denmark approachedfor support.    Danish Foreign Minister Uffe Ellemann-Jensen said in aninterview with the daily Berlingske Tidende: "Denmark will notaccept a ban on Danish meat exports, and I am sure we can reachan understanding with the Canadians with the help of the EC."    Danish pigmeat exports to Canada were worth 106 mln crownsin 1986, while Canadian exports to the European Communitytotalled about 6.5 billion U.S. Dlrs.    Some Danish slaughterhouse officials expressed suspicionthat the Canadian action was in response to tightening up by ECveterinary inspectors on Canadian food exports to the EC.    But an official at the Canadian embassy in Copenhagen saidthe inspection of Danish slaughterhouses was based on ECregulations. "Canadian officials are very concerned about thetrade implications. We are holding active discussions with theEC and bilaterally," she added. REUTER
ARMISTICE ELUDES EC AND U.S. IN SPAGHETTI WAR Talks between the European Community(EC) and the United States have failed to settle a tradedispute over pasta, an EC Commission spokesman said.    Diplomatic sources said the dispute could provoke new tradefriction unless it was settled soon.    Washington is insisting that the EC comply with what itregards as an unambiguous ruling from the world trade body GATTand cut export subsidies which have allowed Italy to take anincreasing share of the U.S. pasta market.    The EC provides subsidies of about 16 cents a pound onpasta exports. The spokeswoman said the talks foundered on thequestion of how much the subsidy should be cut. Reuter
ISRAEL MINISTER SEES INCREASED EXPORTS TO U.S. Israel's exports to the U.S. can andmust double over the next five years if the mideast nation'sgoal of economic independence is to be achieved, said GadYaacobi, Israeli minister of Economy and Communication.    Speaking before an American-Israel Chamber of Commerceseminar, Yaacobi said that in 1986 Israeli exports to the U.S.were over 2.3 billion dlrs or about one-third of Israel's totalexports, while imports from the U.S. were around 1.8 billiondlrs or roughly one-sixth of the total.    "I am convinced that Israel exports to the U.S. can reachfive billion dlrs in the next five years, if we learn tofunction in the American marketplace and place greater emphasison product quality," Yaacobi said.    While the weakening of the dollar vis-a-vis Europeancurrencies is a "bottleneck to increasing exports to the U.S.,"Yaacobi said he expects Israel to extend its recent trendtoward higher U.S. exports.    In the last ten years, Israeli exports to the U.S. rosefivefold, from 417 mln dlrs to 2.3 billion in 1986, whileimports rose from 888 mln dlrs to 1.8 billion last year.    Yaacobi said export growth must increase ten to eleven pctannually, the rate achieved until the 1973 Yom Kippur War.     He said that the U.S./Israel Free Trade agreement, passedlast year and eliminating all duties and other commercialrestrictions between the two nations through 1994, wouldcontinue to facilitate the desired export growth.    Dual agreements included in the FTA allow Israel to act asan economic bridge between the U.S. and Europe, enabling U.S.firms to export to Europe at lower cost if a certain percentageof the exported is produced in Israel, and vice-versa.    Yaacobi said that tensions among the nations of the middleeast was one of the main reasons Israel had not yet been ableto achieve its economic potential.    Since 1973 the U.S. has given Israel 25 billion dlrs inaid, but most of it went to defense expenditures and financingmilitary conflicts "which were imposed on Israel," he said.    Short of achieving Israel's full growth potential, however,Yaccobi said it would still be possible to achieve economicindependence by 1993 or 1994, based on the assumption thatexports can be doubled from 1986 levels in that time period. Reuter
PAKISTAN UNVEILS NEW TRADE POLICY TO BOOST EXPORTS Pakistani government allowed freercotton and rice export in a three-year new trade policy aimedat narrowing the country's yawning trade gap.    Commerce and Planning Minister Mahbubul Haq said in atelevised speech the government had also decided to allowduty-free import of cotton yarn to make the textile industrymore competitive, and to link bulk tea imports to the export ofPakistani products.       Cotton and rice are Pakistan's main exports, which havebeen handled exclusively by state corporations since early1970s.    But Haq said now the private sector would also exportcotton and rice along with the corporations, which meets along-standing demand of the local traders.    The duty-free import of cotton yarn has been allowed tobring down prices and help the local ancillary industriescompete effectively in the world market, he said.       Haq said the new policy, effective from the fiscal year1987/88 beginning on July 1, would be for three years butreviewed every year.    It was a departure from the previous practice of announcingtrade policies for a single fiscal year, and Haq said it wouldenable the businessmen to plan their market strategies over alonger period.    He said an export credit of 250 mln dlrs had been providedfor the export of engineering goods to selected third worldcountries on soft credit terms.       Pakistan's 1986/87 exports at 3.6 billion dlrs, 18.2 percent more than in the previous year, and imports at 5.23billion dlrs compared to 5.63 billion dlrs in 1985/86.    He said the government policy was to rationalise andstreamline import controls.    "It has been observed that due to restrictions on imports,specially on raw materials and intermediate goods, localindustry has been suffering for want of necessary inputs," hesaid. "Prices have been on the increase and quality of goodsproduced has been low. This restrictive policy also gave riseto smuggling and hampering of exports."       He said that to correct this situation, 136 items had freedfrom import restrictions.    Previously, Pakistan has met its trade gap largely fromremittances from its nationals working abroad, mainly in theGulf. However, the remittances have begun to fall after thedrop in oil prices in recent years leading to the spectre of abalance of payments crisis for Pakistan. Reuter
U S WEST <USW> 3RD QTR NET Shr 1.46 dlrs vs 1.41 dlrs    Net 277.5 mln vs 268.3 mln dlrs    Revs 2.13 billion vs 2.14 billion    Nine Mths    Shr 3.95 dlrs vs 3.78 dlrs    Net 750.5 mln vs 718.4 mln    Revs 6.28 billion vs 6.22 billion Reuter
LYNG PLEASED EC TO OFFER GATT FARM PROPOSAL U.S. Agriculture Secretary RichardLyng said he is pleased the European Community plans to offer aglobal farm reform plan at GATT later this month, although theUnited States opposes key parts of the proposal.    "We're pleased that they have moved in tabling a proposal.It will help us in getting the negotiations underway," Lyngtold Reuters in an interview Tuesday.    Lyng's comment came after EC ministers in Luxembourgendorsed a farm reform package drafted by the EC Commission.The EC plan will be presented at the next meeting of Uruguayround agriculture negotiators in Geneva on October 26.    Lyng said the United States would oppose parts of the planseeking a market sharing agreement for grains, and proposingcurbs on U.S. soybean and cereal substitute exports to Europe.    The U.S. in July proposed to GATT the elimination of allfarm subsidies affecting trade within ten years, and haspressed the EC to make a counter-offer with the aim of reachinga global farm subsidy agreement by the end of 1988.    However, the EC and some U.S. domestic groups have said theReagan administration plan to end all farm trade subsidies isunrealistic.    Asked about such criticism, Lyng said "The alternative todoing that is to say that we preserve them and maintain them. Ithink that is the unrealistic position."    "I would suggest that they (EC) listen to what we aretrying to say."    Lyng also rejected suggestions the U.S. and EC agree afreeze in export subsidies to get the GATT negotiations started.    "All that some countries would like to have would be awheat agreement where we would stop export subsidies on wheat.That doesn't do a thing for us," Lyng said.    The United States wants an end to subsidies in a range ofagricultural products from dairy products to vegetable oils, hesaid.    At the GATT negotiators meeting next week Canada isexpected to offer a proposal as well as the EC.    The United States will be represented at the meeting byformer agriculture undersecretary Daniel Amstutz, recentlyappointed special U.S. negotiator on agriculture. Reuter
GATT CASE AGAINST JAPAN A MODEL FOR U.S. - LYNG Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyngsaid the ruling of a GATT panel on a U.S. trade complaintagainst Japan, expected soon, may influence the U.S. stance innegotiations with Tokyo on beef and citrus import quotas.    The ruling of a GATT tribunal on a U.S. demand that Japanend quotas on 12 categories of food items is expected by theend of the year. Lyng said he is optimistic the ruling willfavor the U.S.    "These are quota items, and the principles that apply tothem, it seems to me, will have some bearing on the question ofwhether you would have quotas or not on beef and citrus," Lyngtold Reuters in an interview.    He repeated the U.S. demand that Japan lift the quotas onbeef and citrus after March 31, next year.    The Japanese quotas on 12 food categories which the UnitedStates has challenged include items such as tomato paste, somecheeses and specialty fruit juices.    U.S. officials had hoped a ruling against the quotas wouldbe issued earlier this year but the GATT panel decision hasbeen delayed by the illness of the tribunal's chairman.    The U.S. has taken a hardline stance on the beef and citrusquotas, which Tokyo says must remain in place to protectJapanese farmers.    "We will not negotiate new quotas or accept new quotas (onbeef and citrus). If they impose them we would consider that anillegal action in the GATT, Lyng said.    He declined to say what action the U.S. would take nextApril if Japan continues to resist U.S. demands.    Reuter
ASA SAYS EC OILSEED POLICY ILLEGAL UNDER GATT The American Soybean Association (ASA)denounced European Community (EC) oilseed policies as illegalunder the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, andthreatened to make an unfair trade complaint if the EC does notremedy the situation.    ASA Vice President James Adams told an ASA-sponsoredOutlook 87 conference: "It will be filed unless the EC takesdrastic and immediate steps."    "These subsidies are blatantly unfair and are GATT illegal,since they were established after the zero soybean duty wasestablished in 1962," he said.    The ASA's unfair trade petition against the EC would askfor an investigation and modification of EC oilseed policies tomake the regime non-discriminatory.    The EC in 1962 ruled all EC oilseed imports duty-free, inan effort to fill its oilseed needs. But EC oilseeds productionhas risen dramatically since then.    The EC now guarantees oilseed prices to farmers above worldmarket levels and is considering implementing a controversialoils and fats tax.    The subsidies "are obvious attempts to circumvent the zeroduty binding and that makes U.S. Farmers mad as hell," Adamssaid.    The ASA is confident the U.S. Congress will support itstrade complaint, Adams said. The ASA also strongly opposes anEC proposal to tax vegetable and marine oils consumed in theEC, which will be considered by the EC Commission in December.    U.S. Soybean world market share has declined 35 pct involume and 40 pct in value since 1982, primarily as a result ofEC policies, Adams added.    Lord Plumb, European Parliament President and a speaker atthe conference, said the EC expanded oilseed production in 1973when the U.S. Halted overseas sales of soy products. Reuter
U.S. TAKES TOUGH STAND ON GATT FARM ISSUES The United States is prepared to "pull outall the stops" to defend its agricultural trade rights under theGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), U.S. Ambassadorto GATT Michael Samuels said.    Those rights are now being challenged by the EuropeanCommunity's (EC) agricultural support policies, he told aconference sponsored by the American Soybean Association.    He reiterated Washington's firm intention to retaliate ifthe EC goes ahead and bans imports of hormone-fed beef withoutthe issue being investigated by a GATT special committee.    The U.S. claims the EC directive, due to come into effecton January 1, threatens to cut 100 mln dlrs worth of U.S. meatshipments into the EC.    The U.S. also will oppose all EC efforts to impair U.S.trade via the EC oilseeds regime, which supports EC oilseedprices over the current market level and which may be extendedto include a hotly disputed oils and fats tax, Samuels said.    Reduction of trade-distorting world agricultural subsidies,an aim of most key participants in GATT multilateral tradenegotiations, "is meaningless if import barriers continue to beerected," Samuels said.    Samuels called the U.S. plan to eliminate world farmsubsidies by the year 2000, proposed at GATT in July, "visionary"and "very serious."  The EC and Japan have said it isunrealistic.    The EC Commission this month announced its draft proposalon farm trade reform, expected to be tabled at GATT formallynext week.    The EC scheme involves emergency measures to reducetensions in troubled surplus sectors of cereals and cerealssubstitutes, dairy and sugar. It also calls for reduction offarm subsidies.    The U.S. Is not opposed to short-term measures, as long asthey are directly linked to long-term commitments to end majortrade distortions, Samuels said.    Washington will review the EC proposal when it is formallysubmitted and respond to it officially then.    "We will consider its relation to the Punta del Estedeclaration to correct trade problems and expand market access,"the U.S. Ambassador said.    The U.S. can say no to the EC proposal if the EC ignoresthe U.S. plan when it tables its own proposal, he added.    The key difference between the two approaches is that theU.S. wants farm subsidies eliminated, while the EC is pushingonly for a reduction in farm suppports, Samuels said.    If the EC farm budget were protected by a subsidy freeze,there would be little incentive for the Community to work tocorrect the international trade situation, he added.    Samuels cited the animal hormones complaint, the ECoilseeds regime and an EC regulation concerning meat imports tothird countries as three crucial barriers to trade which theU.S. wants to see resolved under the auspices of GATT. Reuter
LYNG DEFENDS U.S. EXPORT SUBSIDY PROGRAM U.S. Agriculture Secretary RichardLyng said the United States will continue its policy ofsubsidizing farm exports to regain lost markets until there isa global agreement to end such subsidies.    In an interview with Reuters, Lyng also acknowledged he wastroubled by the prospect that the export enhancement program(EEP) could prove so indispensable to boosting U.S. exportsthat the U.S. would have difficulty abandoning it.    "Yes, I'm troubled with that a little bit," he said. "There'sno question about it, the longer you feed the calf on the cow,the longer it is to wean it."    In recent months, USDA has offered subsidies on a growinglist of commodities to an increasing number of countries.    Lyng called U.S. and European Community export subsidies"just plain nonsensical as a long-term policy" and said he saw anend to the expansion of the EEP.    "I'm sure there's an end to the expansion, but we are doingthis to accomplish our goal which is to regain the markets thatwe've lost, to keep our products competitive and to let those,particularly the European Community, who, we are convinced, arethe worst offenders in terms of the export subsidization, thatwe are prepared to continue to do this until we can come tosome agreement to put an end to it," he said. Reuter
EC AGREES TRADE DEAL WITH ARGENTINA The European Community (EC) agreed atrade deal with Argentina designed to compensate the countryfollowing the entry of Spain and Portugal into the group, ECofficials said.    Under the deal agreed by EC foreign ministers, Argentinawill gain additional trading rights on a series of productsincluding meat, fish and cereals by-products.    But ministers failed to agree on new trade deals withCanada and Japan and are due to study these again, theofficials said.    The deal with Argentina was agreed by a majority of ECstates after West Germany withdrew objections to increasedquotas for Argentina on high-quality beef.    Ireland and France continued to oppose the deal on meat,saying that the main dispute was over sales of cerealssubstitutes, but they were outvoted by the other states, theofficials said. Under the deal, Argentina will benefit fromimproved quotas on exports of beef to the EC. In particular thequota on high-quality Hilton beef will be raised by 4,500tonnes to 34,300 tonnes and quotas on frozen boneless beef willbe increased by 3,000 tonnes to 53,000 tonnes.    Argentina will also benefit from an additional quota of5,000 tonnes of frozen hake fillets at 10 pct duty and reducedlevies on 550,000 tonnes of wheat bran, the officials said.    The improved trade terms were offered after Argentina saidthat Spain and Portugal's entry into the EC affected theirexports of cereals substitutes to these two countries. Theyhave been negotiated under the rules of GATT (General Agreementon Tariffs and Trade).    But officials said ministers had been unable to resolveCanadian claims that its sales of certain fish to Spain hadbeen affected by the country's EC membership.    Officials said the EC had asked GATT to arbitrate on thefish dispute with Canada.    Ministers also decided to continue talks with Japan. The ECclaims that Spain and Portugal's entry into the group hasimproved trade conditions for Japan but has been unsatisfiedwith Japanese offers of compensation.    Japan's main offers were to improve inspection systems oncitrus fruits to aid EC exports, to improve tariffs for someother farm produce, to increase tariffs for leather footwearand to offer better trade terms for Spain and Portugal.    EC External Trade Commissioner Willy De Clercq toldjournalists: "We maintain our position that the (Japanese)concessions were not enough."    "We hope that there will be an improvement," he said. Reuter
SPAIN APPEALS FOR EC HELP ON MAIZE IMPORTS Spanish farm minister Carlos Romero,speaking at a meeting of EC farm ministers, called for actionto help the Spanish maize market, Spanish diplomatic sourcessaid.    Spain is threatened with massive imports from thirdcountries by the end of the year, they said.    They said the imports are due to come in as a result of theaccord by which the EC has promised the United States it willimport two mln tonnes of maize and 300,000 tonnes of sorghuminto Spain from third countries this year.    Around a sixth of this tonnage has so far come in under areduced levy system and the EC cereals management committee maydecide this week to authorise the Spanish intervention board tomake direct purchases.    The sources said Romero urged that other EC countriesshould take some of the imports to prevent disturbance of theSpanish market.    They said he threatened to withhold support for the ECCommission plan for new limits on farm output which if breachedwould mean price cuts unless Spain received some help.    The sources said no direct reply was given to Romero at themeeting. Reuter
ECUADOR POSTS 71.3 MLN DLR 8-MTH TRADE DEFICIT Ecuador posted a trade deficit of 71.3 mlndlrs in the first eight months of 1987, compared with a surplusof 468.6 mln dlrs in the same period of 1986, central bankfigures show.    Ecuador suspended oil exports, which made up 55 pct of thevalue of its total exports in 1986, for five months this yearafter an earthquake in March shattered the country's pipeline.    The central bank said the value of exports from January toAugust 1987 stood at 1.132 billion dlrs and imports 1.204billion dlrs. Net international monetary reserves declined to57.5 mln dlrs at end-September from 146.8 mln dlrs at end-September 1986. Reuter
BRAZIL'S SEPT TRADE SURPLUS HIGHEST OF THE YEAR Brazil's September trade surpluswas the best so far this year, totalling 1.494 billion dlrs,compared with 1.434 billion dlrs in August and 540 mln dlrs inSeptember last year, Banco do Brasil's Foreign Trade Department(Cacex) director Namir Salek said in a news conference.    September exports were 2.694 billion dlrs, slightly downfrom 2.76 billion dlrs in August. Imports in September amountedto 1.2 billion dlrs, against 1.32 billion dlrs in August.    Salek said the accumulated surplus in the Jan-Sept periodwas 7.857 billion dlrs, compared with 8.667 billion dlrs in asimilar 1986 period.    Coffee accounted with 320 mln dlrs of exports, up from 222mln dlrs in August and 212 mln in September 1986, Salek said.    The Cacex director said he expected the country's tradesurplus to average 800 mln dlrs in the remaining three monthsof the year, estimating the year's overall surplus to reach10.2 billion dlrs, from 25.6 billion dlrs worth of exports and15.4 billion dlrs of imports.    He attributed the good surplus on exports of manufacturedand semimanufactured goods. He mentioned car exports, whichaccounted alone with sales of 617 mln dlrs in the Jan-Septperiod, against 194 mln dlrs in a similar 1986 period. Reuter
U.S. MAY END ADDITIONAL SANCTIONS AGAINST JAPAN The United States may lift anadditional 84 mln dlrs in trade sanctions against Japan laterthis month, Reagan Administration officials said.    President Reagan imposed 300 mln dlrs in sanctions onJapanese goods last April for its failure to honor a 1986agreement to end dumping semiconductors in the U.S. and thirdcountry markets and to open its home market to U.S. goods.    The move raised tariffs to 100 pct from about five pct onJapanese color television sets, hand-held power tools andportable computers.    Reagan lifted 51 mln dlrs of the sanctions last June  afterJapan ended selling the semiconductors on the U.S. market atbelow production costs.    Semiconductors are the small silicon chips used for memoryand recall purposes in a wide variety of computers.    The Administration officials said Commerce Department monitors showed that Japan was ending its dumping of thesemiconductors in third countries, where they had been takingsales away from American-made semiconductors.    They said it was likely the 51 mln dlrs in sanctions wouldbe lifted by the end of the month.    The United States and Japan remain at odds over opening theclosed Japanese markets to U.S. goods.    U.S. and Japanese officials reviewed Japan's compliancewith the agreement earlier this week.    The periodic reviews are to continue and the remainingsanctions to stay in force, the officials said, until Japan isin full compliance with the semiconductor agreement. reuter
CANADA SEEKS FIVE YEAR FARM REFORM PLAN Canada will propose at the new round ofinternational trade talks that most trade-distorting farmsubsidies be phased out over a five year period, Trade MinisterPat Carney said.    "Agricultural subsidies and trade barriers have created avicious circle which continues to cause problems ofoverproduction and low commodity prices," Carney told the Houseof Commons.    Carney was outlining the government's new position on thefarm trade problem that was tabled on Tuesday in Geneva in themultilateral talks under the GATT (General Agreement on Tariffsand Trade).    While few details were released, Carney said the governmentwould also be pressing for an improvement in market access andnew measures to ensure countries do not erect artificialbarriers.    "Under the Canadian proposal, all countries would have toensure that domestic policies and programs to address thespecific needs of their farm sectors do not distort trade," agovernment background paper said.    "Furthermore, in assessing the trade impact of programs,credit could be given to countries which effectively controlthe output of farm products," the papers said. Reuter
US SAYS CANADIAN, ISRAELI PACTS SHOULD SPUR TRADE Trade Representative Clayton Yeuttersaid on Monday that the U.S. free trade agreements with Canadaand Israel should help to pave the way for liberalizing theglobal trading system.    He said the Canadian and Israeli pacts will not set backworldwide reform efforts under the General Agreement on Tariffsand Trade (GATT) as some critics feared but help them.    The GATT talks began a year ago in Punta del Este, Uruguayto liberalize the global trading system and to include in ittrade in agriculture and services such as banking.    Yeutter made his remarks at a U.S.-Israeli trade meetingmarking the second year of their bilateral accord. TheCanadian-U.S. pact, signed by two sides two weeks ago, has yetbeen approved by the U.S. Congress and Canadian Parliament.    The two free trade agreements (FTA) would gradually removetariffs and other barriers to cross-border trade in goods andmany services.    Yeutter said in the aftermath of the Canadian and Israelipacts "other countries have realized that if they want tocontinue to have access to the world's largest market, they hadbetter get serious about improving the GATT."    The pact with Israel, he said, is gradually increasingshipments both ways and the Canadian pact will substantiallyincrease the gross national products in both countries.    Yeutter also said the Canadian and Israeli pacts shouldserve as important precedents for progress in GATT.    Yeutter said, "increasing trade is one of the keys toenhanced political and economic stability around the globe."    He said, "a stronger GATT will enhance prosperity, not onlyfor advanced industrial nations, but also for other countriesthat need to increase trade in order to better their standardsof living."    Yeutter added it was important not to risk the progressmade in the Israeli and Canadian trade pacts by resorting toprotectionism.    He was referring to trade legislation pending in Congressthat would force the United States to take retaliatory actionsagainst nations with large trade surpluses with the UnitedStates if the countries practiced unfair trade.    The legislation was prompted by a growing U.S. tradedeficit that hit 156 billion dlrs last year and is stillrising.    Yeutter said the pressures for Congress to act were hard toresist, but the pending legislation would undermine PresidentReagan's efforts to liberalize the world trade.    Yeutter renewed the threat of a White House veto.    He said, "President Reagan will veto any bill that containsserious flaws, and I believe that veto would be sustained." Reuter
EC, U.S. PLAN HIGH-LEVEL TRADE TALKS The European Community is willing tooffer limited concessions to the United States on one of twomajor issues which threaten to poison their trade relationsnext year, an EC commission spokesman said.    He said the offer would be made at a meeting later thismonth between U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter and ECExternal Relations Commissioner Willy de Clercq.    EC Farm Commissioner Frans Andriessen told agricultureministers meeting in Luxembourg that the EC is willing to makesome temporary arrangements to lighten the impact on U.S.Exports of an EC plan to ban the sales of meat from animals fedwith growth hormones, the spokesman said.    Washington has said it will take trade reprisals if the ECproceeds with the ban from January 1 and if European countriesdo not quickly cut back what it sees as unfair subsidies to themakers of their Airbus airliner which are harming U.S.Manufacturers.    It claims the hormones ban has no scientific basis and willrob it of 130 mln dlrs' worth of exports a year.    Diplomatic sources said the Yeutter-de Clercq meeting willtake place in London and will also involve the aerospaceministers of France, Britain, West Germany and Spain, thecountries involved in the Airbus project. Reuter
REAGAN CALLS FOR VIGILANCE ON CERTAIN EXPORTS President Reagan said the CommerceDepartment should be vigilant in preventing the flow ofstrategic technology from reaching the the Soviet Union andother communist countries.    He was speaking at the swearing in of C. William Verity asSecretary of the Commerce Department.    Verity said the U.S. should make certain that militarilysensitive high technology does not wind up in communistnations. But he also said the U.S. must reduce the list ofproducts of a nontechnological nature, thereby allowingmanufacturers to increase exports and jobs. Reuter
U.S. HOUSE SPEAKER DENIES TRADE BILL HURT STOCKS House Speaker Jim Wright dismissedcharges that the trade bill before Congress contributed to thefall in stock prices on Wall Street.    "That is utterly ridiculous," the Texas Democrat toldreporters.    Treasury Secretary James Baker and other administrationofficials over the weekend pointed to the pending legislation-- which they brand too protectionist -- as a key factor in therecord-setting drop. Reuter
TURKEY CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT WIDENS IN JULY Turkey's current account deficit widenedin July to 674 mln dlrs from 454 mln in June but fell from 1.22billion in July last year, the State Statistics Institute said.    The cumulative trade position in July showed a 1.85 billiondlr deficit after 1.33 billion in June and 1.89 billion a yearearlier, with exports at 4.91 billion and imports, both FOB, at6.76 billion.    The government aims to narrow the current account deficitfor the whole of 1987 to 975 mln dlrs, compared with 1.52billion last year, up from 1.01 billion in 1985.    Bankers forecast the 1987 deficit will exceed one billiondlrs,  because a spurt in exports is expected to slowconsiderably in the last five months following a massivedrawdown of inventories. REUTER
PHILIPPINE TRADE GAP WIDENS IN JANUARY-AUGUST The Philippines' trade deficit widened to542 mln dlrs in the eight months to end-August from 159 mlndlrs in the same 1986 period, the National Statistics Officesaid.    It said exports in the eight-month period rose to 3.58billion dlrs from 3.18 billion in 1986, while imports rose to4.12 billion dlrs from 3.34 billion a year earlier.    The country's trade deficit totalled 202 mln dlrs in 1986. REUTER
