ARGENTINE 1986/87 GRAIN/OILSEED REGISTRATIONS Argentine grain board figures showcrop registrations of grains, oilseeds and their products toFebruary 11, in thousands of tonnes, showing those for futurEshipments month, 1986/87 total and 1985/86 total to February12, 1986, in brackets:    Bread wheat prev 1,655.8, Feb 872.0, March 164.6, total2,692.4 (4,161.0).    Maize Mar 48.0, total 48.0 (nil).    Sorghum nil (nil)    Oilseed export registrations were:    Sunflowerseed total 15.0 (7.9)    Soybean May 20.0, total 20.0 (nil)    The board also detailed export registrations forsubproducts, as follows,    SUBPRODUCTS    Wheat prev 39.9, Feb 48.7, March 13.2, Apr 10.0, total111.8 (82.7) .    Linseed prev 34.8, Feb 32.9, Mar 6.8, Apr 6.3, total 80.8(87.4).    Soybean prev 100.9, Feb 45.1, MAr nil, Apr nil, May 20.0,total 166.1 (218.5).    Sunflowerseed prev 48.6, Feb 61.5, Mar 25.1, Apr 14.5,total 149.8 (145.3).    Vegetable oil registrations were :             Sunoil prev 37.4, Feb 107.3, Mar 24.5, Apr 3.2, May nil,Jun 10.0, total 182.4 (117.6).                      Linoil prev 15.9, Feb 23.6, Mar 20.4, Apr 2.0, total 61.8,(76.1).                             Soybean oil prev 3.7, Feb 21.1, Mar nil, Apr 2.0, May 9.0,Jun 13.0, Jul 7.0, total 55.8 (33.7).        REUTER
U.S. WEEKLY SOYBEAN CRUSH 21,782,929 BUSHELS Reporting members of the NationalSoybean Processors Association (NSPA) crushed 21,782,929bushels of soybeans in the week ended Feb 25 compared with22,345,718 bushels in the previous week and 16,568,000 in theyear-ago week, the association said.    It said total crushing capacity for members was 25,873,904bushels vs 25,873,904 last week and 25,459,238 bushels lastyear.    NSPA also said U.S. soybean meal exports in the week were117,866 tonnes vs 121,168 tonnes a week ago and compared with84,250 tonnes in the year-ago week.    NSPA said the figures include only NSPA member firms. Reuter
FALLING SOYBEAN CRUSH RATIOS CUT OUTPUT The sharp decline in soybean crush ratiosseen in the last few weeks, accelerating in recent days, haspushed margins below the cost of production at most soybeanprocessing plants and prompted many to cut output of soybeanmeal and oil.    The weekly U.S. soybean crush rate was reported by theNational Soybean Processors Association this afternoon at 21.78mln bushels, down from the 22 mln bushel plus rate seen overthe past two months when crush margins surged to the bestlevels seen in over a year.    Active soymeal export loadings at the Gulf had pushedsoybean futures and premiums higher, prompting a pick-up in theweekly crush number.    However, much of that export demand seems to have been met,with most foreign meal users now waiting for the expected surgein shipments of new crop South American soymeal over the nextfew months.    U.S. processors are now finding domestic livestock feeddemand is very light for this time of year due to the milderthan normal winter, so they steadily dropped offering prices inan attempt to find buying interest, soyproduct dealers said.    Soybean meal futures have also steadily declined in recentweeks, setting a new contract low of 139.70 dlrs per ton in thenearby March contract today.    "Many speculators down here bought March soymeal and soldMay, looking for no deliveries (on first notice day tomorrow,which would cause March to gain on deferreds)," one CBT crushtrader said.    "But they've been bailing out this week because the Marchhas been acting like there will be a lot delivered, if nottomorrow, then later in the month," he added.    As a result of the weakness in soymeal, the March crushratio (The value of soyproducts less the cost of the soybeans)fell from the mid 30s earlier this month to 22.6 cents perbushel today, dropping over five cents in just the last twodays.    The May crush ended today just over 17 cents, so noprocessors will want to lock in a ratio at that unprofitablelevel, the trader said. Hopefully, they will now start to cutback production to get supplies in line with demand, he added.    With futures down, processors are finding they must bidpremiums for cash soybeans, further reducing crush margins.    A central Illinois processor is only making about 30 centsfor every bushel of soybeans crushed at current prices, downsharply from levels just seen just a few weeks ago and belowthe average cost of production, cash dealers said.    Most soybean processing plants are still in operation, withlittle talk of taking temporary down-time, so far. Butprocessors will start halting production in the next few weeksit they continue to face unprofitable margins, they added. Reuter
INDONESIAN AGRICULTURE GROWTH EXPECTED TO SLOW Indonesia"s agriculture sector will growby just 1.0 pct in calendar 1987, against an estimated 2.4 pctin 1986 as the production of some commodities stagnates ordeclines, the U.S. Embassy said in a report.    Production of Indonesia"s staple food, rice, is forecast tofall to around 26.3 mln tonnes from an embassy estimate of26.58 mln tonnes in 1986, according to the annual report onIndonesia"s agricultural performance.    The government officially estimates 1986 rice production at26.7 mln tonnes, with a forecast 27.3 mln tonnes output in1987.    The report says wheat imports are likely to fall to 1.5 mlntonnes in calendar 1987 from 1.69 mln tonnes in 1986 because ofa drawdown on stocks.    "Growth prospects for agriculture in 1987 do not lookpromising as rice production is forecast to decline and theproduction of sugarcane, rubber and copra show little or nogain," the report says.    "The modest overall increase which is expected will be dueto significant gains in production of corn soybeans, palm oiland palm kernels."    Constraints to significant overall increases inagricultural output include a shortage of disease resistantseeds, limited fertile land, insect pests and a reluctance byfarmers to shift from rice production to other crops, thereport underlines.    The fall in rice production is caused by an outbreak ofpests known as "wereng" or brown plant hoppers in 1986 whichlargely offset gains in yields.    The outbreak has forced the government to ban the use of 57insecticides on rice because it was believed the wereng are nowresistant to these varieties, and to use lower-yielding, moreresistant rice types.    The government is depending on increased production ofexport commodities such as coffee, tea, rubber, plywood andpalm oil to offset revenue losses brought on by falling crudeoil prices.    Palm oil production is expected to increase by over 7.0 pctin 1987 to 1.45 mln tonnes from 1.35 mln, with exports risingto an estimated 720,000 tonnes from 695,000 tonnes in 1986, thereport says.    But while production of soybeans in 1987/88 (Oct-Sept) willrise to 1.075 mln tonnes from 980,000 in 1986/87, imports willalso rise to supply a new soybean crushing plant.    The report says that imports of wheat, soybeans, soybeanmeal and cotton are not likely to decline as a result of lastSeptember"s 31 pct devaluation of the rupiah because of a risein domestic demand.    The report said that Indonesia"s overall economicperformance in calendar 1986 was about zero or even a slightnegative growth rate, the lowest rate of growth since themid-1960s. It compares with 1.9 pct growth in 1985 and 6.7 pctin 1984.    The dramatic fall in oil prices last year was responsiblefor the slump. REUTER
INDONESIAN PALM OIL OUTPUT EXPECTED TO RISE Indonesia's palm oil output is expectedto rise and exports to increase, the U.S. Embassy said in itsannual report on Indonesia's agriculture sector.    The Indonesian government said crude palm oil (CPO) outputis expected to rise to 1.56 mln tonnes in 1987 and 2.11 mln in1988, up from a projected 1.45 mln tonnes in 1986 and 1.26 mlnin 1985.    The 1986 projection of 1.45 mln tonnes is up from aprovisional figure of 1.3 mln tonnes.    A U.S. Embassy assessment puts 1987 output at 1.45 mlntonnes, against 1.35 mln in 1986 and 1.208 mln in 1985.    "More realistic estimates indicate that 1988 production willbe between 1.5 and 1.6 mln tonnes," the report said.    The report said the abolition of the five pct CPO exporttax, the devaluation of the rupiah in September 1986 and higherinternational palm oil prices should lead to a modest increasein exports this year.    Exports are forecast to rise to 720,000 tonnes against695,000 tonnes in 1986, the report added. REUTER
DUTCH OILSEEDS/FATS IMPORTS ROSE IN 1986 and oil-bearingraw materials, fats and oils rose to 2.16 mln tonnes on afat/oil basis in 1986 from 2.12 mln tonnes in 1985, theCommodity Board for Margarine, Fats and Oils said.    Exports of the same commodities fell to 1.35 mln tonnesfrom 1.38 mln on a fat-oil basis.    Fat- and oil-bearing raw materials imports rose to 760,000from 709,200 tonnes on a fat/oil basis and to 3.47 mln tonnesactual weight from 3.32 mln.    Soyabeans were the main component, with imports rising to2.82 mln tonnes actual weight from 2.75 mln. Sunflowerseedimports fell to 308,200 from 342,900 tonnes while rapeseedimports rose to 292,000 from 201,400 tonnes.    Exports of fat- and oil-bearing raw materials rose to28,700 tonnes from 19,800 on a fat/oil basis and to 137,200from 89,900 tonnes actual weight.    Soyabean exports rose to 119,400 tonnes actual weight from73,200 tonnes.    Imports of vegetable fats, including palm oil, rose to445,400 tonnes from 362,500 and exports to 151,500 from139,800.    Vegetable oil imports fell to 227,500 tonnes in 1986 from286,300 in 1985, and exports to 661,400 from 683,400 tonnes.    Soyabean oil imports were 32,000 (48,200), sunflower oil61,600 (92,800), rape oil 82,900 (94,900) and groundnut oil9,300 (12,200). Exports of soybean oil were 325,900 (338,800),sun oil 172,100 (189,800), rape oil 114,300 (103,400) andgroundnut oil 7,000 (10,400).    Animal fat imports rose to 371,700 from 345,800 tonnes andexports to 124,100 tonnes from 113,000. Fishoil imports fell to190,600 from 265,600 and exports to 56,500 from 85,500 tonnes. reuter...
INDIA BUYS 46,000 TONNES OF VEGETABLE OILS The Indian State Trading Corporationpurchased 46,000 tonnes of vegetable oils at its import tenderon Friday, market sources said.    The business was for April shipments and comprised 20,000tonnes of European rapeseed oil at 318 dlrs, 20,000 tonnes ofsoyoil, believed South American origin, at 314, and 6,000tonnes of Malaysian rbd palm olein at 347 dlrs, all per tonnecif.    Palm oil sellers were disappointed at the light purchase ofrbd olein and early trading saw the market ease nearly 10 dlrsunder Malaysian refiner and dealer selling. April shipmentstraded down to 326 dlrs per tonne, fob. REUTER
PAKISTAN TO TENDER FOR RBD PALM OIL Pakistan will hold an import tendertomorrow for 6,000 tonnes of refined bleached deodorised palmoil for second half March shipments, traders said. REUTER
YEUTTER BLASTS PROPOSED EC OILS AND FATS TAX U.S. trade representative ClaytonYeutter today said that if the European Community's Council ofMinisters approves a tax on vegetable oils and fats, anothermajor transatlantic trade row will erupt over agriculture.    In a statement issued by the trade representative's officefollowing a speech to the American Soybean Association's boardof directors, Yeutter said the proposed tax would have a severeimpact on American soybean farmers, who export some 2.4 billiondlrs in soybeans and products annually to the EC.    "This is an unacceptable situation for us and its(vegetable oils tax) enactment would leave us no choice but tovigorously protect our trade rights and defend our access tothe European market," Yeutter said.    Yeutter said the proposed vegetable oils tax would violateEC obligations under the GATT.    He said the effect of the tax would be to double the priceof soyoil produced from imported soybeans, making margarinemade from soyoil more expensive than tallow-based margarine,and closer in price to expensive European butter.    "I am astonished that the EC commission would propose sucha provocative measure so soon after we successfully resolvedthe agricultural dispute over the enlargement of the EC toinclude Spain and Portugal," Yeutter said.    "It serves no purpose to embark on another confrontationalcourse before the recent wounds have healed and as we arebeginning to make progress on the Uruaguay round (of globaltrade talks)," he said. Reuter
MALAYSIA RAISES DUTY ON PROCESSED PALM OIL The government said it raised theexport duty on processed palm oil (PPO) to 64.06 ringgit pertonne from 40.96 ringgit, effective from March 1.    Export duty on crude palm oil (CPO) was unchanged at 16.06ringgit per tonne.    The gazetted price of PPO rose to 796.8604 ringgit pertonne from 719.8286. That of CPO remained at 617.8238 ringgit.    The export duty and gazetted price of palm kernel were leftunchanged at 191.15 and 955.75 ringgit per tonne respectively. REUTER
PAKISTAN TO RETENDER FOR RBD PALM OIL TOMORROW Pakistan will retender for 6,000 tonnesof refined bleached deodorised palm oil for second half Marchshipment tomorrow, after failing to take up offers today, palmoil traders said. REUTER
OILS/FATS STOCKS SEEN FALLING SHARPLY IN 1986/87 Visible stocks of 17 oils and fats areprobably peaking now and are likely to fall sharply by October1 this year, the Oil World newsletter said.    Oil World forecast that stocks of oils and fats may be cutto only 9.8 mln tonnes at the end of this season, compared with10.6 mln a year earlier.    Its survey covered  13 oils -- soy, cotton, groundnut, sun,rape, sesame, corn, olive, coconut, palmkernel, palm, lin andcastor  -- and four animal oils and fats -- butter, fish oil,lard and tallow/greases.    Oil World's analysis predicted only a slight productionincrease of 0.5 mln tonnes in the year to end-September 1987,compared with increases of 3.6 mln and 4.0 mln tonnes in theprevious two seasons.    It said world consumption was continuing to rise. Unusuallylow prices prevailing since early 1986 had stimulated demandfor both food and non-food purposes, it said.    World consumption  could increase by a record 2.8 mlntonnes to 71.8 mln tonnes this season and would be even higherif the Indian government did not artificially curb domesticdemand.    Oil World said it did not expect the European Community(EC) to introduce a vegetable oils tax, but if such a tax wereintroduced it would have a negative impact on EC consumption. Reuter
U.S. REAFFIRMS OPPOSITION TO EC OILS TAX PLAN A meeting among government agenciestoday reaffirmed the strong opposition of the United States toa proposed new tax on vegetable oils and fats in the EuropeanCommunity, U.S. trade officials said.    Representatives of the major government agencies agreed ata trade policy review group meeting, which includes officialsof the deputy secretary rank, to continue diplomatic pressureon EC member states.    "We (all agencies) are together on this," said one U.S.trade official.    One source said the U.S. would continue to make clear tomember states and to the EC commission that if Brusselsproceeds with the vegetable oils tax "there will be a greatcost."    U.S. officials said no formal list of European products onwhich the U.S. might retaliate, has yet been drawn up.    "I don't think we're at that point yet," said one tradeofficial, adding that the EC has only begun deliberations onits farm price package.    Suzanne Early, assistant trade representative, told Reutersthe interagency meeting was to discuss U.S. strategy on thevegetable oils issue. Asked about retaliation, she said"sometimes its better not to be specific."    U.S. trade representative Clayton Yeutter Monday warnedanother major transatlantic trade row will develop if the ECproceeds with the vegetable oils tax. Reuter
ASCS BUYS PEANUT PRODUCTS, VEG OIL/SHORTENING The Agricultural Stabilization andConservation Service (ASCS) bought 2.3 mln pounds of peanutproducts at a cost of 2.1 mln dlrs and 7.4 mln pounds ofvegetable oil/shortening for 2.0 mln dlrs, for domesticdistribution April 1-15 and April 16-30, an ASCS spokesmansaid. Reuter
USDA COMMENTS ON EXPORT SALES  Corn sales gained 2,494,900 tonnes inthe week ended February 26, the highest weekly total sinceAugust 1984 and two and three-quarter times the prior week'slevel, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.    In comments on its Export Sales Report, the department saidsales of 1.0 mln tonnes to the USSR -- previously reportedunder the daily reporting system -- were the first sales fordelivery to the USSR under the fourth year of the U.S.-USSRGrains Supply Agreement, which began October 1.    Japan added 689,700 tonnes to previous purchases and salesto unknown destinations rose by 429,800 tonnes.    Wheat sales of 362,400 tonnes for the current season and151,000 for the 1987/88 season were down by more than half fromthe previous week's combined sales, it said.    Egypt, Japan and Iraq were the major wheat buyers fordelivery in the current year, while sales to China decreased by30,000 tonnes for the current season, but increased by 90,000tonnes for the 1987/88 season, which begins June 1.    Net sales of soybeans totalling 274,200 tonnes equaled thepreceding week, but were nearly a third below the four weekaverage. Major increases were for Belgium, South Korea, Mexicoand Italy, it said.    Soybean cake and meal sales of 103,700 tonnes were 2-3/4times the previous week's marketing year low, but six pct lessthan the four week average.    Major increases for West Germany, Belgium, Spain, Italy andAustralia were partially offset by declines to unknowndestinations.    Soybean oil sales of 5,400 tonnes were the result ofincreases for Venezuela and reductions of 500 tonnes forunknown destinations.    Combined sales activity in cotton of 75,200 running bales-- 44,700 bales for the current year and 30,500 bales for the1987/88  bales -- were 56 pct below the prior week's goodshowing, the department said.    Major purchasers for the current season were South Korea,Japan, Taiwan and Thailand, while South Korea and Indonesiawere the major buyers for the 1987/88 season, which beginsAugust 1.    Reuter
CHINA RAISES CROP PRICES TO INCREASE OUTPUT China has raised the prices it paysfarmers for cotton, edible oil, sugar cane and beets to reversea decline in output in 1986, He Kang, Minister of Agriculture,Animal Husbandry and Fisheries said.    The China Daily quoted He as saying China should adoptintensive farming to increase per hectare output and improvecrop quality and maintain arable land at 111 mln hectares. Hegave no details of the price increases.    On grain, He said the state will cut the quota it purchasesfrom farmers by 50 mln tonnes and abolish the practice ofpurchasing through agents.    He said the state will increase investment in agricultureand supplies of fertiliser, diesel oil and other productionmaterials and stabilise fertiliser and diesel oil prices.    The state offers cheap fertiliser and diesel oil andpayment in advance to farmers who contract to supply grain at alow state-fixed price.    He said China aims to produce between 425 and 450 mlntonnes of grain by 1990, up from a target of 405 mln this yearand an actual 391 mln last year.    He gave no more details. REUTER
SAUDI ARABIA BUYS 5,000 TONNES RBD PALM OLEIN Saudi Arabia bought 5,000 tonnes ofrefined bleached deodorised palm olein at its import tenderyesterday for April 16/25 shipment at 353 dlrs per tonne costand freight Jeddah, traders said. REUTER
VEGETABLE OILS MAY TIGHTEN DESPITE SEED SURPLUS Lower production of coconutand palm oils could lead to a decline in vegetable oil stocksthis year despite growing supplies of oilseeds, senior oilseedsanalyst for Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Mario Balletto said.    Balletto told a conference of Canadian farmers at AlbertaAgriculture's annual farm outlook conference that the worldvegetable oil situation is one of potentially tight supplies.    "Prices for edible oils appear to have more upsidepotential reflecting strong world demand and an unprecedenteddecline in the production of tree oils," Balletto said.    Balletto estimated production of palm, coconut and palmkernel oils this year at 8.5 mln tonnes, down from 9.1 mlntonnes last year, enough to offset higher oilseed output.    He estimated total vegetable oil production this year at33.4 mln tonnes, up from 33.0 mln last year, and disappearanceat 34.0 mln tonnes, up from 32.6 mln.    Unless oilseed crushing increases sharply, he said,disappearance of vegetable oils could exceed production by600,000 tonnes, the largest deficit since 1976.    "If world protein meal demand stagnates, thus limiting thecrush of soybeans ... the need for serious supply rationing inthe edible oils sector could develop," he said.    "This would be relatively favorable for the prices of highoil yielding seeds," Balletto said.    Oilseeds, on the other hand, remain at depressed pricesbecause of burdensome supplies, he said.    World ending stocks of oilseeds are estimated to increasefor the fourth straight year to a record 28.4 mln tonnes,compared with 25.4 mln last year.    The increase should result from lower disappearance, asproduction is expected to fall to 184.0 mln tonnes from 185.7mln last year, he said.    World soybean production in 1987 totalled a record 98.9 mlntonnes, up from 90.6 mln the previous year, Balletto said,while production of other oilseeds was lower.    Higher soybean production in South America and Europe madeup for lower production in the United States, he said.    Soybeans account for the bulk of the surplus, and U.S.stocks make up most of those, Balletto said.    The Commodity Credit Corporation owned 12.7 mln tonnes,about half of the world soybean surplus, he said.    Since 1983-84, he said, world oilseed stocks have increased13.1 mln tonnes.    "During the same period, U.S. soybean stocks increased 12.1mln tonnes, becoming the dumping ground of the entire worldsurplus, courtesy of the CCC and highlighting the artificiallyhigh prices caused by the U.S. loan program."    "Soybean prices and, to a great extent, world oilseedsprices are likely to be dominated by the loan program, as longas the U.S. soybean surplus continues.    For the 1987 crop, he said, prices are likely to hover in arange tied to the U.S. loan program.    "Upside potential for prices is limited by the huge supplyoverhang while strong underlying support is provided by theU.S. loan rate."    The problem is likely to become worse as the artificiallyhigh prices encourage producers in South America, Canada andAustralia to shift from grains to oilseeds, Balletto said. Reuter
MEXICO VEG OIL TAX NOT AIMED AT SUNFLOWER--USDA The Mexican Secretariat of Commercehas told the U.S. that recent implementation of a 10 pct advalorem tariff for fixed vegetable oils, fluid or solid, crude,refined or purified, was not targeted at sunflower oil, theU.S. Agriculture Department said.    In its World Production and Trade Report, the departmentsaid the increase in tariffs on this category which includessunflower, corn and rapeseed oils, was a reaction to importersusing basket categories to avoid paying tariffs on specifichigh-tariff products. Reuter
BRITISH MINISTER CRITICISES PROPOSED EC OILS TAX A British minister said that a proposedEuropean Community tax on vegetable oils and fats would raisethe price of fish and chips and he pledged the government wouldfight against it.    Lord Belstead, a junior agriculture minister, told theHouse of Lords the tax would raise the price of raw materialsused in many processed foods by about 100 pct.    He said revenue should not be raised by taxing the consumerand called the proposal "repugnant." Reuter
PAKISTAN COULD IMPORT 100,000 TONNES OF PALM OIL Pakistan is likely to import 100,000tonnes of refined, bleached and deodorised palm oil betweenApril and June this year, vegetable oil dealers said.    They said the import would be financed by the IslamicDevelopment Bank (IDB) which signed an agreement with Pakistanearlier this week in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.    Pakistan had imported 600,000 tonnes of edible oil sincethe beginning of the current financial year last July, theyadded. The palm oil would come from Malaysia or Indonesia. REUTER
CCC REALLOCATES CREDIT GUARANTEES TO EL SALVADOR The Commodity Credit Corporation,CCC, has reallocated two mln dlrs in credit guranteespreviously earmarked for sales of U.S. protein meals to coversales of vegetable oil and tallow to El Salvador, the U.S.Agriculture Department said.    The action reduces coverage for sales of protein meals to14 mln dlrs from 16 mln dlrs and creates new lines of one mlndlrs for tallow and/or greases and one mln dlrs for vegetableoils, the department said.    All sales under the credit guarantee lines must beregistered and exported by Sepember 30, 1987, it said.    The guarantee rates include a charge to provide for ayearly interest rate coverage of up to 4.5 pct on theguaranteed value, the department said. Reuter
INDIA BUYS RBD PALM OLEIN AT TENDER The Indian State Trading Corp boughtone, or possibly two, 6,000 tonne cargoes of Malaysian refinedbleached deodorised palm olein at its vegetable oil importtender today for Mar 15/Apr 15 shipment at 355 dlrs per tonnecif, traders said. Reuter
ARGENTINE VEGETABLE OILS SHIPMENTS IN JAN/NOV 1986 Argentine Vegetable oils shipmentsduring January/November 1986 totalled 1,693,951 tonnes, against1,469,208 tonnes in the same 1985 period, the Argentine grainboard said.    The breakdown was: cotton 4,000 (27,900), sunflower 929,847(816,727), linseed 113,827 (132,954), groundnutseed 26,248(25,508), soybean 603,335 (448,344), tung 8,402 (10,633), olive2,234 (3,465), maize 6,058 (3,677), rapeseed nil (nil), grapenil (nil), the board added.    Shipments during November 1986 amounted to 138,257 tonnes,against 109,250 tonnes in the same month of 1985.    The breakdwon was, in tonnes, cotton nil (nil), sunflower27,715 (43,064), linseed 5,228 (4,473), groundnutseed 819(3,647), soybean 104,314 (56,901), tung 20 (nil), olive 161(858), maize nil (307), rapeseed nil (nil), grape nil (nil),the board said.    The ten principal destinations during January/November1986, with comparative figures for the same 1985 period inbrackets, were, in tonnes:    Holland 201,660 (204,391), Iran 182,042 (181,228), SovietUnion 163,150 (266,389),Egypt 158,119 (159,350), Algeria116,330 (11,492), Brazil 101,116 (59,430) , South Africa 94,700(101,062) , Cuba 89,957 (98,740) , United States 80,109 (nil),India 67,182 (17,403), the board added. REUTER
INDIA IN COUNTERTRADE DEAL FOR MALAYSIAN PALM OIL India is to partially cover the costof its Malaysian palm oil imports through a countertrade dealinvolving the construction of two bridges valued at 20 mlndlrs, an Indian trade source told Reuters.    He said Malaysia agreed to the oil-for-bridges deal inOctober after India said it could no longer buy some 700,000tonnes of palm oil a year because of its trade deficit.    Malaysia has also agreed to barter palm oil for 30 mln dlrsof hydroelectric equipment and is interested in countertradingfor Indian iron ore, wheat and other goods and services, hesaid. REUTER
INDIA TOOK THREE CARGOES OF RBD OLEIN AT TENDER The Indian State Trading Corporation(STC) bought three cargoes of rbd palm olein at its vegetableoil import tender yesterday, traders said. Late yesterday themarket was reporting it had bought one to two cargoes.    The business comprised two 6,000 tonne cargoes for March15/April 15 shipments at 355 dlrs per tonne cif, and 6,000tonnes for May at 358 dlrs. The first two cargoes were on acash basis and the May position was transacted on a 30 pctcounter-trade basis, traders said. REUTER
BANGLADESH TO BUY 10,000 TONNES SOYABEAN OIL Bangladesh floated an internationaltender for the purchase of 10,000 tonnes of refined soyabeanoil for delivery at Chittagong/Chalna port by April 24, FoodMinistry officials said.    The tender closes March 28 at 0500 GMT. REUTER
INDONESIA DENIES GIVING PALM OIL IMPORT LICENCES Indonesia, the world's second largestproducer of palm oil, has not issued licences to import thecommodity, a spokesman for the Ministry of Trade said.    Traders in London said Indonesia has issued licences tolocal operators to import around 135,000 tonnes of palm oilstarting in April, but the spokesman said this was incorrect.    A spokesman for the Indonesian Importers Association alsodenied knowledge of the import plan. He said importers wouldquickly know if licences were issued. The Trade Ministryofficial said there was no sign of a palm oil shortage inIndonesia. REUTER
TENSE TRADE TIES TO DOMINATE EC TALKS Tense trade relations with the U.S.And Japan and concern about the foreign impact of a proposedEuropean Community (EC) tax on edible oils and fats areexpected to dominate talks by EC foreign ministers heretomorrow.    EC diplomats said Britain demanded the early debate on theEC Executive Commission's proposal to impose a hefty tax ondomestic and imported oils and fats in an attempt to head off aproposal it sees as extremely damaging to EC foreign relations.    The proposal was the most controversial part of a reformpackage, due to be discussed by EC farm ministers later thismonth, of the EC's Common Agricultural Policy -- widely seen asthe root cause of the EC's persistent financial problems and oftensions with major trading partners.    The proposal is described by its promoters as astabilisation program which would penalise a new sector goinginto massive overproduction and complement proposals to cutcereals and dairy production, rather than a straight forwardtax.    They say it would not only curb the growth of oils and fatsproduction and prevent imports from filling any vaccum left bya fall in EC output, but would also save the EC some twobillion European Currency Units, over two billion dlrs, in farmcosts.    It has provoked strong protests from domestic producers aswell as foreign exporters, led by the United States.    The diplomats said the protests had been received from mostcorners of the developing and developed world, ranging fromSenegal, Malaysia and Indonesia, to Brazil, Argentina, Canada,Iceland and Norway.    The proposal had little chance of approval by ECgovernments, with West Germany as strongly opposed to it asBritain, and Denmark, the Netherlands and Portugal alsounconvinced of its political or economic wisdom.    Even Mediterranean countries such as Italy, France andGreece, which backed similar proposals in the past, did notseem as enthusiastic now because olive oil had been added tothe list of products affected.    But the diplomats said a protectionist lobby in the U.S.And elsewhere was using the proposal as an excuse to promoteanti-EC action, and the foreign ministers' debate shoulddemonstrate the strength of feeling against the proposal withinthe EC and deprive its oponents of this argument.    The ministers were also due to discuss proposals in theU.S. Congress for a range of protecionist legislation such as abill that would curb EC textile exports.    The diplomats said the ministers were expected to stronglyback a Commission warning to Washington that such a bill, ifenacted, would provoke swift EC retaliation. REUTER
MALAYSIAN CRUDE PALM OIL OUTPUT FALLS IN FEBRUARY Malaysian crude palm oil (cpo)production fell to an estimated 270,400 tonnes in February froman estimated 273,300 tonnes in January and 332,995 in February1986, the Palm Oil Registration and Licensing Authority (PORLA)said.    Cpo stocks fell to an estimated 286,440 tonnes in Februaryfrom 287,940 in January and 653,411 in February last year.    Processed palm oil stocks in February fell to an estimated193,060 tonnes from 205,060 in January and 225,576 in February1986.    The January and February figures are subject to revision. REUTER
INDONESIA PLANS TO BUILD PALM OIL TERMINAL Indonesia will build a crude palm oilterminal at a new port on Batam island, south of Singapore,Research and Technology Minister Yusuf Habibie said.    The terminal will be able to handle 2.1 mln tonnes of crudepalm oil from new plantations in northern Sumatra and westernKalimantan (Borneo), he said.    A tender for engineering work on the Asia Port project willbe offered mid-year. Habibie did not say when the terminal wasexpected to be operational. Reuter
INDONESIA HAS IMPORTED PALM OIL, TRADERS SAY Indonesia has imported palm oil thisyear and is likely to take more, trade sources said.    They were commenting on a weekend Jakarta report quoting aMinistry of Trade spokesman as saying Indonesia had not issuedlicences to import the commodity. He also said there was nosign of a shortage of palm oil in Indonesia.    A major palm oil dealer said he shipped Malaysian palm oilto Indonesia in February, additional vessels were loading thismonth and other vessels had been earmarked for April.    Other operators claimed they had palm oil booked forIndonesia but would not disclose tonnages.    Traders said palm oil production in Indonesia this year hadbeen below expectations and current stocks were low. They saidlicences were issued at the start of the year to import crudepalm oil but were subsequently revised to include RBD olein andRBD oil.    Last week there were rumours in European markets thatIndonesia had issued licences to import around 135,000 tonnesof palm oil for deliveries commencing April. An IndonesianMinistry of Trade official said this was incorrect.    Some traders here said the total could be more. Others saidthey could include those issued earlier this year andapplications not yet granted. Reuter
U.S. SOY PRODUCERS THINK EC OILS TAX UNLIKELY American soybean producers areconfident the proposed European Community (EC) tax on vegetableoils and fats will be rejected but are leaving nothing tochance, American Soybean Association (ASA) president-electWayne Bennett said.    Bennett, who is leading one of three soybean producerdelegations on a lobbying tour of EC capitals, was speaking ata lunch.    After meetings at the Economics and Foreign ministries thismorning, he said the Dutch Government had indicated it wouldvote against the proposal, as had a number of other countries.    "Our information suggests we will have the required numberof votes in Brussels to prevent the tax proposal going forward,"he said.    "The proposal has been talked of in Brussels for the past 20years, and dropped every time. What we want now is to kill itonce and for all," Bennett added.    Backing up the soybean producers' active lobbying, the U.S.Government has also indicated it will be prepared to retaliatewith penal import taxes if the proposal does get through, hesaid.    The U.S. Government also feels it has a good case to fightthe proposed tax in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade(GATT), a U.S. Embassy spokesman said.    U.S. Exports of soybeans and products to the EC account forone-fifth of annual production, and are worth about 2.5 billiondlrs a year, Bennett said.    The proposed tax on oils and fats would hit U.S. Producersbadly while at the same time virtually doubling the price ofsoyoil in the EC, which would suffer far worse than otherhigher-priced oils because of the nature of the proposed tax,he added.    The revenue to the EC from the tax would simply be used tofinance the EC's own oilseed subsidy machine, he said.    "We in the ASA are dedicated free-traders. We helped defeatthe Wine Equity Act two years ago, but we will not stand by andwatch our own farmers suffer from such protectionist ECmeasures," Bennett said.    "The mood in the U.S. Is turning increasingly protectionist,and the EC's actions are fueling the chances of a trade war,"he added. Reuter
YEUTTER REPEATS RETALIATION THREAT ON EC OIL TAX U.S. Trade Representative ClaytonYeutter said the United States will retaliate if the EuropeanCommunity adopts a proposed tax on vegetable oils, but he didnot say what EC products would be singled-out for reprisal.    Speaking to the National Grain and Feed Association (NGFA)convention here, Yeutter said he is "cautiously optimistic" thecontroversial oils tax proposal will be rejected by the ECCouncil of Ministers.    Yeutter said the proposed tax is a "flagrant violation ofthe spirit of GATT" because it would imperil the zero bindingduty on U.S. exports of soybeans to Europe.    He said the Reagan administration has yet to decide on aretaliation list. The administration would not reveal aretaliation list unless the EC approved the proposal, he said. Reuter
U.S. EEP VEG OIL PROPOSALS STILL UNDER REVIEW U.S. Agriculture Departmentproposals to offer 260,000 tonnes of subsidized vegetable oilto four countries are still under consideration by aninteragency trade policy group, a USDA official close to thegroup said.    The official, who asked not to be identified, dismissed areport circulating in markets today that the interagency tradepolicy review group had rejected the proposals.    Under the proposals, USDA would offer vegetable oil underthe export enhancement program, EEP, to four countries,including 80,000 tonnes to Turkey and 60,000 tonnes to Algeria,Morocco and Tunisia, industry sources said.    The proposals "are still under review" by the interagencyworking group, the USDA official said. Reuter
EC COMMISSION DEFENDS FARM PROGRAM The European Community's (EC)executive Commission defended attacks on major elements of itsambitious program to rid the EC of its controversial farmsurpluses, after strong attacks from northern states.    Britain and West Germany, backed by the Netherlands andDenmark, opposed a proposed tax on edible oils and fats whichhas already sparked strong protest from exporters to the EC ledby the U.S. and from EC consumer groups, diplomats said.    But EC Agriculture Commissioner Frans Andriessen toldjournalists he had warned ministers that failure to agree thetax, proposed last month as part of the Commission's annualfarm price package, would leave a large hole in the group'sbudget.    He added that he hoped states had not yet made their mindup for good. "I hope the debate is still open, if not there willbe a formidable hole in the budget," he said.    The shortfall could reach two billion dollars in 1988 andwould be only slightly less this year, he said.    Foreign ministers were taking a first look at the tax aheadof farm ministers in a move described by diplomats asunprecedented and welcomed by Andriessen as a sign ministersrecognised the importance of reforming the EC's farm policy.    The proposed tax is designed to provide the EC with extracash to finance community oilseed crops at their current levelsand to brake a dramatic decrease in olive oil consumption bymaking it more competitive with other oils.    Andriessen noted the EC has over two mln olive oilproducers, mostly small farmers, who could be helped by thetax.    "What we are suggesting is reasonable, it should be betterunderstood not just outside the community but at home," he said.    Britain, normally a keen advocate of radical changes in theEC's costly farm subsidies system, warned the proposal toimpose the tax on both domestic and imported oils and fatscould seriously damage the EC's trade relations with othercountries.    Britain also warned that the tax could hit developingcountries already receiving aid from the EC, they said.    The Commission also defended proposals to dismantleMonetary Compensatory Amounts (MCA) -- a system of cross bordersubsidies and taxes to level out foreign exchange fluctuationsfor farm exports -- against harsh West German criticism.    In a letter this weekend from Chancellor Helmut Kohl to ECexecutive Commission President, Jacques Delors, Kohl made clearsuch a dismantling would mainly hit West German farmers.    Diplomats said West Germany again repeated its criticism atthe talks here but Andriessen told journalists that Germany hadbeen alone in its opposition. The question was a key aspect ofthe Commission's farm price proposals, he added.   Ministers also agreed a 3.5 billion dlrs scheme to rid theEC of its butter mountain, despite Spanish and Portugueseopposition.    The scheme will pay for the disposal of one mln tonnes ofunwanted butter, by selling it at knock-down prices, turning itinto animal feed or exporting it at subsidised prices.    National capitals are due to be reimbursed later out ofsavings from another plan to curb milk production.    Diplomats said Spain and Portugal have been angered by thescheme, which they feel forces them to pay for massivesurpluses built up before they joined the community last year,but the two countries did not block today's vote. Reuter
U.S. AGRICULTURE SECRETARY WARNS EC ON SOY OIL TAX U.S. Agriculture SecretaryRichard Lyng warned the European Community yesterday it willface serious retaliation if it enacts a new tax on productssuch as U.S. Soybean oil.    Speaking at a news conference before a scheduled speech,Lyng said he did not think the tax, which is still in thediscussion stage, would be approved.    He said the U.S. Would take serious retaliatory actionbecause if implemented, the tax would have a considerableimpact on U.S. Farmers. REUTER
ITALY STANCE ON EC OILS TAX NOT ENCOURAGING-ASA Italy's response to protests by U.S.Soybean producers about the proposed European Community (EC)tax on vegetable oils and fats had not been encouraging,American Soybean Association (ASA) board chairman GeorgeFluegel said.    Fluegel, heading one of three U.S. Soybean producerdelegations currently on a lobbying tour of EC countries, toldReuters in an interview meetings with officials from theItalian Foreign and Agricultural ministries had not yieldedmuch to encourage hopes that Italy would vote against theproposed tax.    Fluegel said his delegation had received a negativeresponse from the Italian Agriculture Ministry, but that theattitude of the Foreign Ministry appeared "more realistic."    He said the proposed tax was discriminatory against U.S.Farmers since it was basically asking them to help finance theEC's Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) on oilseeds.    Asked which EC countries might be expected to vote againstthe proposed tax, he said, "Realistically, from the informationwe're getting, it looks like the English, the Germans,hopefully the Netherlands and Denmark." His delegation alsohoped to convince Belgium to vote against the issue, he added.    Asked what form he thought U.S. Retaliatory action mighttake in the event of the EC tax proposal being approved,Fluegel said industrial as well as agricultural products couldbe involved.    U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng warned the ECyesterday it would face serious retaliation if it enacted thetax.    ASA president-elect Wayne Bennett said yesterday in TheHague American soybean producers were confident the proposedtax would be rejected. Reuter
Indonesia imports palm oil to counter possible May shortage, Trade Minis A very strong earthquake which strucksouthwest Japan killed one person and injured at least three,cracked walls and cut telephone lines, authorities said.    The quake, at 0336 GMT, registered 6.9 on the Richterscale, and officials issued warnings of tidal waves of up totwo metres high, they said.    A man died in Miyazaki prefecture when his truckoverturned, and another was seriously hurt when his roof cavedin, police said. Two primary school children were hurt byflying shards of glass as they sat in their classroom. Theextent of their injuries was not immediately known.    A police spokesman in the western Kyushu city of Miyazaki,one of the worst hit areas, said walls cracked all over town.    Weather officials told Reuters the quake's epicentre was 50km underground and 40 km offshore east of the city of Hyuga, onKyushu's eastern coast.    Maritime Safety Agency authorities ordered fishermen alongthe Kyushu coast to return to port, and dispatched a fleet ofsix search boats to see them safely back.    Telephone links with the island were badly disrupted andall trains in the area were been stopped as a precaution,police said. REUTER
INDONESIA TO IMPORT PALM OIL, FEARS MAY SHORTAGE Indonesia has issued licences totraders to import palm oil to avert a possible shortage ofcooking oil during the Moslem fasting month of Ramadan in May,Trade Minister Rachmat Saleh told Reuters.    "We have given permission for a small amount of imports toprevent a shortage during Ramadan," he said. He gave no figuresfor the amount of palm oil to be imported, but said it wouldcome from Malaysia.    Indonesia, the world's second largest palm oil producer,earlier denied it had granted palm oil import licences.    Saleh was replying to a question from Reuters after tradersin London said Indonesia had issued licences to import around135,000 tonnes of palm oil for delivery in April.    Indonesia, with 168 mln people, is the world's largestMoslem country. During Ramadan Moslems fast during the day andhave large meals after sunset.    Indonesian crude palm oil exports in the first 11 months of1986 were 469,100 tonnes, according to central bank figures,against 652,000 tonnes in the whole of calendar 1985.    Indonesia is expanding palm oil output, and Saleh did notexplain why there might be a shortage during Ramadan. REUTER
MALAYSIAN PALM KERNEL OUTPUT FALLS IN FEBRUARY Malaysian palm kernel output fellto an estimated 80,500 tonnes in February from a revised 83,231(originally 83,700) in January and 98,393 in February 1986, thePalm Oil Registration and Licensing Authority said.    Palm kernel stocks dropped to an estimated 45,870 tonnes inFebruary from a revised 55,693 (65,100) in January and 85,595in February last year, it said. REUTER
EGYPT REJECTS VEG OIL OFFERS, TO RETENDER Egypt rejected all offers at a vegetableoil import tender yesterday for unspecified amounts ofsunflowerseed oil and/or cottonseed oil, traders said. It hasasked for a renewal of offers on March 24.    Exporters said they were not prepared to offer material onEgypt's new landed contract terms which include a clause, "freefrom radioactive contamination." Offers submitted were on oldcontract terms, all of which were rejected. REUTER
COCONUT OIL CONTRACT TO CHANGE - DUTCH TRADERS Contract terms for trade in coconutoil are to be changed from long tons to tonnes with effect fromthe Aug/Sep contract onwards, Dutch vegetable oil traders said.    Operators have already started to take account of theexpected change and reported at least one trade in tonnes forAug/Sept shipment yesterday.    The Federation of Oils Seeds and Fats Associations, FOSFA,in London said it had previously advised traders to adopt themetric system for coconut oil transactions to bring thecommodity into line with other vegetable oils. REUTER
PAKISTAN-SWEDISH GOODS EXCHANGE AGREED Pakistan and Sweden have signed acommodity exchange agreement for 88 mln dlrs each way, thePakistan government announced.    Pakistan's exports under the agreement will include rawcotton, cotton products, cotton textiles, steel products,molasses, naphtha and fresh and dried fruits.    Swedish exports to Pakistan will include medical andlaboratory equipment, electrical telecommunication equipment,diesel engine spares, mining and security equipment,road-building and construction machinery, fertilisers and palmoil. Reuter
INDONESIA SEES LIMITED CHOICES ON ECONOMY Indonesia cannot spend its way out ofrecession and has very limited economic options due to lowerworld oil prices, Central Bank governor Arifin Siregar wasquoted as saying by the official Antara news agency.    "If Indonesia spurs its economic growth too much, such asthrough expansionary monetary and budgetary policies, it mightcreate negative effects not only on price increases, but alsoon the balance of payments," he told bankers and businessmen inthe North Sumatran city of Medan.    Antara quoted him as saying Indonesia is relying on itsexport drive to help narrow its trade deficit.    Antara reported that Siregar said the government wanted tohelp boost exports from the rubber and palm oil industries,which are centered in Sumatra.    "I see Sumatra has great potential, as in the plantationsector in which family units are employed in great number," hesaid, according to the agency.    Indonesia relied on oil and gas exports for 70 pct of itsexport revenue until last year's fall in crude prices.    It has projected its current account deficit will widen toover four billion dlrs in the current financial year endingMarch 31 from 1.8 billion in 1985/86. REUTER
CARGILL U.K. STRIKE TALKS TO RESUME TUESDAY Three consecutive days of talks betweenmanagement and unions aimed at ending the three month oldstrike at Cargill U.K. Ltd's oilseed processing plant atSeaforth, ended yesterday without resolving the situation,although some progress was made, a company spokesman said.    Fresh talks have been scheduled for next Tuesday, he said. REUTER
EC FARM LOBBIES BACK OILS AND FATS "TAX" PLAN The European Community (EC) farmers'and farm cooperatives lobbies, Copa and Cogeca, have backed theEC Commission plan for an oils and fats price stabilisationmechanism, claiming it would not harm consumers.    In a letter to Belgian Foreign Minister Leo Tindemans,current president of the EC Council of Ministers, they said themechanism, often referred to as a tax, would in fact subsidiseoils and fats prices in the EC under some circumstances.    This would have been the case in May 1984, when soya oilprices cif Rotterdam stood at 914 dlrs a tonne, they noted.    If such price stabilisation is not implemented, EC farmersshould not be the ones to suffer through their prices andincomes from the financial consequences, the letter, madeavailable to journalists, said.    Under the Commission proposal the mechanism would initiallyresult in a tax of 330 Ecus a tonne on both imported and ECproduced oils and marine fats.    The mechanism would provide for this tax to be reduced, andpossibly to become a subsidy, as world soya oil prices rosefrom present levels. REUTER
U.S. DELEGATION HOPES FOR VEG OILS TAX DEFEAT American soybean producers and processorsare hoping the proposed EC tax on vegetable oils and fats willnot be imposed, but say the U.S. Is prepared to retaliate if itis introduced.    Wayne Bennett, the American Soybean Association's firstvice president, told a news conference the U.S. Administrationwould not hesitate to retaliate, but both producers andprocessors were trying to solve the issue through negotiation.    U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Richard Lyng said in a letterto EC officials that U.S. Retaliatory measures would cover morethan agricultural products if the tax was imposed, Bennettsaid.    The ASA and National Soybean Processors Association (NSPA)delegations will meet top West German government officialstoday and tomorrow to lobby for support.    Bennett said West Germany, Britain, the Netherlands,Denmark and Portugal oppose the tax, but Italy and Belgium seemto have taken a hardline view on the issue.    "Europeans in favour of the tax say it would be to theiradvantage economically, but that is not correct because wewould hit back," NSPA chairman Jack Reed said.    This step would be very expensive for all and no one wouldemerge as a winner if the tax were introduced, he said.    Reed pointed out the U.S. Administration and the soybeanindustry view the EC proposal as violating the GeneralAgreement on Tariffs and Trade.    The proposed tax also violates the zero duty bindingsagreed between the EC and U.S. In 1962, he said.    Under the zero duty bindings pact U.S. Soybeans andproducts can be exported to the Community duty-free. REUTER
E.C. OFFICIAL SAYS FATE OF VEG OIL TAX UNCERTAIN Whether the European Community'sCouncil of Ministers will approve a proposed tax on vegetableoils that has sparked threats of U.S. retaliation is uncertain,an EC official said.    "It is very far from certain that it will go through," SirRoy Denman, Head of the EC Delegation in Washington, toldreporters before he addressed the Foreign Trade Association.    Denman noted Britain remains opposed to the plan and WestGermany has opposed it in the past.    U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter has threatenedretaliation if the tax is approved, as it would limit U.S.soybean exports to the EC. Council action is expected soon.    Denman said while the EC is willing to negotiate aboutagriculture in a new round of trade talks, it is unwilling tosingle out export subsidies on a negotiating agenda or putagricultural policy on a special fast track.    "The key to a solution in this area seems to me not in theframing of the GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade)wording...but in tackling government subsidies to farmers onboth sides of the Atlantic," he said. Reuter
BONN EXPRESSES SUPPORT FOR U.S. ON EC VEG OIL TAX The West German government expressedsupport for the U.S. Position in opposing the proposed EuropeanCommunity tax on vegetable oils and fats, a U.S. Embassyspokesman said.    The spokesman, speaking from Bonn, said, "We have goodreason to think West Germany holds to its resistance to theproposed tax."    Several top government officials told the American SoybeanAssociation and the National Soybean Processors Associationdelegations there was no reason for American producers andprocessors to pay for EC agriculture, the spokesman said.    European agriculture was facing severe problems, but boththe Community and the U.S. Should work closely within theframework provided by the General Agreement on Tariffs andTrade, he said.    The delegations will continue their top level meetings inBonn today but will not issue a statement before returning tothe U.S. At the weekend.    The EC and the U.S. Realised the tax issue would stay onthe agenda for several months and there were indications thatboth sides would have to prepare for some tough negotiations,the spokesman said. REUTER
INDONESIA PROTESTS AGAINST EC VEGETABLE OIL DUTY Indonesia has protested to the EuropeanCommunity (EC) about its plan to raise import duties onvegetable oils, which will affect the country's palm oilexports to the EC, Trade Minister Rachmat Saleh said.    "Indonesia, both individually and together with othermembers of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN),has protested against the EC plan to increase duties onvegetable oil imports," he told Indonesian reporters.    "We very much regret the community's plan," he added.    He did not say in what form the Indonesian protest wasmade.    Indonesia is a major palm oil producer.    According to central bank figures, Indonesia exported362,700 tonnes of crude palm oil to EC countries in calendar1985 and 301,400 tonnes in the first 10 months of 1986.Complete 1986 figures are not yet available.    Finance Minister Radius Prawiro said recently that theincrease in EC duties would add a new burden to ASEAN countriesat a time when they were trying to strengthen their economiesin the face of lower commodity prices. REUTER
PHILIPPINES CRITICISES EC FOR VEGETABLE OIL LEVY Philippines Trade andIndustry Secretary Jose Concepcion told world trade ministershe wondered if their agreement was of any real value after theEuropean Community (EC) imposed a levy on vegetable oils.    Concepcion, speaking at an informal meeting of the GeneralAgreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) here, said ministersdeclared in Uruguay last September that the trade ofless-developed nations should not be disrupted.    He said the EC not only ignored Manila's request for lowertariffs on coconut oil but introduced a levy on vegetable oilsand fats that are vital exports for Southeast Asian countries.    Concepcion said while the levy might be rejected by the ECCouncil of Ministers, he noted that "I cannot help but wonderwhether the agreements we produce in meetings like this are ofany real value."    He also said industrialised nations saved about 65 billionU.S. Dlrs in 1985 through low commodity prices, but this hadaffected the ability of developing nations to import goods andservices.    "The health and the growth of world trade requires that thenew development of developing countries losing their share ofworld trade be arrested and reversed," he said. REUTER
INDIA BOUGHT 24,000 TONNES OF RBD OLEIN AT TENDER The Indian State Trading Corporation(STC) bought four cargoes of rbd palm olein totalling 24,000tonnes at its vegetable oil import tender last week, traderssaid. Market reports on Friday said the STC had booked twocargoes.    The business comprised three 6,000 tonne cargoes for Juneat 346 dlrs and 6,000 tonnes for July at 340 dlrs per tonnecif.    It also secured a 20,000 tonne cargo of optional originrapeseed oil for May 15/Jun 15 shipment at 321 dlrs cif. REUTER
(CORRECTED) - PHILIPPINES CRITICISES EC FOR OIL LEVY Philippines Trade andIndustry Secretary Jose Concepcion told world trade ministershe wondered if their agreement was of any real value after theEuropean Community (EC) proposed a levy on vegetable oils.    Concepcion, speaking at an informal meeting of the GeneralAgreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) here, said ministersdeclared in Uruguay last September that the trade ofless-developed nations should not be disrupted.    He said the EC not only ignored Manila's request for lowertariffs on coconut oil but proposed a levy on vegetable oilsand fats that are vital exports for Southeast Asian countries.    Concepcion said while the levy might be rejected by the ECCouncil of Ministers, he noted that "I cannot help but wonderwhether the agreements we produce in meetings like this are ofany real value."    He also said industrialised nations saved about 65 billionU.S. Dlrs in 1985 through low commodity prices, but this hadaffected the ability of developing nations to import goods andservices.    "The health and the growth of world trade requires that thenew development of developing countries losing their share ofworld trade be arrested and reversed," he said. REUTER
EGYPT BUYS 46,000 TONNES OF SUNFLOWERSEED OIL Egypt purchased 46,000 tonnes ofoptional origin sunflowerseed oil at its import tenderyesterday, all for May arrival, traders said.    The business comprised 41,000 tonnes of crude sunflowerseedoil in bulk at prices ranging from 344.25 to 348 dlrs and 5,000tonnes of refined oil in drums at from 517.50 to 522.50 dlrsper tonne, cost and freight Alexandria, delivered qualityterms. REUTER
U.S. OFFERS MORE CREDITS FOR VEG OIL TO N. YEMEN The U.S. Commodity CreditCorporation (CCC) has authorized an additional 10.0 mln dlrs incredit guarantees to cover sales of U.S. vegetable oils toNorth Yemen, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.    The department also said at the request of the North YemenGovernment five mln dlrs in credit guarantees previouslyearmarked for sales of wheat have been switched to cover salesof mixed poultry feed.    The actions increase the value of credit guarantees forvegetable oil for the current fiscal year to 38 mln dlrs,reduce the guarantee coverage for sales of wheat to eight mlndlrs and increase the coverage for sales of mixed poultry feedto 10 mln dlrs.    All exports must be completed by September 30, 1987. Reuter
U.K. OILMEAL/VEG OIL PRODUCTION ROSE IN 1986 The U.K. Produced 820,400 tonnes ofoilcake and meal and 431,000 tonnes of crude vegetable oil incalendar 1986, Ministry of Agriculture figures show.    They compare with 785,800 tonnes of oilcake and meal and407,400 tonnes of crude vegetable oil produced in 1985.    Total oilseeds crushed rose to 1.27 mln tonnes from 1.21mln in 1985. REUTER
U.S. SENATE HITS EC OILS TAX, VOWS RETALIATION The Senate voted to condemn theproposed European common market tax on vegetable and marinefats and oils and said it would result in retaliation.    The non-binding Senate resolution, a sense of Senatesentiment, was approved on a 99 to 0 vote.    "The administration should communicate to the EuropeanCommunity the message that the United States will view theestablishment of such a tax as inconsistent with the EuropeanCommunity's obligations under the General Agreement on Tariffsand Trade that will result in the adoption of strong andimmediate countermeasures," the resolution stated.    The resolution said the European Community Commission hasproposed establishing a consumption tax on vegetable and fishoils and fats in conjunction with the setting of farm pricesfor the 1987/1988 EC marketing year.    The Senate said the tax would amount to almost 90 pct ofthe current price of soyoil and "have a restrictive effect" onU.S. exports of soybeans and vegetable oils to the EC.    It would be "blatantly inconsistent" with obligations of theEC under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, GATT, theresolution said, and "constitute another egregious attempt" toimpose EC agricultural costs on trading partners. Reuter
U.S. SENATE HITS EC OILS TAX, VOWS RETALIATION The Senate voted to condemn theproposed European common market tax on vegetable and fish fatsand oils and said it would result in retaliation.    The non binding Senate resolution, a sense of Senatesentiment, was approved on a 99 to 0 vote.    "The administration should communciate to the EuropeanCommunity the message that the United States will view theestablishment of such a tax as inconsistent with the EuropeanCommunity's obligations under the General Agreement on Tariffsand Trade that will result in the adoption of strong andimmediate countermeasures," the resolution stated. Reuter
MOST EC STATES SAID TO BE AGAINST OILS/FATS TAX A majority of European Community (EC)member states are either against or have strong reservationsover a tax on both imported and domestically-produced oils andfats proposed by the European Commission, senior diplomatssaid.    They said a special committee of agricultural experts fromEC member states had voiced strong objections over the measureduring a meeting charged with preparing the ground for theannual EC farm price-fixing which begins next Monday.    They added that only France and Italy had indicated theywould support the Commission proposal which would lead to a taxinitially of 330 Ecus per tonne during the 1987/88 price round. Reuter
USDA COMMENTS ON EXPORT SALES REPORT Corn sales of 2,806,300 tonnes inthe week ended March 19 were the highest level sincemid-November, 1979, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.    The department said the USSR dominated the week's activitywith purchases of 1.4 mln tonnes (which were earlier reportedunder the daily reporting system). Other large increaes wereposted for Japan and unknown destinations, it said.    Taiwan purchased 296,300 tonnes for the 1986/87 season and170,000 tonnes for the 1987/88 season, it said.    Wheat sales of 317,200 tonnes for the current season and125,000 tonnes for the 1987/88 season were down about one-thirdfrom the preceding week and the four-week average.    Wheat sales to China of 60,000 tonnes were switched from1986/87 to the 1987/88 season, it noted.    Soybean sales of 483,100 tonnes were 11 pct above the priorweek and two-thirds above the four-week average.    Japan, the Netherlands, Mexico and Portugal were the mainbuyers, the department said.    Soybean cake and meal sales of 289,400 tonnes weretwo-thirds above the previous week and the largest of themarketing year, with Venezuela the dominant purchaser.    Sales activity in soybean oil resulted in decreases of4,400 tonnes, as reductions for unknown destinations more thanoffset increases for Canada, the Dominican Republic and Panama,the department said.    Cotton sales of 57,900 running bales -- 43,800 bales forthe current year and 14,200 bales for the 1987/88 season --were off 25 pct from the previous week and 50 pct from thefour-week average.    Turkey, Thailand, South Korea and Canada were the majorbuyers for the current season, while Thailand, Britain andJapan were the major purchasers from the upcoming season, thedepartment said.     Sorghum sales of 178,800 tonnes were two-thirds above theprior week and 75 pct over the four-week average.    Venezuela was the leading buyer it said.    Sales of 41,800 tonnes of barley were 10 times the previousweek and 10 pct greater than  the four-week average. Israel,Cyprus and Saudi Arabia were the main buyers, it said. Reuter
INDIA'S 1986/87 CASTOR OIL EXPORTS FALL - TRADERS India's castor oil exports areprovisionally estimated at 30,000 tonnes in fiscal 1986/87,ending March 31, against 54,000 tonnes in 1985/86 due to ashortfall in the domestic castorseed crop, private traderssaid.    Drought in parts of the country is expected to reduce thecastorseed crop to a provisionally estimated 350,000 tonnes in1986/87 from 550,000 tonnes in 1985/86, they told Reuters. REUTER
INDIA BUYS 20,000 TONNES OF RAPESEED OIL The Indian State Trading Corporation(STC) bought a 20,000 tonne cargo of optional origin rapeseedoil at its vegetable oil import tender yesterday, traders said.The oil was for June 20/July 20 shipment at 321 dlrs per tonnecif.    Traders said the STC attempted to buy eight cargoes ofprocessed palm oil but its price ideas were too low forexporters. It also failed to secure soyoil for the same reason,they said. REUTER
ALGERIA SETS TENDER FOR RAPE/SUNFLOWERSEED OIL Algeria will tender on April 3 for20,000 tonnes of optional origin sunflowerseed oil/rapeseed oilfor Apr/May loading, traders said.    Meanwhile, the market is awaiting results of an Algerianimport tender which took place over the weekend for about10,000 tonnes of refined vegetable oils in drums, tradersadded. REUTER
MINISTER SEES ENOUGH EC STATES AGAINST OILS TAX Enough European Community (EC) statesappear to be opposed to the proposals by the EC Commission fora 330 European currency unit (Ecu) a tonne tax on vegetableoils, fats and marine oils to block adoption by EC ministers,British Farm Minister Michael Jopling said.    He told a news conference held during a meeting here of ECagriculture ministers that Britain, West Germany, theNetherlands, Denmark, and Portugal were all against the tax.    Between them, these five countries had more than enoughvotes in the weighted voting system used in EC ministers'meetings to block a decision, Jopling said. Reuter
USDA'S AMSTUTZ CONFIDENT OF EC OILS TAX DEFEAT U.S. Agriculture UndersecretaryDaniel Amstutz said he was confident that a European Community,EC, proposal to tax vegetable and marine oils and fats wouldnot be approved by the Community.    Asked by Reuters if he was confident the plan eventuallywould be defeated, Amstutz said, "Yes, I am, but I also knowthat things like this take constant vigilance."    The USDA official said the EC Council of Ministers held anad hoc meeting yesterday.    Commenting on that meeting, he said, "So far, so good."    Yesterday British Farm Minister Michael Jopling said enoughEC states appeared to be opposed to the proposals by thecommission for a 330 European Currency Unit a tonne tax onvegetable oils, fats and marine oils for the moves to bedefeated. Reuter
U.S. CREDITS FOR ECUADOR SWITCHED TO VEG OIL The Commodity Credit Corporation(CCC) switched five mln dlrs in credit guarantees to Ecuador toprovide for more sales of U.S. vegetable oil, the U.S.Agriculture Department said.    The credit guarantees were previously earmarked for salesof U.S. cotton, feedgrains and wheat.    The action reduces the guarantee lines previouslyauthorized for sales of cotton from 1.5 mln dlrs to 500,000dlrs, for feedgrains from four mln to two mln and for wheatfrom 45 mln dlrs to 43 mln dlrs and increases coverage forvegetable oil sales from two mln to seven mln dlrs, thedepartment said. Reuter
MALAYSIA RAISES PALM OIL EXPORT DUTIES The Malaysian government said itraised the export duty on processed palm oil (ppo) to 70.90ringgit per tonne from 64.06 in March, effective today.    Export duty on crude palm oil (cpo) rose to 38.30 ringgitper tonne from 16.06 last month.    The gazetted price for ppo rose to 819.6600 ringgit pertonne from 796.8604 a month earlier and that on cpo to 711.0037ringgit from 617.8238.    The export duty and gazetted price of palm kernel stoodunchanged at 191.15 and 955.75 ringgit per tonne respectively. REUTER
ROTTERDAM GRAIN HANDLERS STAGE LIGHTNING STRIKES Lightning strikes hit the grain sectorof the port of Rotterdam today after employers turned downunion demands for shorter working hours in a new labouragreement, transport union FNV spokesman Bert Duim said.    Around 140 grain handlers stopped work, 125 of them at thetwo Europoort locations of Graan Elevator Mij (GEM), whichhandles about 95 pct of grain, oilseeds and derivatives passingthrough Rotterdam.    GEM managing director Pieter van der Vorm said thefacilities were 40 pct operational.    The employers had invited the unions for talks later today,but details of the labour agreement would not be on the agenda,Van der Vorm said.    It is barely one month since the end of an eight-weekcampaign of lightning strikes against redundancies inRotterdam's general cargo sector, which stevedoring companiessaid cost them millions of guilders. REUTER
FAO APPROVES EMERGENCY FOOD AID FOR ETHIOPIA The United Nations Food and AgricultureOrganization, FAO, said it approved emergency food aid worthmore than 14.3 mln dlrs for drought victims in Ethiopia.    The aid will include 30,000 tonnes of wheat and 1,200tonnes of vegetable oil for farmers in the Wollo and Illubaborregions.    FAO said it has also approved more than 1.4 mln dlrs offood aid for 8,000 families in Sri Lanka. In addition, 583,225dlrs of aid will be made available to Malawi to feed 96,700people displaced from Mozambique and a further 340,200 dlrs forcyclone victims in Vanuatu in the South Pacific. Reuter
U.S. OIL/LARD STATISTICS U.S. Census Bureau figures releasedhere showed factory and warehouse stocks on Feb 28 included thefollowing, with comparisons, in mln lbs --          02/28/87    01/31/87  02/28/86 Soybean Oils --   Crude  1,663.3-x  1,542.6      893.7 Refined    300.5-x    294.7-r    287.4   Total  1,963.8-x  1,837.3-r  1,181.1Cotton Oils --   Crude     65.7       55.8-r     64.5 Refined    122.3      109.6-r    119.6   Total    188.0      165.4-r    184.1 X-Revised from preliminary data released in the bureau'soilseeds report of March 23. R-Revised.     Factory and Warehouse Stocks, continued -         02/28/87  01/31/87   02/28/86 Corn Oils --     Crude   32.5    32.3-r   44.2   Refined   65.8    54.4-r   39.9     Total   98.3    86.7-r   84.1      Lard   31.4    31.5-r   36.4  R-Revised. reuter
U.S. VEGETABLE OIL PRODUCTS OUTPUT IN FEBRUARY U.S. factories used 1,053.0 mln lbsof various vegetable oils in the production of edible productsduring February, the Census Bureau reported.    That compared with a revised usage of 1,075.0 mln lbs inJanuary and 1,084.2 mln lbs in February, 1986.    February production of selected products included thefollowing, with comparisons, in mln lbs --                 Feb 87    Jan 87    Feb 86     Baking or   Frying Fats -- 355.5    387.6-r   427.4 Soybean Salad and   Cooking Oil -- 388.1    373.3-r   351.7 R-Revised.    Production, continued (in mln lbs --)                   Feb 87    Jan 87   Feb 86 Other Salad and    Cooking Oils   111.2    111.4-r   114.3       Margarine   218.8    216.9-r   214.4       Glycerine --           Crude    21.5     25.9      31.3         Refined    23.5     23.6-r    25.4     Fatty Acids   102.9    112.5-r   113.1       Meat/Meal         Tankage   410.2    458.2-r   446.2 R-Revised.REUTER^M
ARGENTINE VEGETABLE OIL SHIPMENTS IN 1986 Argentine vegetable oils shipmentsduring January/December 1986 totalled 1,796,121 tonnes, against1,577,722 tonnes in the same period of 1985, the ArgentineGrain Board said.    Breakdown was as follows: cotton 9,000 (27,900), sunflower954,303 (840,440), linseed 119,954 (138,944), groundnutseed26,248 (26,246), soybean 669,094 (524,715), tung 9,047(11,363), olive 2,417 (4,125), maize 6,058 (3,989), rape nil(nil) , grape nil (nil), the board added.    Shipments during December 1986 amounted to 102,870 tonnes,against 108,514 tonnes in the same month of 1985.    The breakdown, was as follows, in tonnes:    Cotton 5,000 (nil), sunflower 25,156 (23,713), linseed6,127 (5,990), groundnutseed nil (738), soybean 65,759(76,371), tung 645 (730), olive 183 (660), maize nil (312),rape nil (nil), grape nil (nil), the board said.        The ten principal destinations during January/December1986, with comparative figures for the same period of 1985 inbrackets, were as follows, in tonnes:    Iran 212,043 (209,177), Holland 204,558 (215,784), SovietUnion 173,060 (266,389), Egypt 163,119 (164,252), Algeria116,330 (11,492), South Africa 105,230 (110,064), Brazil101,599 (103,142), Cuba 89,957 (98,740), United States 80,109(44,826), India 67,182 (17,403), the board said. REUTER
CARGILL U.K. STRIKE TALKS BREAK OFF WITHOUT RESULT Two days of talks between management andunions to try to end the 3-1/2 month labour dispute at CargillU.K. Ltd's oilseed crushing plant at Seaforth ended yesterdaywithout resolving the situation, a company spokesman said.    Fresh talks are expected to be held early next week but theactual date has not yet been fixed, he added.    Oilseed processing at the mill has been at a standstillsince December 19 and the company has declared force majeurefor deliveries of soymeal and soyoil ahead to May. REUTER
PAKISTAN TO TENDER FOR RBD PALM OLEIN TOMORROW Pakistan will tender tomorrow for 12,000tonnes of refined bleached deodorised palm olein tomorrow,split in two equal cargo lots for first and second half Aprilshipments, traders said.    The tender will be financed with Islamic Development Bankcredit. Reuter
PORLA CRUDE PALM OIL TRADE REPORT FOR APRIL 2 The Palm Oil Registration andLicensing Authority (PORLA) reports trade in crude palm oil(cpo) on April 2 as follows in ringgit per tonne deliveredunless stated.    April 752.50 south and central 751 north average 752.50down 6.50. May 750 south down 11.    Refined palm oil traded in bulk US dlrs per tonne fob. RBDpalm oil May 320. RBD palm olein April 336 May 337.50 June 337.RBD palm stearin May 275.    The cpo market was lower in light trading, with Apriltraded between 747.50 and 755 ringgit per tonne.    The refined palm oil market was slightly easier and Aprildelivery of RBD palm olein to Singapore traded at 856.50ringgit per tonne. REUTER
INDIA BUYS VEGETABLE OILS, PAKISTAN TO RETENDER The Indian State Trading Corporation(STC) bought 20,000 tonnes of optional origin soybean oil and6,000 tonnes of rbd palm olein at its import tender yesterday,traders said.    Pakistan, however, rejected offers at its tender for 12,000tonnes of rbd palm oil, but is expected to reenter the marketnext week, they said.    The STC soyoil purchase was for May 20/Jun 20 shipment at319 dlrs per tonne cif and the palm olein for Apr 25/May 25shipment at 355 dlrs per tonne. REUTER
U.S. SCIENTISTS SAY TROPICAL OILS HEALTH RISK U.S. scientists said some tropicalvegetable oils can be hazardous to consumers whose health is atrisk because of high levels of saturated fat, lending weight toa campaign by the American Soybean Association (ASA) forlabelling changes.    The scientists appeared to support an ASA charge, denied byMalaysian palm growers, that imported coconut, palm and palmkernel oils contain high levels of saturated fat and thus raiseblood cholesterol and the risk of heart disease.    In a petition filed in January, the ASA asked the U.S. Foodand Drug Administration (FDA) to require palm, palm kernel andcoconut oils to be identified as saturated fats on foodmanufacturers' labels.    The FDA responded to the ASA in a letter saying it wouldconsider the petition as a comment to a proposed rule dealingwith cholesterol and fatty acid labelling of foods.    Malaysian oil palm growers have said the charges by the ASAthat palm oil consumption increases blood cholesterol andcontributes to heart disease are untrue.    But Steve Chang, Professor of Food Science at RutgersUniversity, said, "Palm oil is definitely not good for humanhealth because it has a high content of saturated fatty acid."    He added that the higher the fatty acid, the greater theblood cholesterol level. "It has been well established thathigh cholesterol levels will have a higher level of heartdisease," he said.    A Malaysian Oil Palm Growers Council official, BorgeBek-Nielsen, has said studies have shown that palm oil ischolesterol-free, low in saturated fats, has anti-cancerproperties and prevents blood clotting and blocking of arteriesin humans.    Bek-Nielsen said Americans consume more saturated fatsdaily through food like butter, bacon, ham and beef than frompalm oil, which, he added is rich in vitamins A and E.    David Kritchevsky, Associate Director of the WistarInstitute in Philadelphia, appeared to take the ASA view onlabelling. "What people really have to learn is to read labels,"said Kritchevsky. "The more a consumer knows, the more likely hewill make an intelligent choice."    The U.S. scientists said they had no doubt imported palm,palm kernel and coconut oils contain high saturated fat levels.    Kritchevsky, a specialist in nutrition, said, "Moresaturated fat would raise cholesterol levels...So, from thatpoint of view it's a health risk. High cholesterol levels inthe blood are a risk factor for heart disease."    Susanne Harris, deputy assistant secretary of the U.S.Agriculture Department's Food and Consumer Services Division,said the health risk among consumers of vegetable oils withhigh saturated fat levels was highest among those who haveheart disease.    The scientists said more than 50 pct of the fatty acidcontent of the tropical oils was saturated, whereas less than20 pct of the fatty acid content of soybean oil was saturated.    David Ericksen, director of ASA's technical services, saidU.S. soybean producers could regain about one-half of the 273mln dlrs in sales lost to imported tropical oils if consumerswere aware the vegetable oils were high in saturated fat.    Imported tropical oils displace 171 mln bushels of U.S.soybean sales in the U.S. market, ASA estimates.    U.S. imports of coconut oil during January totaled 82.9 mlnlbs compared with 48.0 mln lbs in December and 106.5 mln a yearearlier, according to Commerce Department figures.    Imports of palm oil totaled 44.0 mln lbs compared with 51.3mln lbs in December and 85.2 mln a year earlier. Reuter
INDONESIA SEES CPO PRICE RISING SHARPLY Indonesia expects crude palm oil (CPO)prices to rise sharply to between 450 and 550 dlrs a tonne FOBsometime this year because of better European demand and a fallin Malaysian output, Hasrul Harahap, junior minister for treecrops, told Indonesian reporters.    Prices of Malaysian and Sumatran CPO are now around 332dlrs a tonne CIF for delivery in Rotterdam, traders said.    Harahap said Indonesia would maintain its exports, despitemaking recent palm oil purchases from Malaysia, so that itcould possibly increase its international market share.    Indonesia, the world's second largest producer of palm oilafter Malaysia, has been forced to import palm oil to ensuresupplies during the Moslem fasting month of Ramadan.    Harahap said it was better to import to cover a temporaryshortage than to lose export markets.    Indonesian exports of CPO in calendar 1986 were 530,500tonnes, against 468,500 in 1985, according to central bankfigures. REUTER
INDONESIAN COMMODITY EXCHANGE MAY EXPAND The Indonesian Commodity Exchange islikely to start trading in at least one new commodity, andpossibly two, during calendar 1987, exchange chairman PaianNainggolan said.    He told Reuters in a telephone interview that trading inpalm oil, sawn timber, pepper or tobacco was being considered.    Trading in either crude palm oil (CPO) or refined palm oilmay also be introduced. But he said the question was stillbeing considered by Trade Minister Rachmat Saleh and nodecision on when to go ahead had been made.    The fledgling exchange currently trades coffee and rubberphysicals on an open outcry system four days a week.    "Several factors make us move cautiously," Nainggolan said."We want to move slowly and safely so that we do not make amistake and undermine confidence in the exchange."    Physical rubber trading was launched in 1985, with coffeeadded in January 1986. Rubber contracts are traded FOB, up tofive months forward. Robusta coffee grades four and five aretraded for prompt delivery and up to five months forward,exchange officials said.    The trade ministry and exchange board are considering theintroduction of futures trading later for rubber, but oneofficial said a feasibility study was needed first. Nodecisions are likely until after Indonesia's elections on April23, traders said.    Trade Minister Saleh said on Monday that Indonesia, as theworld's second largest producer of natural rubber, shouldexpand its rubber marketing effort and he hoped development ofthe exchange would help this.    Nainggolan said that the exchange was trying to boostoverseas interest by building up contacts with end-users.    He said teams had already been to South Korea and Taiwan toencourage direct use of the exchange, while a delegation wouldalso visit Europe, Mexico and some Latin American states toencourage participation.    Officials say the infant exchange has made a good startalthough trading in coffee has been disappointing.    Transactions in rubber between the start of trading inApril 1985 and December 1986 totalled 9,595 tonnes, worth 6.9mln dlrs FOB, plus 184.3 mln rupiah for rubber deliveredlocally, the latest exchange report said.     Trading in coffee in calendar 1986 amounted to only 1,905tonnes in 381 lots, valued at 6.87 billion rupiah.     Total membership of the exchange is now nine brokers and44 traders. REUTER
MALAYSIA MAY NOT MEET 1987 OIL PALM TARGET Malaysia is unlikely to meet itstargeted output of five mln tonnes of oil palm in calendar1987, oil palm growers told Reuters.    Output in 1987 is expected to reach around 4.5 mln tonnes,unchanged from 1986, because of drought, low use of fertiliserand overstressed palms, they said.    The growers were asked for their reaction to an Oil Worldnewsletter report that Malaysia's oil palm output is likely todrop sharply this year.    Palm oil now sells at around 700 ringgit a tonne, or about115 ringgit less than soybean oil, but Malaysia must sell morepalm oil to prevent a stock buildup that could damage theindustry, a leading grower told Reuters.    The country's palm oil stocks now total some 500,000 tonnesagainst about 800,000 last March, the growers said.    The growers expect palm oil prices to ease later this yeardue to pressure from South American and U.S. Soybean output.    The current South American oilseed harvest, mainly soybean,is likely to be around 25.7 mln tonnes against the previous21.7 mln tonne crop, they said.    In addition, new U.S. Soybean plantings are also expectedto enter the market around November when Malaysian palm oiloutput peaks.    They said new planting of palms is also likely to slow,with some 50,000 hectares expected to be planted with new treesagainst 100,000 in 1986, although the effects of this reductionwill not be felt for about another three years. REUTER
USDA DISCUSSING PL 480 AGREEMENT WITH MOROCCO The U.S. Agriculture Department iscurrently discussing an amendment to a PL 480 agreement signedwith Morocco on January 22, but the mix of commodities underthe amendment has not been determined, a U.S. AgricultureDepartment official said.    The official noted the agreement signed in January providedfor the supply of about 55,000 tonnes of vegetable oil, 55,000tonnes of corn and 126,000 tonnes of wheat, all for deliveryduring the current fiscal year, ending this September 30.    No purchase authorizations for the commodities provided inthe January agreement have been announced by the department. Reuter
RPT - ARGENTINE GRAIN/OILSEED EXPORT PRICES ADJUSTED The Argentine Grain Board adjustedminimum export prices of grain and oilseed products in dlrs pertonne FOB, previous in brackets, as follows:    Sorghum 64 (63), sunflowerseed cake and expellers 103 (102), pellets 101 (100), meal 99 (98), linseed oil 274 (264),groundnutseed oil 450 (445), soybean oil 300 (290), rapeseedoil 290 (280).    Sunflowerseed oil for shipment through May 323 (313) andjune onwards 330 (320).    The board also adjusted export prices at which export taxesare levied in dlrs per tonne FOB, previous in brackets, asfollows:    Bran pollard wheat 40 (42), pellets 42 (44). REUTER
MOROCCO TENDERS FOR 55,000 TONNES PL 480 SOYOIL Morocco is scheduled to tender April 14for a total of 55,000 tonnes of U.S. soyoil under PL-480 forshipments from May through September, private export sourcessaid.    The tender calls for shipment of 6,100 tonnes in May,12,200 tonnes each in June, July and August and 12,300 tonnesin September, they said. Reuter
NET CHANGE IN EXPORT COMMITMENTS -- USDA The U.S. Agriculture Department gavethe net change in export commitments, including sales,cancellations, foreign purchases and cumulative exports, in thecurrent seasons through the week ended April 2, withcomparisons, as follows, in tonnes, except as noted --                        4/2/87   Prev Week            All Wheat   119,800    368,300                 Corn 1,001,900    927,000             Soybeans   240,500    300,900         Soy Cake/Meal  117,700    170,200          Soybean Oil     2,400-x    8,100            Cotton-Y     60,200     31,900   x-minus total. Y-running bales.    The indicated totals include reported commitments to bothnamed and unnamed destinations, sales on exporters' own accountand optional origin sales plus actual exports already madeduring the respective marketing seasons.    The USDA cautions that reported outstanding sales aresubject to modification, deferral or cancellation and it isunlikely that all reported quantities will be exported.    USDA gave detailed breakdowns for the 1986/87 and 1987/88seasons as follows, in thousand tonnes unless stated -- (A) - Firm sales to a declared destination. (B) - Ultimate destination not yet declared. (C) - Sales made on exporters' own account. (D) - Exporter holds option to fill commitment with supplies from origins other than U.S. (E) - Accumulated exports since season began based on data reported by exporters. (F) - Indicated total for season. (G) - USDA-projected exports for season. Note -- Totals may not add due to rounding.     ALL WHEAT                1986/87             1987/88             4/2/87   Prev Wk  4/3/87 Prev Wk Named-A    3,157.6   3,684.1 1,591.4 1,635.6 Unnamed-B    143.8     144.3    87.1    57.1 E.O.A.-C       9.5       9.5     nil     nil O.O.P.-D       nil       nil     nil     nil Gr Total   3,310.9   3,837.9 1,679.0 1,692.7 Ay Expd-E 21,044.6  20,433.4 Ind Ttl-F 24,355.5  24,271.3 USDAPRJ-G 27,900.0  27,900.0    SOYBEANS                 1986/87            1987/88             4/2/87   Prev Wk   4/2/87  Prev Wk Named-A    1,774.7  1,780.3     215.9   215.9 Unnamed-B    500.3    524.8       nil    30.0 E.O.A.-C      18.4     18.4       nil     nil O.O.P.-D       nil      nil       nil     nil Gr Total   2,293.4  2,323.5     215.9   245.9 Ay Expd-E 14,334.2 14,183.2 Ind Ttl-F 16,627.6 16,506.7 USDAPRJ-G 19,050.0 19,050.0    CORN                1986/87             1987/88            4/2/87    Prev Wk    4/2/87 Prev WK Named-A    8,559.8   8,684.8    772.1   268.8 Unnamed-B    945.7     920.1      nil     nil E.O.A-C       90.8      66.9      nil     nil O.O.P-D      138.0     175.0      nil     nil Gr Total   9,734.3   9,846.9    772.1   268.8 Ay Expd-E 20,296.0  19,293.8 Ind Ttl-F 30,030.3  29,140.7 USDAPRJ-G 31,750.0  31,750.0    SORGHUM                1986/87            1987/88             4/2/87  Prev Wk    4/2/87 Prev WK Named-A      875.6    805.1     nil      nil Unnamed-B    151.2    151.2     10.2-x   nil E.O.A-C        nil      nil     nil      nil O.O.P-D      114.5    138.3     nil      nil Gr Total   1,141.3  1,094.6     10.2-x   nil Ay Expd-E  3,222.5  3,149.7 Ind Ttl-F  4,363.8  4,244.3 USDAPRJ-G  5,720.0  5,720.0 x-minus total     WHEAT PRODUCTS               1986/87            1987/88            4/2/87  Prev Wk   4/2/87   Prev Wk Named-A     321.0   401.9       nil    nil Unnamed-B     nil     nil       nil    nil E.O.A.-C      nil     nil       nil    nil O.O.P.-D      nil     nil       nil    nil Gr Total    321.0   401.9       nil    nil Ay Expd-E   926.9   840.9 Ind Ttl-F 1,348.2 1,242.8  Note - Includes bulgur, semolina, farina, rolled, cracked andcrushed wheat.    SOYBEAN OIL               1986/87           1987/88           4/2/87  Prev Wk    4/2/87  Prev Wk Named-A      8.8    10.4      nil     nil Unnamed-B    7.0    10.5      nil     nil E.O.A-C      nil     nil      nil     nil O.O.P-D      nil     nil      nil     nil Gr Total    15.8    20.9      nil     nil Ay Expd-E  138.4   135.8 Ind Ttl-F  154.2   156.7 USDAPRJ-G  610.0   610.0    SOYBEAN CAKE AND MEAL                1986/87             1987/88             4/2/87  Prev Wk    4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A      788.0    869.7    50.7      48.4 Unnamed-B     76.0     94.0     nil       nil E.O.A-C        2.7      6.1     nil       nil O.O.P-D        nil      nil     nil       nil Gr Total     866.7    969.8    50.7      48.4 Ay Expd-E  4,098.0  3,880.6 Ind Ttl-F  4,964.7  4,850.4 USDAPRJ-G  5,760.0  5,760.0     COTTONSEED OIL               1986/87            1987/88            4/2/87  Prev Wk   4/2/87   Prev Wk Named-A      7.4     7.2       nil     nil Unnamed-B    0.3     0.3       nil     nil E.O.A.-C     nil     nil       nil     nil O.O.P.-D     7.8     7.8       nil     nil Gr Total    15.4    15.2       nil     nil    ALL UPLAND DOMESTIC RAW COTTON-Y                1986/87            1987/88            4/2/87    Prev Wk   4/2/87  Prev Wk Named-A    2,007.9  2,076.1     468.2   457.2 Unnamed-B     20.3     20.2       nil     nil E.O.A-C        nil      nil       nil     nil O.O.P-C        nil      nil       nil     nil Gr Total   2,028.2  2,096.3     468.2   457.2 Ay Expd-E  4,333.1  4,204.7 Ind Ttl-F  6,361.3  6,301.0 USDAPRJ-G  6,335.0  6,335.0  Y-In thousand running bales.    BARLEY                 1986/87            1987/88            4/2/87   Prev Wk     4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A      559.5    584.5      nil      nil Unnamed-B     12.7     12.7      nil      nil E.O.A.-C       nil      nil      nil      nil O.O.P.-D      25.0     25.0      nil      nil Gr Total     597.1    622.1      nil      nil Ay Expt-E  2,464.6  2,440.7 Ind Ttl-F  3,061.7  3,062.8 USDAPRJ-G  3,270.0  3,270.0    OATS             1986/87            1987/88           4/2/87 Prev Wk    4/2/87  Prev Wk Named-A     nil    nil       nil    nil Unnamed-B   nil    nil       nil    nil E.O.A.-C    nil    nil       nil    nil O.O.P.-D    nil    nil       nil    nil Gr Total    nil    nil       nil    nil Ay Expd-E   2.4    2.4 Ind Ttl-F   2.4    2.4 USDAPRJ-G  30.0   30.0    RICE                1986/87            1987/88            4/2/87   Prev Wk    4/2/87  Prev Wk Named-A      347.6    369.1      nil     nil Unnamed-B      1.0      1.0      nil     nil E.O.A-C        nil      nil      nil     nil O.O.P-D        nil      nil      nil     nil Gr Total     348.6    370.1      nil     nil Ay Expd-E  1,718.8  1,688.2 Ind Ttl-F  2,067.4  2,058.3 USDAPRJ-G  2,580.0  2,580.0    HARD RED WINTER WHEAT               1986/87            1987/88           4/2/87   Prev Wk     4/2/87  Prev Wk Named-A   1,738.0  2,019.7     893.0   943.0 Unnamed-B    80.5     70.5     107.6    77.2 E.O.A.-C      nil      nil       nil     nil O.O.P.-D      nil      nil       nil     nil Gr Total  1,818.5  2,090.2   1,000.6 1,020.2 Ay Exp-E  8,332.1  7,974.5 Ind Tl-F 10,150.6 10,064.8    WHITE WHEAT               1986/87            1987/88            4/2/87  Prev Wk    4/2/87   Prev Wk Named-A     548.5    635.6     58.0    58.0 Unnamed-B    19.0-x   19.0-x    6.0-x   6.0-x E.O.A.-C      nil      nil      nil     nil O.O.P.-D      nil      nil      nil     nil Gr Total    529.5    616.6     52.0    52.0 Ay Exp-E  3,831.5  3,757.7 Ind Tl-F  4,361.0  4,374.3  x - denotes minus figure    HARD RED SPRING WHEAT              1986/87             1987/88          4/2/87   Prev Wk    4/2/87   Prev Wk Named-A    576.6    620.6    164.7   164.7 Unnamed-B   29.6     16.0      nil     nil E.O.A.-C     0.9      0.9      nil     nil O.O.P.-D     nil      nil      nil     nil Gr Total   607.1    637.5    164.7   164.7 Ay Exp-E 4,312.4  4,247.6 Ind Tl-F 4,919.5  4,885.1     DURUM WHEAT              1986/87              1987/88           4/2/87   Prev Wk    4/2/87  Prev Wk Named-A    166.6    280.3      93.4   93.4 Unnamed-B   52.8     76.9       nil    nil E.O.A.-C     2.8      2.8       nil    nil O.O.P.-D     nil      nil       nil    nil Gr Total   222.2    360.0      93.4   93.4 Ay Exp-E 1,842.6  1,727.5 Ind Tl-F 2,064.8  2,087.5    SOFT RED WINTER WHEAT               1986/87             1987/88            4/2/87  Prev Wk     4/2/87  Prev Wk Named-A     127.8    127.8    382.3   376.5 Unnamed-B     nil      nil     14.0-x  14.0-x E.O.A.-C      5.8      5.8      nil     nil O.O.P.-D      nil      nil      nil     nil Gr Total    133.6    133.6    368.3   362.5 Ay Exp-E  2,726.0  2,726.0 Ind Tl-F  2,859.6  2,859.6 x-minus figure    Country and destinations of the identified sales ofcommodities reported by exporters in week ended April 2 forthe respective marketing seasons were detailed by the USDA asfollows, with comparisons for the previous week, in thousandsof tonnes, except where noted--  ALL WHEAT                 1986/87             1987/88             4/2/87  Prev Wk   4/2/87   Prev Wk E.C.          nil     nil      50.0    50.0 Other West Europe      218.8   236.8       nil     nil East Europe 261.0   346.0      25.0    25.0    ALL WHEAT Continued                 1986/87            1987/88             4/2/87  Prev Wk    4/2/87  Prev Wk USSR           nil      nil      nil     nil Japan        490.4    662.2      nil     nil China         90.0     90.0    910.0   910.0 Taiwan       115.0    141.0    144.0   144.0 Other Asia and Oceania      654.9    730.9     28.6    78.6 Africa       959.5  1,115.0    167.1   167.1 Western Hemisphere   367.9    362.1    266.7   260.9 SOYBEANS        1986/87            1987/88            4/2/87   Prev Wk   4/2/87   Prev Wk E.C.        302.2     317.7    91.4     91.4 Other West Europe       25.0      25.0     nil      nil East Europe 101.0     101.0     nil      nil Japan       355.4     330.5     nil      nil China         nil       nil     nil      nil Taiwan      472.0     499.0    87.0     87.0 Other Asia and Oceania     164.6     187.7     nil      nil Africa        nil       nil     nil      nil Western Hemisphere  354.4     391.5     37.5    37.5    SOYBEAN OIL             1986/87           1987/88          4/2/87  Prev Wk    4/2/87  Prev Wk E.C.        1.5     1.5      nil     nil India       nil     nil      nil     nil Other Asia and Oceania     nil     nil      nil     nil Africa      nil     nil      nil     nil Western Hemisphere  7.3     8.9      nil     nil    SOYBEAN CAKE/MEAL                 1986/87            1987/88            4/2/87   Prev Wk   4/2/87   Prev Wk E.C.        301.7   350.7     47.2   45.0 Other West Europe        nil     nil      nil    nil East Europe   nil    36.0      nil    nil Japan         nil     3.5      nil    nil Other Asia and Oceania      25.0    40.0      nil    nil Africa       30.2    38.0      nil    nil Western Hemisphere  431.0   401.5      3.4    3.4    CORN         1986/87            1987/88              4/2/87   Prev Wk   4/2/87  Prev Wk E.C.           82.5     22.5       0.2     0.2 Other West Europe          nil      0.8       nil     nil E. Europe      94.0     50.0      50.0    50.0 USSR        2,432.7  2,543.8       nil     nil Japan       2,767.4  2,787.8      52.4    21.0 China         495.0    555.0       nil     nil Taiwan        791.0    836.0     390.0   170.0 Other Asia and Oceania       721.7    615.2     250.0     nil Africa        125.0    195.5       nil     nil WestHem     1,050.5  1,114.0      29.4    27.6    UPLAND COTTON (In thousand bales)               1986/87             1987/88            4/2/87  Prev Wk     4/2/87 Prev Wk E.C.        260.9    266.1     97.9    95.0 Other West Europe       62.2     66.2      8.7     8.7 E. Europe     3.1      3.1      nil     nil Japan       445.8    484.1     72.3    70.1 Taiwan      377.9    390.4     41.6    39.5 Other Asia and Oceania     741.7    783.4    244.5   241.1 Africa       16.7     13.4      nil     nil Western Hemisphere   99.6     69.5      3.2     2.7 Reuter
U.S. SUPPLY/DEMAND DETAILED BY USDA The U.S. Agriculture Department madethe following supply/demand projections for the 1986/87seasons, in mln bushels, with comparisons, unless noted --    CORN --     1986/87            1985/86           04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Acreage (mln acres) --     Planted   76.7    76.7     83.4    83.4   Harvested   69.2    69.2     75.2    75.2  Yield (bu)  119.3   119.3    118.0   118.0 Supply (mln bu) --  Start Stock  4,040   4,040    1,648   1,648  Production  8,253   8,253    8,877   8,877     Total-X 12,295  12,295   10,536  10,536  X-Includes imports.    CORN (cont.)                 1986/87           1985/86           04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage: Feed  4,500    4,300     4,095    4,126       Other  1,180    1,150     1,160    1,129  Ttl Domest  5,680    5,450     5,255    5,255     Exports  1,375    1,250     1,241    1,241   Total Use  7,055    6,700     6,496    6,496  End Stocks  5,240    5,595     4,040    4,040 Farmer Reser 1,400    1,300       564      564  CCC Stocks  1,700    1,500       546      546 Free Stocks  2,140    2,795     2,930    2,930  AvgPrice  1.35-1.65  1.35-1.65  2.23     2.23  Note - Price in dlrs per bu. Corn season begins Sept 1.    ALL WHEAT -                1986/87            1985/86           04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Acreage (mln acres) --     Planted   72.0    72.0     75.6    75.6   Harvested   60.7    60.7     64.7    64.7       Yield   34.4    34.4     37.5    37.5 Supply (mln bu) -- Start Stcks  1,905   1,905    1,425   1,425  Production  2,087   2,087    2,425   2,425       Total    Supply-X  4,007   4,007    3,865   3,865 X - Includes imports.    ALL WHEAT   1986/87            1985/86 (cont.)   04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage: Food    700    690       678    678        Seed     84     90        93     93        Feed    350    325       274    274  Ttl Domest  1,134  1,105     1,045  1,045     Exports  1,025  1,025       915    915   Total Use  2,159  2,130     1,960  1,960  End Stocks  1,848  1,877     1,905  1,905 Farmer Reser   475    450       433    433  CCC Stocks    950    950       602    602 Free Stocks    423    477       870    870  Avg Price  2.30-40  2.30-40   3.08   3.08 Note - Price in dlrs per bushel. Wheat season begins June 1.    SOYBEANS -                1986/87            1985/86           04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Acreage (mln acres) --      Planted   61.5   61.5     63.1   61.1    Harvested   59.4   59.4     61.6   61.6   Yield (bu)   33.8   33.8     34.1   34.1 Supply (mln bu) -- Start Stocks    536    536      316    316   Production  2,007  2,007    2,099  2,099        Total  2,543  2,543    2,415  2,415    SOYBEANS (cont.)               1986/87             1985/86          04/09/87 03/09/87   04/09/87 03/09/87      Usage --  Crushings  1,130   1,115      1,053   1,053    Exports    700     700        740     740 Seed, Feed and   Residual    103      93         86      86  Total Use  1,933   1,908      1,879   1,879 End Stocks    610     635        536     536 Avg Price 4.60-4.80 4.60-4.80   5.05    5.05 Note - Average price in dlrs per bushel. Soybean season beginsJune 1.    FEEDGRAINS - X                1986/87            1985/86           04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Acreage (mln acres) --      Planted  119.8   119.8     128.1   128.1    Harvested  102.0   102.0     111.8   111.8 Yld (tonnes)   2.48    2.48      2.45    2.45 Supply (mln tonnes) -- Start Stocks  126.4   126.4      57.5    57.5   Production  252.4   252.4     274.4   274.4      Imports    0.6     0.6       0.9     0.9        Total  379.4   379.4     332.7   332.7 X - Includes corn, sorghum, barley, oats.    FEEDGRAINS - X (cont.)                 1986/87          1985/86           04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage: Feed  140.6   136.2     134.8   135.5       Other   35.8    35.0      35.0    34.3  Ttl Domest  176.4   171.2     169.8   169.8     Exports   43.9    40.8      36.6    36.6   Total Use  220.3   211.9     206.4   206.4  End Stocks  159.1   167.5     126.4   126.4 Farmer Reser  39.0    36.5      16.6    16.6  CCC Stocks   55.2    49.5      20.4    20.4 Free Stocks   64.8    81.5      89.3    89.3 X - Includes corn, sorghum, oats, barley. Seasons for oats,barley began June 1, corn and sorghum Sept 1.    SOYBEAN OIL -                1986/87            1985/86           04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Supply (mln lbs) -- Start Stcks     947     947       632     632  Production  12,263  12,103    11,617  11,617     Imports     Nil     Nil         8       8       Total  13,210  13,050    12,257  12,257 Note - 1985/86 production estimates based on October yearcrush of 1,060 mln bushels.    SOYBEAN OIL (cont.) -               1986/87             1985/86          04/09/87  03/09/87  04/09/87  03/09/87 Usage (mln lbs) --  Domestic  10,500    10,500    10,053   10,053   Exports   1,350     1,350     1,257    1,257     Total  11,850    11,850    11,310   11,310 End Stcks   1,360     1,200       947      947 AvgPrice  14.5-16.0  15.0-17.0  18.00    18.00 Note - Average price in cents per lb. Season for soybean oilbegins Oct 1.    SOYBEAN CAKE/MEAL, in thousand short tons --                1986/87            1985/86           04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks     212     212       387     387  Production  26,558  26,203    24,951  24,951       Total  26,770  26,415    25,338  25,338 Note - 1985/86 production estimates based on October yearcrush of 1,060 mln bushels.    SOY CAKE/MEAL (cont.) -               1986/87            1985/86          04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage (thous short tons) --  Domestic   20,000  19,750    19,090  19,118   Exports    6,500   6,350     6,036   6,008     Total   26,500  26,100    25,126  25,126 End Stcks      270     315       212     212  AvgPrice  145-150  145-150   154.90  154.90  Note - Price in dlrs per short ton. Season for soybean cakeand meal begins Oct 1.    COTTON --                1986/87            1985/86           04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Area (mln acres) --      Planted  10.06   10.06     10.68   10.68    Harvested   8.49    8.49     10.23   10.23  Yield (lbs)    549     553       630     630 Supply (mln 480-lb bales) -- Start Stks-X   9.35    9.35      4.10    4.10   Production   9.70    9.79     13.43   13.43 Ttl Supply-Y  19.06   19.14     17.57   17.57  X - Based on Census Bureau data. Y - Includes imports.    COTTON (cont.) -               1986/87           1985/86          04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87   Usage --   Domestic   7.10    7.01     6.40    6.40    Exports   6.66    6.76     1.96    1.96      Total  13.76   13.77     8.36    8.36 End Stocks   5.40    5.49     9.35    9.35 Avge Price  51.7-X  51.7-X   56.50   56.50 X - 1986/87 price is weighted average for first five months ofmarketing year, not a projection for 1986/87. Average price incents per lb. Cotton season begins August 1.    RICE               1986/87            1985/86          04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Acreage (mln acres) --     Planted   2.40    2.40      2.51    2.51   Harvested   2.38    2.38      2.49    2.49 Yield (lbs)  5,648   5,648     5,414   5,414 Supply (mln cwts) -- Start Stcks   77.3    77.3      64.7    64.7  Production  134.4   134.4     134.9   134.9     Imports    2.2     2.2       2.2     2.2       Total  213.9   213.9     201.8   201.8    RICE (cont.)                1986/87            1985/86           04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage (mln cwts) --    Domestic   67.0    67.0      65.8    65.8     Exports   80.0    80.0      58.7    58.7     Total-Y  147.0   147.0     124.5   124.5  End Stocks   66.9    66.9      77.3    77.3  CCC Stocks   42.9    42.9      41.5    41.5 Free Stocks   24.0    24.0      35.8    35.8   AvgPrice 3.45-4.25 3.45-4.25  6.53    6.53 Note - Average price in dlrs per CWT. Y-Rough equivalent.N.A.-Not Available, USDA revising price definition due tomarketing loan. Rice season begins August 1.    SORGHUM               1986/87            1985/86          04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87  Yield (bu)  67.7    67.7     66.8    66.8 Supply (mln bu) -- Start Stcks   551     551      300     300  Production   942     942    1,120   1,120       Total 1,493   1,493    1,420   1,420  Usage (mln bu) --        Feed   550     575      662     662       Other    30      30       29      29  Ttl Domest   580     605      691     691    SORGHUM (cont.) -                1986/87            1985/86           04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87    Exports     225     225       178     178  Total Use     805     830       869     869 End Stocks     688     663       551     551 Avge Price  1.30-50  1.30-50    1.93    1.93 Note - Price in dlrs per bushel. Sorghum season begins Sept 1.    BARLEY                1986/87            1985/86           04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87   Yield (bu)  50.8    50.8      51.0    51.0 Start Stocks   325     325       247     247   Production   610     610       591     591      Imports     5       5         9       9        Total   941     941       847     847    BARLEY (cont.)             1986/87            1985/86        04/09/87 03/15/87  04/09/87 03/15/87 Usage (mln bu) --       Feed  300    300       333    333      Other  175    175       167    167 Ttl Domest  475    475       500    500    Exports  150    150        22     22  Total Use  625    625       522    522 End Stocks  316    316       325    325  AvgPrice 1.45-65  1.45-65  1.98   1.98 Note - Average price in dlrs per bushel. Barley season beginsJune 1.    OATS - in mln bushels               1986/87            1985/86          04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87  Yield (bu)  56.0   56.0      63.7   63.7 Start Stcks   184    184       180    180  Production   385    385       521    521     Imports    30     30        28     28       Total   598    598       729    729    OATS, in mln bushels (cont.)              1986/87             1985/86         04/09/87 03/09/87   04/09/87 03/09/87     Usage --      Feed   400     400       460     460     Other    85      85        83      83 Ttl Domes   485     485       543     543   Exports     2       2         2       2     Total   487     487       545     545 End Stcks   111     111       184     184 AvgPrice 1.00-20  1.00-20    1.23    1.23  Note - Average price in dlrs per bushel. Oats season beginsJune 1.    LONG GRAIN RICE, in mln CWTs (100 lbs) --                1986/87            1985/86           04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87   Harvested -- Acres (mln)   1.83    1.83     1.94    1.94 Yield (lbs)  5,358   5,358    5,168   5,168  Start Stks   49.3    49.3     37.7    37.7  Production   97.8    97.8    100.4   100.4  Ttl Supply  148.6   148.6    140.1   140.1 Note -- Starting Stocks does not include broken kernels --Supply minus use does not equal ending stocks in breakdowns.Total Supply includes imports but not broken kernels.    LONG GRAIN RICE, in mln CWTs (100 lbs), cont. --                 1986/87           1985/86            04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Domestic Use   43.0    43.0      48.8    48.8      Exports   65.0    60.0      42.0    42.0    Total Use  108.0   103.0      90.8    90.8 End Stocks-X   40.6    45.6      49.3    49.3    AvgPric 3.45-4.25 3.45-4.24   6.86    6.86 Note - Average price in dlrs per cwt. X-Broken kernels notincluded -- supply minus use does not equal ending stocks inbreakdowns. Rice season begins August 1.    MEDIUM, SHORT GRAIN RICE - in mln CWTs (100 lbs) --                1986/87            1985/86           04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87   Harvested -- Acres (mln)   0.55    0.55     0.55    0.55 Yield (lbs)  6,651   6,651    6,258   6,258  Start Stks   26.7    26.7     25.7    25.7  Production   36.6    36.6     34.5    34.5  Ttl Supply   65.3    65.3     61.7    61.7 Note -- Starting Stocks does not include broken kernels --Supply minus use does not equal ending stocks in breakdowns.Total Supply includes imports but not broken kernels.    MEDIUM, SHORT GRAIN RICE, in mln CWTs (100 lbs), cont. --                 1986/87          1985/86            04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Domestic Use   24.0    24.0      17.0    17.0      Exports   15.0    20.0      16.7    16.7    Total Use   39.0    44.0      33.7    33.7 End Stocks-X   24.5    19.5      26.7    26.7    AvgPric 3.45-4.25  3.45-4.25  5.91    5.91 Note - Average price in dlrs per CWT. X-Broken kernels notincluded - supply minus use does not equal ending stocks inbreakdowns. Rice season begins August 1.    NOTES ON U.S. SUPPLY/DEMAND TABLES    -- N.A. - Not available.    -- Totals may not add due to rounding.    -- Figures for 1986/87 are midpoint of USDA range.    -- Feed usage for corn, wheat, soybean, feedgrains,sorghum, barley, oats includes residual amount.    -- Residual amount included in rice and medium/short grainrice domestic usage.    -- Rice, long grain, and medium/short grain rice averageprice for 1985/86 estimates and 1986/87 projections are marketprices and exclude cash retained under the marketing loan sinceApril, 1986. Reuter
SEASONAL EXPORTS REPORTED BY U.S. EXPORTERS Exports of the following commoditiesbetween start of current seasons and April 2, with comparisons,as reported to USDA by exporters, in thousand tonnes, unlessnoted --               4/2/87    Prev Wk   4/3/86 Wheat        21,044.6  20,398.3  19,725.8 Soybeans     14,334.2  14,063.5  14,698.4 Corn         20,296.0  19,194.6  25,182.6-x Sorghum       3,222.5   3,149.7   3,168.9-x Soybean Oil     138.4     135.8     179.9 Soybean Meal  4,098.0   3,880.6   3,141.3 Cotton        4,333.1   4,204.7   1,510.4 X-2,059,300 tonnes of corn and 763,800 tonnes of sorghum addedto reflect change in marketing year to Sept-Aug. Reuter
WORLD SUPPLY/DEMAND ESTIMATES ISSUED BY USDA The U.S. Agriculture Department madethe following 1986/87 projections in its world Supply/Demandreport, with comparisons, in mln tonnes, except where noted --    Total World Grain               1986/87            1985/86         04/09/87  03/09/87  04/09/87  03/09/87 Produc  1,682.31  1,686.11  1,663.69  1,663.70 Total Supply  2,025.71  2,028.45  1,919.18  1,920.13 Trade-X   212.15    211.89    204.42    203.92 Usage   1,635.01  1,630.40  1,575.78  1,577.79 End Stks  390.70    398.05    343.40    342.34 X-Based on export estimate.    All Wheat    1986/87           1985/86           04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stks  137.05   136.48   125.54   125.87 Production  529.20   528.40   498.97   498.81 Imports      97.57    98.27    94.56    94.36 Feed Use    101.79   100.82    90.19    90.56 Total Domes 517.26   514.89   487.45   488.20 Exports     101.08   101.20    95.92    95.76 End Stocks  148.99   149.99   137.05   136.48  Note - World imports/exports may not balance due to differingmarketing years, grains in transit and reporting discrepancies.    Coarse Grain                1986/87           1985/86           04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 181.64  181.10    107.80  108.40 Production  835.21  838.82    844.60  844.84 Imports      95.66   93.77     95.70   95.18 Feed Use    514.07  510.20    510.20  510.80 Total Domes 796.33  793.64    770.76  772.14 Exports      98.97   98.47     96.02   95.76 End Stocks  220.52  226.28    181.64  181.10  Note - World imports/exports may not balance due to differingmarketing years, grain in transit and reporting discrepancies.    Corn (Mln Tonnes)                1986/87           1985/86           04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 123.08  123.11     61.09   61.75 Production  477.26  480.29    481.86  481.92 Imports      61.03   58.59     62.12   62.08 Feed Use    295.49  289.47    286.53  287.42 Ttl Domes   444.78  439.80    419.88  420.55 Exports      62.80   62.10     62.53   62.15 End Stocks  155.56  163.61    123.08  123.11  Note - World imports/exports may not balance due to differingmarketing years, grain in transit and reporting discrepancies.    Soybeans                1986/87           1985/86           04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks  23.03   22.84    17.59   17.58 Production   99.98   99.43    96.74   96.53 Imports      26.21   26.27    27.08   27.08 Crushings    79.69   79.33    76.16   76.15 Ttl Domes    97.53   96.40    92.36   92.34 Exports      26.45   26.43    26.02   26.01 End Stocks   25.23   25.71    23.03   22.84  Note - Imports and exports do not balance due to differingmarketing years and time lags between reported exports andimports.    Soybean Meal                1986/87            1985/86           04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks  2.55    2.47     2.79    2.74 Production   62.71   62.40    60.09   60.09 Imports      23.47   23.49    23.48   23.47 Consumption  62.69   62.49    61.06   61.10 Exports      23.51   23.39    22.76   22.74 End Stocks    2.52    2.47     2.55    2.47  Note - Imports and exports may not balance due to differingmarketing years and time lags between reported exports andimports.    Soybean Oil                1986/87          1985/86           04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks  1.61   1.51       1.37   1.36 Production   14.20  14.13      13.65  13.66 Imports       3.31   3.29       3.08   3.05 Consumption  14.02  14.03      13.33  13.40 Exports       3.33   3.35       3.15   3.16 End Stocks    1.78   1.54       1.61   1.51   Note - Imports and exports do not balance due to differingmarketing years and time lags between reported exports andimports.    Cotton (Mln Bales)               1986/87          1985/86          04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 45.87   48.14    42.70   43.11 Production  69.53   69.66    78.94   78.92 Imports     23.07   23.07    21.49   21.45 Mill Use    80.72   77.08    76.84   74.79 Exports     23.37   23.50    20.25   20.28 End Stocks  34.16   39.99    45.87   48.14  Note - Imports and exports may not balance due to cotton intransit and reporting discrepancies in some countries.    Rice (Milled Basis)                1986/87          1985/86           04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks 24.71   24.75     22.16   22.16 Production  317.90  318.90    320.12  320.05 Imports      10.56   10.63     11.68   11.70 Dom. Use    321.41  321.87    317.58  317.46 Exports      12.11   12.22     12.49   12.39 End Stocks   21.19   21.78     24.71   24.75 Reuter
SOYBEAN OIL SUPPLY/DEMAND BY COUNTRY -- USDA The U.S. Agriculture Departmentdetailed world supply/demand data for major importers andexporters of soybean oil, by country, in mln tonnes --    ARGENTINA --               1986/87            1985/86          04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks  0.10   0.10      0.10   0.10 Production   0.77   0.77      0.73   0.73 Imports       NIL    NIL       NIL    NIL Domes Use    0.10   0.10      0.11   0.11 Exports      0.66   0.66      0.63   0.63 End Stocks   0.10   0.10      0.10   0.10    BRAZIL SOYBEAN OIL, in mln tonnes --               1986/87            1985/86          04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks  0.32   0.28      0.24   0.24 Production   2.52   2.51      2.35   2.35 Imports      0.15   0.15      0.12   0.12 Domes Use    2.00   2.00      1.94   1.98 Exports      0.65   0.65      0.45   0.45 End Stocks   0.34   0.28      0.32   0.28    EC-12 SOYBEAN OIL, in mln tonnes --               1986/87            1985/86          04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks  0.22   0.22      0.23   0.22 Production   2.32   2.33      2.26   2.26 Imports      0.44   0.44      0.50   0.50 Domes Use    1.46   1.45      1.38   1.38 Exports      1.29   1.30      1.39   1.39 End Stocks   0.23   0.23      0.22   0.22    INDIA SOYBEAN OIL --               1986/87            1985/86          04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks  0.12   0.07      0.21   0.21 Production   0.17   0.17      0.15   0.15 Imports      0.35   0.35      0.25   0.25 Domes Use    0.52   0.52      0.49   0.54 Exports       NIL    NIL       NIL    NIL End Stocks   0.12   0.07      0.12   0.07 Reuter
USDA COMMENTS ON EXPORT SALES REPORT  U.S. corn sales of just over 1.0 mlntonnes in the week ended April 2 were eight pct above the priorweek, but 25 pct below the four-week average, the U.S.Agriculture Department said.    In comments on its latest Export Sales Report, thedepartment said Iraq, Japan and the USSR were the largestbuyers.    Sales for the next marketing year, which begins September1, totaled 503,200 tonnes and were mainly to Iraq and Taiwan.    Wheat sales of 119,300 tonnes for the current season andnet reductions of 13,700 tonnes for the 1987/88 season werefour-fifths below the combined total for the prior week and thefour-week average, it said.    Sri Lanka was the most active wheat destination withpurchases of 52,500 tonnes for the current year, it said.    Other significant purchasers for the current year wereMexico and Honduras, it said.    Soybean sales of 240,500 tonnes were one-fifth below theprior week and nearly one-third below the four-week average.    Japan, Mexico, South Korea, Italy and Israel were the majorpurchasers, the department said.    Net sales of 117,700 tonnes of soybean cake and meal fell31 pct from the previous week and 38 pct below the four-weekaverage. Major increases for West Germany, Venezuela, theNetherlands and Saudi Arabia were partially offset byreductions for unknown destinations, USDA said.    Activity in soybean oil resulted in decreases of 2,400tonnes, with sales to unknown destinations down by 2,700tonnes, while sales to Canada increased 200 tonnes, theDepartment said.    Combined sales of 71,300 running bales of cotton -- 60,200bales for the current season and 11,100 bales for 1987/88season -- were four-fifths higher than the prior week's levelbut nine pct below the four-week average.    Mexico was the dominant buyer for the current year followedby Zaire, Italy, and Spain, the department said.The primary buyers for the 1987/88 season were South Korea,Spain, Japan and Taiwan, the department said.    Sorghum sales of 143,300 tonnes were 25 pct less than theprior week, with Japan and Venezuela the main buyers.  Reuter
JAPAN SEES MARGINAL RISE IN EDIBLE OIL DEMAND The Agriculture Ministry estimatesJapan's edible oil demand will rise 1.5 pct in calendar 1987 to1.68 mln tonnes from 1.65 mln in 1986.    Domestic consumption will rise to 1.66 mln tonnes in 1987from 1.64 mln in 1986, while imports will rise to 77,000 tonnesfrom 70,000 and exports will be unchanged at 14,000.    Edible oil supplies will total 1.75 mln tonnes in 1987against 1.73 mln last year, including domestic output of 1.60mln against 1.55 mln. Domestic supplies will comprise 725,000of soybean oil (706,000 in 1986), 638,000 of rapeseed oil(609,000) and 235,000 of other origin oils (231,000). REUTER
SAUDI ARABIA SEEKING RBD PALM OLEIN Saudi Arabia is in the market for 4,000tonnes of refined bleached deodorised palm olein for June 1/10shipment, traders said. REUTER
SAUDI ARABIA BUYS RBD PALM OLEIN Saudi Arabia bought 4,000 tonnes ofMalaysian refined bleached deodorised palm olein for June 1/10shipment at around 356 dlrs per tonne cost and freight Jeddah,traders said. Reuter
TAIWAN LIKELY TO BUY MORE U.S. SOYBEANS A 50 pct cut in the import tariff forsoybeans should help boost 1987 U.S. Soybean exports to Taiwan,a spokesman for the joint committee of soybean importers toldReuters.    He said the cut to 3.5 from seven pct was approved by thecabinet yesterday and would go into effect within a week.    The cut will encourage local importers to increase 1987soybean imports to 1.9 mln tonnes from 1.74 mln last year, hesaid. The previous target for 1987 was 1.81 tonnes.    Taiwan imports more than 90 pct of its soybeans from theU.S. And the rest from South America.    The spokesman said the increase in imports from the U.S. Isin line with government efforts to reduce Taiwan's tradesurplus with Washington, which rose to 3.61 billion U.S. Dlrsin the first quarter of 1987 from 2.78 billion a year ago.    "The tariff cut is very helpful for American suppliers (whowant) to boost their exports to Taiwan," Steve Chen, countrydirector of the American Soybean Association, told Reuters. REUTER
PAKISTAN RETENDERS TODAY FOR RBD PALM OIL - TRADE Pakistan will retender today for 6,000 to 12,000tonnes of refined bleached deodorised palm oil for first half Mayshipment, traders said. REUTER
PAKISTAN BUYS 6,000 TONNES RBD PALM OIL - TRADERS Pakistan bought 6,000 tonnes of rbd palmoil at its import tender today for first half May shipment,traders said.    The price was believed to be in the region of 345.50 dlrsper tonne cost and freight, but confirmation is awaited, theysaid.    Pakistan sought to buy up to 12,000 tonnes for first halfMay and has not said when it is likely to tender for thebalance. REUTER
TRADERS CONFIRM SOME INDIAN PALM OLEIN PURCHASES Traders said the Indian State TradingCorporation (STC) bought three 6,000 tonne cargoes of refinedbleached deodorised palm olein at its import tender today. Theyalso said the STC is still in the market and additionalbusiness may be concluded over the weekend.    The confirmed business comprised two cargoes of rbd oleinfor June shipment at 351.50 dlrs per tonne and one July at 352dlrs cif, all on 30 pct counter trade. Reuter
SPANISH SUNOIL EXPORTERS SEEK SEED CLEARANCE Spanish exporters are asking thegovernment to clear 33,200 tonnes of sunflower seed authorisedfor export by the European Community (EC), a spokesman for oneof Spain's major sunflower oil producers said.    He told Reuters in a telephone interview the government washolding back on authorisation to hold prices low.    "They are deliberately keeping prices down to help meet thisyear's inflation target despite the threat of a surplus on whatlooks like a bigger harvest than we expected," he said.    He said the policy of allowing stocks to accumulate hadcaused a price drop, with raw oil prices falling to 147 pesetasa kilo from 160 at the start of the 1986/87 marketing yearending July 31.    Sunflower oil output was expected to rise to 370,000 tonnesthis year from 340,000 last year, with seed output up at905,000 tonnes from 860,000 last year.    He said domestic consumption was falling due to imports ofother edible oils. "We estimate demand at 296,000 tonnes thisyear, leaving a 124,000 tonne surplus with the 50,000 tonnesnow stockpiled," he said. "If we discount 24,000 tonnes held forstrategic purposes, this still leaves us with 100,000 tonnes." Reuter
ASCS SEEKS 12.5 MLN POUNDS VEG OIL FOR EXPORT The Agricultural Stabilization andConservation Service (ASCS) is seeking 12.5 mln pounds ofvegetable oil for export June 6-20 and June 21/July 5, an ASCSofficial said.    Offers must be received at the Kansas City Commodity Officeby 1430 CDT May 4, and successful offerors will be notified May5. reuter
EC FARM MINISTERS END PRICES MEETING STILL DIVIDED European Community (EC) agricultureministers ended a three-day meeting in Luxembourg still deeplydivided over plans by the EC Commission to curb the cost of theEC's farm policy through sharp cuts in farm returns.    Their chairman, Belgium's Paul de Keersmaeker, told a newsconference after the meeting he would work on a paper settingout possible compromise solutions in the next two weeks, withthe hope that the ministers can get down to detailednegotiations at a meeting in Brussels on May 18.    But diplomats said the talks this week had served littlemore than to clarify member states' positions on the complexpackage of measures proposed by the commission.    The executive body has proposed measures which would resultin price cuts this year for many crops of upwards of 10 pct.    Other controversial plans include a tax on EC-produced andimported oilseeds and fats to bring in two billion Europeancurrency units, to help the EC's cash crisis, and changes inthe conversion of EC common farm prices into nationalcurrencies which would inflict extra burdens on West German andDutch farmers.    De Keersmaeker attempted yesterday to narrow differencesbetween EC states on the oils tax proposal, the currencymeasures and the key question of cereals prices and associatedmeasures.    But he told journalists, "We have used this meeting to reachthe point at which real negotiations can start at the nextmeeting. Ideally they should have started now but ourprocedures took much longer than planned."    Ministers are in theory supposed to agree a price packageby April 1 each year, although this target is seldom reached inpractice.    Diplomats said on all the points there were widelydiverging views, with Britain and the Netherlands, thecountries most supportive of commission proposals for cerealsprice cuts, strongly opposed to the oils tax.    However, de Keersmaeker said West German objections to themonetary proposals could prove the most difficult issue toresolve. "This is a very tough political nut, and because of thevery nature of the problem there is no technical solution," hesaid. Commission sources said farm commissioner FransAndriessen was prepared to alter some technical aspects of hisproposals to make an agreement easier.    However, because of the EC's budgetary crisis, he hadlittle room for concessions to pleas for a cut in the impact ofhis proposals on farmers' incomes as several ministers, led byGermany's Ignaz Kiechle, are demanding.    EC Commission president Jacques Delors has warned that theEC will have an accumulated budgetary deficit of over fivebillion Ecus by the end of this year, even if the commissionfarm price package is adopted in its entirety. REUTER
BELGIAN MINISTER TO REVIEW EC OILS/FATS TAX PLAN Belgian Agriculture Minister Paul deKeersmaeker said he would review EC Commission proposals for atax on imported and EC produced vegetable oils and fats in thelight of objections made by certain EC member states.    De Keersmaeker, current chairman of the EC farm ministers'council, was speaking after a three-day meeting of ministers atwhich the tax proposal was one of the key themes.    He said he would review the position as part of plans topresent compromise proposals for the 1987/88 farm price packageto the next meeting, starting in Brussels on May 18.    De Keersmaeker, who said there was "a great deal ofresistance in many delegations" to the tax, declined to say whataspects of the proposals he would review.    However, EC Commission sources said they are expected toinclude the question of whether it should apply to marine oils.    They said Denmark and Portugal might agree to the tax, tobe set initially at 330 Ecus a tonne, if these oils, of whichthey are major producers, were excluded.    The sources said, however, that Britain, the Netherlandsand West Germany continue to have strong objections to the tax,partly because of fears that its impact on U.S. Soybean exportscould provoke transatlantic trade friction.    They said that, if these three countries held firm to thisposition, they would be able to block the proposal under theEC's majority voting mechanism. Reuter
PHILIPPINE COCONUT CHIEF TO LOBBY AGAINST EC TAX Philippine Coconut Authority (PCA)chairman Jose Romero said he would visit Brussels later thismonth to lobby against a proposed 100 pct European Community(EC) levy on vegetable oil imports.    "I intend to visit Brussels and talk to whoever is puttingup this devilish scheme to impoverish third world countrieslike the Philippines," Romero said in an interview.    He said he did not know how much support the levy hadwithin the EC but he said he believed those originally opposedto the tax were under pressure to change their position.    Romero said a group of EC members led by West Germany, theNetherlands, Denmark and Norway were opposed to the tax. Butthere was a danger some of them would be persuaded to changesides, and if that happened opposition could crumble.    Romero said another threat to exports lay in an EC warningthat copra meal cake used in livestock feeds containeddangerous levels of aflatoxin, a carcinogenic chemical.    He said the EC standard of 0.02 parts of aflatoxin permillion parts of meal, which EC countries had been asked toapply by October 1988, was too rigid. He said Philippine copracake contained much higher levels of aflatoxin.    Aflatoxin comes from moulds which develop in copra when itis not properly dried or ground.    Romero said he would tell big buyers of copra meal inLondon that the Philippines was doing its best to meet ECstandards. It was also trying to eliminate aflatoxin totally,but this was likely to take several years of research.    Copra meal exports were 817,641 tonnes or 35 pct of totalcoconut exports in 1986. The meal was worth 73.5 mln dlrs.    Romero said he would also visit Oxford University'sdepartment of agricultural economics to discuss ways ofavoiding the copra process altogether.    "There are ways of producing coconut products outside ofcopra," Romero said. "We can process fresh coconut without dryingthe meat in the sun. Through the wet process we can processcoconuts into other food or non-food products, or we can go tothe chemical root."    He said there was a tendency for agricultural countries tobecome more protectionist and he expected export prices ofcoconut products to drop.    "In the long term we will be getting less and less for moreand more production, and I'm not comfortable with that," hesaid.    With countries like Indonesia and Malaysia stepping upproduction of palm oil, a coconut oil substitute, palm oiloutput had risen nearly 70 pct since 1971, Romero said.    "To add to that the U.S. Soybean Association is spendingbillions of dollars to discredit palm oil and coconut oil bysaying that they are polysaturated fats and bad for the heart,"he said.    Romero said he expected coconut product export prices tostay up for the rest of the year. They would probably touch ahigh of 20 cents/pound from the current level of 18.59 cents,and a sharp rise from year-ago levels of 10.50 cents.    Romero said the Philippines was at the end of a five-yearcoconut production cycle which showed production tended to fallafter two successive years of good harvests.    He said 1985 and 1986 were good harvests and this year, toadd to the production fall, drought had affected output.    "Traders are stocking up and when they have overbought theprices will start declining again. The only sure way to keepprices stable is by processing, adding more value," he said.    Coconut farmers were being encouraged to intercrop byplanting other cash crops between coconut trees, he said.    "A typical farm may have from 100 to 150 trees sitting on10,000 square metres of land. That's a lot of space," Romerosaid. He said the government's proposed land reform programwould exclude about 75 pct of the coconut farmers because theyhad less than the proposed seven-hectares of land.    "If the idea of land reform is to increase income levels,production and employment then it won't happen," he said.    PCA figures show about one-third of the country'spopulation is dependent on the coconut industry.    Coconuts are planted on about 3.2 mln hectares orone-fourth of total agricultural land. REUTER
ANDRIESSEN HINTS FATS/OIL TAX COULD GO TO SUMMIT European Community (EC)Agriculture Commissioner Frans Andriessen said his proposal fora tax of up to 330 European Currency Units per tonne on oilsand fats was likely to go up for discussion at next week'ssummit meeting of EC leaders.    EC farm ministers have been unable to agree the tax, one ofthe main items proposed by Andriessen for the 1987-88 farmprice package.    The tax, which would apply on both domestically-producedand imported oils and fats, has been fiercely opposed by theUnited States and developing countries' vegetable and marineoil producers. Reuter
ACP STATES SAY EC OILS TAX PLAN BREAKS ACCORDS Developing countries said the EuropeanCommunity (EC) would breach two international agreements if itwent ahead with its plans for an oils and fats tax.    Ambassadors to the EC from African, Caribbean and Pacific(ACP) states told a press conference the tax would hit theexports of 26 ACP countries.    They said the EC failed to follow consultation procedureslaid down in the Lome Convention which regulates relationsbetween ACP states and the bloc for moves which could affecttrade between the two sides.    They also said the EC would be in breach of an undertakingnot to bring in new protectionist measures during the currentPunta del Este round of world trade negotiations being heldunder GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) auspices.    The EC Commission has proposed a tax of up to 330 Europeancurrency units (Ecus) a tonne on both imported and EC-producedvegetable and marine fats for human consumption, which couldraise up to two billion Ecus a year.    EC farm ministers, who would have to approve such a tax,are split on the issue and are expected to decide it at amarathon meeting on EC farm prices beginning in Luxembourg onJune 15.    Jamaican ambassador Leslie Wilson said ACP countries areconvinced this would lead to EC industry substituting productsmade within the bloc for oil and fat imports. The ACP estimatesthis would result in a fall of 160 to 185 mln Ecus in itsmember country exports.    "We can't believe the EC would willingly take measures toundermine our countries, but such would be the impact of thesemeasures," Wilson said.    The U.S. and Malaysia say their exports would also be hitby the proposed tax and they may take retaliatory action if itis approved.    Wilson said the ACP would take such steps only "as a verylast resort," but added that the ACP is in touch with othercountries which oppose the plan.    Wilson, who was chairing the news conference, made it clearJamaica itself would not be hit by the tax as it does notexport oils and fats.    Among the worst hit countries would be Ivory Coast,Senegal, Nigeria and Papua New Guinea, the ACP says. Reuter
EC FARM CRISIS LIKELY TO GO TO END-JUNE SUMMIT Plans for key reforms of the EuropeanCommunity's (EC) controversial farm policy will almostcertainly have to be referred to the bloc's heads of governmentat a summit meeting on June 29 and 30, Belgian finance ministerMark Eyskens said today.    Eyskens was speaking at a news conference after chairing ajoint meeting of EC finance and agriculture ministers which wasdesigned to help break a deadlock over this year's EC farmprice package which has endured since March.    Diplomats quoted EC Executive Commission president JacquesDelors as saying at the same meeting that it would be adisaster if the two most difficult issues at the farm talks hadto be referred to heads of government.    These issues are a Commission plan for a tax on marine andvegetable fats and oils, and proposals to change the system bywhich EC farm prices, expressed in European currency units(Ecus), are translated into the currencies of member states.    The oils and fats tax is opposed by a group of countrieswhich fears it could provoke trade retaliation by the U.S., Amajor exporter of soybeans to the EC.    West Germany, meanwhile, is strongly against the technicalcurrency move, which would result in additional price cuts forfarmers in countries with strong currencies, such as the mark.    Commission sources said Delors is anxious that the twoissues are not referred to the summit because this would meanheads of government diverting their attention from much moreimportant world and Community issues.    Eyskens said decisions from heads of government were alsolikely to be less sound since they do not usually interestthemselves in such technically complex questions.    However, Eyskens said today's meeting had thrown up somenuances in member state positions "which may make the dialoguemore constructive in the next few weeks."    If farm prices are not decided by the end of this month,the Commission could use its own powers to impose a seven pctcut in cereals prices, farm trade sources said. It originallyproposed measures to cut farm spending by 1.1 billion Ecus thisyear, with effective price cuts of over 10 pct for some crops.    Diplomats said farm ministers might be able to agree aprice package cutting spending by around 340 mln Ecus but fortheir disagreements on the oils/fats tax and on currencyreforms.    The finance ministers were called in to emphasise the needfor budgetary restraint in the face of an almost certain ECbudget deficit of over five billion Ecus this year.    Although Delors was said by aides to have found today'smeeting very useful, diplomats said there was little sign of amajor shift in the position of member states, or of financeministers adopting a different line from that of theiragriculture colleagues.    The farm ministers are expected to meet for most of thisweek in Luxembourg in a pre-summit attempt to bridge theirdifferences. REUTER
SPAIN COMES OUT AGAINST EC FATS TAX Spain has joined the group ofEuropean Community countries opposed to the proposed tax onmarine and vegetable oils and fats, diplomatic sources said.    They said the Spanish position was clarified at a jointmeeting here of EC finance and agriculture ministers to discussthe budgetary situation surrounding this year's EC farm pricenegotiations.    Previously, West Germany, Britain, Portugal and Denmarkhave declared themselves against the tax with Spain's positionunclear, the sources said.    The sources said Spanish junior finance minister Guillermode la Dehesa said Spain was against the tax because of itsimplications for world trade talks within the General Agreementon Tariffs and Trade and because it was discrimatory byexcluding butter.    They said the countries now opposed to the tax have farmore votes than needed under the EC's majority voting system toblock the proposal. Reuter
CAOBISCO CONDEMNS EC OILS AND FATS TAX PROPOSAL The proposed European Community (EC) levyon oils and fats has been criticised by CAOBISCO, theassociation of EC biscuit, chocolate and confectionerymanufacturers.    In a letter to the President of the Council of Ministers,M. Eyskens, the association said the tax would cost the ECbiscuit, cake, chocolate and confectionery industries almost200 mln European currency units per year.    The tax also was contrary to the spirit of the GeneralAgreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and could prompt U.S.Retaliatory measures on EC exports, CAOBISCO said.    In a parallel move the British Biscuit, Cake, Chocolate andConfectionery Alliance has written to U.K. Chancellor of theExchequer Nigel Lawson urging him to oppose the levy.    President Charles Gillett said the tax was extending theCommission's powers by allowing it to set levels of consumertaxation, an area previously reserved for national treasuries. Reuter
GERMANY PLANS TO RUSH SPECIAL CREDITS TO FARMERS Bonn is expected to rush throughlegislation this month creating special credits to protect WestGerman farmers from a proposed European Community, EC, paymentsfreeze, government sources said.    The new measures are apparently designed to shield WestGerman farmers from the consequences of the looming EC budgetcrisis and give Bonn scope to keep up its opposition to the ECexecutive commission's farm policy reform plans, politicalsources said.    EC finance and farm minsters held an unprecedented jointsession in Luxembourg today to try to solve the stalemate overfuture farm financing.    West Germany has proved the main obstacle to Commissionattempts to raise fresh funds for farm financing by taxingimports of vegetable oil and fats, for fear of U.S.retaliation.    Bonn has also opposed the abolition of an agri-monetarymechanism that acts as a subsidy for West German farm exports.    The draft legislation, which the ruling centre-rightcoalition will present to parliament tomorrow, would providetemporary credits for farm subsidies usually paid by Brussels.    The Commission, facing a five billion European CurrencyUnits (5.73 billion dlrs) budget deficit by the end of theyear, has threatened to start phasing out payment of somesubsidies and premiums from August, unless EC member statestake urgent measures to provide fresh funds.    West German Agriculture Minister Ignaz Kiechle gave the newlegislation top priority after last month's failure to agree toa farm price package for 1986/87.    Political sources in Bonn said Kiechle decided to take thesting out of proposed Commission measures to cut back subsidiesby creating a buffer for West German farmers.    The opposition SPD has agreed to back the Kiechle bill andallow its hasty passage through parliament by July 1, ahead ofthe summer recess, SPD sources said.    SPD farm policy spokesman Jan Oostergetelo said his partywould support the bill, even though it would further swellmassive government spending on agriculture. He said the billwas an admission that the government believes the farm pricetalks will fail and the EC faces bankruptcy.    According to a copy of the draft bill obtained by Reuters,government authorities will have over two billion marks (1.1billion dlrs) available to pay farmers advance subsidies andpremiums for grains and other crops harvested this summer.    The Commission has agreed to pay the subsidies eventually.But paying farmers on time will cost Bonn about 100 mln marks(55 mln dlrs) in interest payments, farm policy sources said.    Chancellor Helmut Kohl's cabinet is expected to support thebill when it meets tomorrow. Reuter
EC CONSIDERS NEW PROPOSALS TO END FARM DEADLOCK The European Community (EC) executiveCommission will today urgently consider whether to take a newinitiative to break the current deadlock over reform of thebloc's farm policy and to ease its budgetary crisis.    The Commission will meet in Strasbourg following whatdiplomats described as a largely fruitless special jointmeeting of farm and finance ministers on the issue inLuxembourg Monday.    Commission officials said farm commissioner FransAndriessen will ask the 17-man body for permission to presentfarm ministers with a compromise plan revising proposals for1987/88 farm prices which have divided them since they werefirst announced in March.    The most controversial aspects of these proposals are aplan to tax all vegetable and marine oils and fats to financerapidly increasing production subsidies and technical measureswhich would change the way common EC farm prices are convertedinto member state currencies.    West German delegation sources, who have opposed both plansfiercely, said if the Commission dropped the oils and fats taxplan and modified the currency proposals, there would be achance of agreement on other aspects of the package.      These include measures to cut the effective price paid tofarmers for cereals and some other crops by over 10 pct.      But a Commission spokesman said any new proposals wouldinclude plans for revising the current oils and fats andcurrency regulations.     The Commission is anxious to avoid a complete deadlock inmeetings of EC farm ministers here this week as it fears issuescould then be referred to the EC heads of government summit atthe end of the month.    Commission president Jacques Delors, who wants to ensurethe summit has ample time to consider proposals for new meansof financing the cash-strapped EC, said yesterday it would be"disastrous" if farm issues had to be discussed by governmentleaders.    However, with a five billion European Currency Unit (5.75billion dollar) EC budget deficit almost inevitable this year,the Commission will be wary of making major concessions to thetraditionally free-spending farm ministers, diplomats said    Belgian finance minister Mark Eyskens, who chairedyesterday's joint meeting of ministers, said afterwards someaspects of the farm price package will almost certainly have tobe referred to the summit.    Although Delors' aides described the joint meeting asuseful in clarifying the issues, some diplomats said it seemedto have merely confirmed member states' long held positions.    Indeed, they said an extra state, Spain, seemed to havelined up with the four others already opposing the oils andfats tax, West Germany, Britain, Denmark and Portugal. Reuter
EC COMMISSION MODIFIES OILS TAX PLAN The EC Commission has proposed amodified plan for a tax on marine and vegetable oils and fatsin its revised 1987/88 farm price proposals, an officialdocument detailing the proposals shows.    The document, made available to journalists, says thecommission proposes that the tax should start at levelsoriginally proposed for vegetable oils on October 1.    However, the tax on marine oils and fats would be cut by 50pct from originally envisaged levels, the document said.    In addition, the Commission proposes that the level of thetax, expected to start at 330 Ecus per tonne, could be reviewedevery three months rather than annually.    Diplomatic sources said the change to the proposals forfish oils appears to be an attempt to overcome objections tothe tax from Portugal and Spain, major fishing nations.    Other countries opposing the tax include Britain, WestGermany and Denmark.    The new proposals retain most of the Commission's originalplans in other sectors.    However, they mark the Commission's recognition that itcannot get proposals to reduce the period of intervention forcereals, diplomats said.    Instead the Commission proposes to cut the monthlyincrements applied to cereals during the November to May periodwhen intervention is open to 2.7 Ecus a tonne for durum wheatand two Ecus a tonne for other cereals.    The document shows the Commission has also changed itsgreen currency proposals in the light of heavy opposition,notably from West Germany.    West German and Dutch positive monetary compensatoryamounts (MCAs) would be immediately cut by 0.5 points, with afurther one point cut at the beginning of the 1988/89 season.    The Commission originally proposed a complete dismantlingof positive MCAs.     For other countries, the Commission makes the followingproposals for dismantling negative MCAs     Denmark and Benelux - reduction of around 1.5 points foranimal products and just over two points for crops.     France and Ireland - proposals unchanged except for anextra 1.5 point cut for beef.     Italy - dismantling of all MCAs except those created sinceJanuary 12.    Britain - five point cut for most products, 6.5 points forbeef.    Greece, Spain and Portugal - for most products, dismantlingof seven, 14 and 5.5 points respectively. Reuter
DUTCH PARLIAMENT BACKS STAND AGAINST OILS TAX Dutch parliamentary parties havere-affirmed their support for the government's opposition tothe proposed European Community tax on oils and fats,parliamentarians said.    A broad cross-section of members of parliament voiced theiropposition to the tax during a debate in the lower houseyesterday on the basis of possible retaliation from the U.S.And on the potentially damaging effect on Third Worldcountries.    State Secretary for Foreign Affairs Rene Van Der Lindensaid the government was against the tax although it noteddeepening EC financial difficulties.    "It is difficult to be against the tax and against extrafinance. The EC members have to make a choice," Van Der Lindensaid.    However, he denied the government had dropped itsopposition to the proposed tax or altered its position. REUTER
RPT - OPPOSITION TO EC OILS TAX INTACT - MINISTER A minority group of EuropeanCommunity countries strong enough to block the adoption of atax on vegetable and marine oils and fats is still intact afterthe EC Commission proposed changes to its proposals earliertoday, British agriculture minister John MacGregor toldjournalists.    He said Britain, West Germany, the Netherlands and Denmarkcontinue to oppose the tax after the Commission proposed makingit temporary and promising compensation to any third countrieswhose exports suffered. Reuter
DUTCH CONSUMERS/INDUSTRY SEE VEG OILS TAX THREAT Dutch consumers and food processorswould be hit hard by the proposed EC tax on oils and fats, Dickde Bruyn, chairman of the commodity board for margarine, fatsand oils, MVO, said at the annual meeting.    The Dutch are the second largest consumers of margarine andfourth largest consumers of vegetable oils in the EC.    The fiercely contested tax would be a levy on consumers andsteeply increase the costs of industries such as potatoprocessing and cake and biscuit manufacturing, de Bruyn said.    "A move by these industries to countries outside the ECcannot be ruled out," he added.    De Bruyn said the tax on vegetable and marine oils and fatswould be wide open to fraud, difficult to police, and hugelyexpensive administratively.    He also said the proposed tax contravened not only articlethree of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), theLome Convention, and the United Nations Food and AgricultureOrganization (FAO) guidelines, but also the EC's own Treaty.    The proposed tax would not only be inflationary but alsohave consequences for employment and investment, he added. Reuter
GROWTH OF PALM OIL USE SET TO SLOW, OUTPUT TO RISE The rate of increase in world palm oiluse is likely to slow next season despite an expected 800,000tonne production rise to 8.13 mln tonnes, Siegfried Mielke,editor of the Hamburg-based newsletter Oil World said.    He told the 8th Antwerp Oils and Fats Contact Days that inthe next Oct/Sept 1987/88 season, palm oil use will rise to8.25 mln tonnes from 7.71 mln, below the five-year averageincrease of 550,000 tonnes.     Opening stocks at the start of next October are expectedto be about 1.4 mln tonnes, 300,000 tonnes below year-earlierlevels, bringing total supplies to 9.5 mln tonnes, he said.    The anticipated total supplies will be about 500,000 tonnesabove this season's available amount, Mielke said.    The increase in mature palm tree areas in Malaysia willslow down from this year on, but that will be offset by areaexpansion in Indonesia, he said.    He estimated the combined rise in Malaysian and Indonesianmature area at 8.7 pct next year, after 9.5 pct this year, andat 6.7 pct in 1989 and 5.0 pct in 1990.    Malaysia also is shifting plantings to Sabah and Sarawak,where the rate of expansion is higher than in the Peninsula,but where yields are lower, he said.     The stocks/usage ratio of seven major oils is alsoexpected to decline, Mielke said. The oils are soybean,cottonseed, sunflowerseed, coconut, rapeseed, palmkernel andpalm.    At the start of October 1986 stocks of these oils wereunusually high and represented 6.8 weeks of the currentseason's prospective demand, compared with six weeks a year agoand with 5.4 weeks in 1984, he said.    Mielke expects the ratio to fall to 5.9 weeks by the startof next October and to the unusually low level of 5.4 weeks bythe end of next season.    The stocks/usage ratio for palm oil was 11.4 weeks lastOctober and is likely to be 8.7 weeks next October and 7.7 atthe end of next season, Mielke said.    World oilseed stocks also are expected to fall in thecourse of the next season, with the biggest reduction seen insoybean stocks, which Mielke expects to decline by 5.0 mlntonnes or by one fifth.    Almost all of the decline is expected to occur in the U.S.,for which he estimated ending stocks next season at 10.7 mlntonnes, or 393 mln bushels, against anticipated ending stocksof 15 mln tonnes, or 551 mln bushels, at the end of thisseason. Reuter
INDIA BUYS PALM OLEIN AT TENDER - TRADERS The Indian State Trading Corp (STC) arereported to have taken three parcels, around 5,000 tonnes each,of palm olein at yesterday's weekly vegetable oil tender,traders said.    All are for August shipment at 364 dlrs a tonne cif. Indiapassed on all other materials, they added. REUTER
MALAYSIA TO RESEARCH TIN, WARY ON VEG OILS TAX Malaysia is to urge fellow tinproducing countries to contribute more money towards researchinto new uses for the metal, Malaysian primary industriesminister Lim Keng Yaik told Reuters in an interview.    Lim, in Brussels on a tour of Europe and America, said hehad instructed Malaysia's representatives on the executivecommittee of the Association of Tin Producing Countries, ATPC,to draw up a paper on the matter.    Lim earlier met European Community farm commissioner FransAndriessen and industry commissioner Karl-Heinz Narjes.    He said though it now appeared likely Commission proposalsfor a tax on vegetable and marine oils and fats would bedefeated, he feared the Commission would revive the idea.    Lim noted Andriessen this week promised that if the tax wasadopted and third countries suffered export losses as a result,they would be compensated through access to the EC foralternative exports.    "Since most of our products are commodity based, I cannotsee how this would work out in our case," Lim said.    Malaysian palm oil exports to the EC are worth about 250mln dlrs a year.    The tin research proposal would be presented at an ATPCmeeting to be held in Kuala Lumpur in September.    "Not enough research and development effort has been put inby tin producers and we have been pushed out by substitutessuch as aluminium, paper and plastics," Lim said.    He mentioned the use of inorganic tin in pesticides as anexciting possible new application.    Lim said he could not estimate the amount of extra moneywhich needed to be spent on research into new uses before thenew paper was produced.    He said Narjes told him there appeared no fundamentalbarriers to EC states quickly ratifying the new InternationalRubber Agreement, INRA, although translations of the accordinto some EC languages are still being awaited.    Lim, who will sign and ratify the agreement on Malaysia'sbehalf when he visits New York during his current tour, said itwas important there should not be a long "interregnum" betweenthe old agreement lapsing in October and the new one cominginto force.    He described the present accord as a model for commodityagreements due to its being signed by nearly all producing andconsuming countries and by virtue of its review systems andcontrol over buffer stock management. Reuter
EC PRESIDENCY PREPARED TO DROP OILS AND FATS TAX Belgium, current holder of the EuropeanCommunity presidency, appears ready to drop a controversialoils and fats tax from this year's hotly-contested farm pricepackage, diplomats said.    In a discussion document prepared for today's summitmeeting of EC leaders, Belgium proposed the so-called"stabilising mechanism" be the subject of "further study andconsultation with the Community's main trading partners."    The proposal for a tax of as much as 330 Ecus per tonne onboth imported and domestically-produced vegetable and marineoils and fats has attracted a storm of international criticism.    The discussion document, aimed at preventing a cash row atthe summit and breaking the deadlock at this year's farm pricetalks, contained the first formal reference to dropping themeasure.    Britain and Denmark, which assumes the EC presidency onJune 30, have led the opposition to the measure. They aresupported by West Germany and the Netherlands and, to a lesserextent, Spain.    Although the paper was not universally welcomed, diplomatssaid, the proposal to postpone consideration of the tax for afurther six months was certain to survive any redrafting. REUTER
FRANCO-GERMAN PARLEY FAILS TO UNBLOCK FARM TALKS A specially convened Franco-Germanmeeting in the sidelines of a summit of EC leaders failed tomake any progress over a 1987-88 farm price package that hasdeeply split the two former EC allies, diplomats said    The meeting was attended by farm ministers and foreignministers from both countries and by French President FrancoisMitterand, his Prime Minister Jacques Chirac, and by ChancellorHelmut Kohl of West Germany.    The stalemate over farm prices is seen as a key toproviding a solution to a long-term settlement of theCommunity's worst-ever budget crisis.    "The Germans clearly do not want to budge," an aide to Chiractold reporters. He added the French Prime Minister was visiblyangered as he the hour-long meeting.    Bonn and Paris are diametrically opposed to a proposal forthe Brussels Executive Commission to overhaul radically theEC's complex "green" currrency system, designed to translatecommon EC farm prices into national currencies.    Paris also supports a move for an oils and fats tax whichWest Germany is against, along with Britain, Denmark and theNetherlands.    EC farm minsters are due to resume negotiations on thepackage, which should have been agreed by an April 1 deadlinetomorrow.    Diplomats said it had been hoped that the summit could haveinjected fresh impetus into those talks.    The Commission proposed its package to save one billiondollars on the EC's ever-rising farm budget.    The summit has been dominated by lengthy talks on moves toalter the entire system of financing the 12-nation group, andplugging a 5.7 billion dollar budget shortfall for 1987. Reuter
LYNG SAYS INDIA FOOD AID PACKAGE NOT READY The United States and India havenot yet agreed on a food aid package to help thedrought-stricken Asian country, Agriculture Secretary RichardLyng said.    Lyng told Reuters in an interview that the two countrieshave been discussing a package but that he did not expect thespecifics of the offer to be announced during Indian PrimeMinister Rajiv Gandhi's visit here this week.    "We have been talking about the potential needs that Indiamight have for both their commercial market and purchases needsas well as the possibilities of assistance," Lyng said.    "At this point, there is no detailed plan or program. Theamounts of what commodities are uncertain. But we haveindicated to the Indians that we stand ready to assist inwhatever way they deem most valuable," he said.    There has been speculation in trade circles that USDA wouldoffer India subsidized vegetable oil under the exportenhancement program and donate surplus corn under Section 419of an amended 1949 law.    Lyng indicated the two countries have been unable to agreeon the mix of concessional and commercial aid, and thatWashington would prefer the package include something otherthan donated food.    "The Indians are capable of purchasing a lot, of taking careof themselves. India is a country that has come a long way inits ability to produce food and they have a great pride inthat," Lyng said.    "We (the United States) obviously, with the surpluses westill have of many commodities..., would like to share in theimport business the Indians do, and then we have some, as wealways do, compassion for the people of India and would like tocooperate with them," he said.    Lyng said he had no plans to meet with Indian officialsduring Gandhi's visit here, adding, "I just don't know ofanything that might be announced specifically."    Asked if "the ball was in the Indians' court," he said, "Yes."    Gandhi is to leave Washington Tuesday evening. Reuter
LYNG PLEASED EC TO OFFER GATT FARM PROPOSAL U.S. Agriculture Secretary RichardLyng said he is pleased the European Community plans to offer aglobal farm reform plan at GATT later this month, although theUnited States opposes key parts of the proposal.    "We're pleased that they have moved in tabling a proposal.It will help us in getting the negotiations underway," Lyngtold Reuters in an interview Tuesday.    Lyng's comment came after EC ministers in Luxembourgendorsed a farm reform package drafted by the EC Commission.The EC plan will be presented at the next meeting of Uruguayround agriculture negotiators in Geneva on October 26.    Lyng said the United States would oppose parts of the planseeking a market sharing agreement for grains, and proposingcurbs on U.S. soybean and cereal substitute exports to Europe.    The U.S. in July proposed to GATT the elimination of allfarm subsidies affecting trade within ten years, and haspressed the EC to make a counter-offer with the aim of reachinga global farm subsidy agreement by the end of 1988.    However, the EC and some U.S. domestic groups have said theReagan administration plan to end all farm trade subsidies isunrealistic.    Asked about such criticism, Lyng said "The alternative todoing that is to say that we preserve them and maintain them. Ithink that is the unrealistic position."    "I would suggest that they (EC) listen to what we aretrying to say."    Lyng also rejected suggestions the U.S. and EC agree afreeze in export subsidies to get the GATT negotiations started.    "All that some countries would like to have would be awheat agreement where we would stop export subsidies on wheat.That doesn't do a thing for us," Lyng said.    The United States wants an end to subsidies in a range ofagricultural products from dairy products to vegetable oils, hesaid.    At the GATT negotiators meeting next week Canada isexpected to offer a proposal as well as the EC.    The United States will be represented at the meeting byformer agriculture undersecretary Daniel Amstutz, recentlyappointed special U.S. negotiator on agriculture. Reuter
COPA URGES TAX ON VEGETABLE PROTEINS The European Community's farmers'pressure group Copa has urged EC farm ministers to agree a taxon vegetable proteins similar to the oils and marine fats taxwhich has already been proposed by the EC Commission.    Copa president Hans Kjeldsen told a news conference onTuesday he had also urged ministers to seek a similar mechanismfor cereal substitutes.    He was speaking after a meeting of farm leaders with theDanish foreign and agriculture ministers, who currently chairmeetings of their EC colleagues.    Kjeldsen said taxes on the products concerned would helpthe EC's budget problems and would provide some price stabilityfor producers.    This would in turn help the market position for certaincrops of which the EC is a net importer such as oilseeds, peasand beans, but for which the Commission is now proposing severeoutput restrictions.    A minority of EC ministers opposed to an oils and fats taxon imported and domestically produced oils and marine fatssucceeded in blocking the idea during this year's annual ECprice fixing.    However, the EC Commission has said it maintains itsproposals for a tax.    Kjeldsen said Copa had urged the ministers to pursueinternational negotiations on farm trade with the aim ofbridging the gap between EC and world prices. Reuter
ASA SAYS EC OILSEED POLICY ILLEGAL UNDER GATT The American Soybean Association (ASA)denounced European Community (EC) oilseed policies as illegalunder the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, andthreatened to make an unfair trade complaint if the EC does notremedy the situation.    ASA Vice President James Adams told an ASA-sponsoredOutlook 87 conference: "It will be filed unless the EC takesdrastic and immediate steps."    "These subsidies are blatantly unfair and are GATT illegal,since they were established after the zero soybean duty wasestablished in 1962," he said.    The ASA's unfair trade petition against the EC would askfor an investigation and modification of EC oilseed policies tomake the regime non-discriminatory.    The EC in 1962 ruled all EC oilseed imports duty-free, inan effort to fill its oilseed needs. But EC oilseeds productionhas risen dramatically since then.    The EC now guarantees oilseed prices to farmers above worldmarket levels and is considering implementing a controversialoils and fats tax.    The subsidies "are obvious attempts to circumvent the zeroduty binding and that makes U.S. Farmers mad as hell," Adamssaid.    The ASA is confident the U.S. Congress will support itstrade complaint, Adams said. The ASA also strongly opposes anEC proposal to tax vegetable and marine oils consumed in theEC, which will be considered by the EC Commission in December.    U.S. Soybean world market share has declined 35 pct involume and 40 pct in value since 1982, primarily as a result ofEC policies, Adams added.    Lord Plumb, European Parliament President and a speaker atthe conference, said the EC expanded oilseed production in 1973when the U.S. Halted overseas sales of soy products. Reuter
US TROPICAL OIL LABELING PLAN SUFFERS DEFEAT A proposal to require importedtropical oils to be labeled as saturated fats suffered a narrowand possibly debilitating defeat in the U.S. Senate.    The Senate Agriculture Committee rejected the proposal by a10-8 vote, virtually snuffing out U.S. soybean producers' hopesthe plan would be adopted this year.    A similar proposal has made no headway in the House.    Sen. Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) offered the proposal as anamendment to a farm spending reduction package.    "I don't see this as a trade issue. I see it as givingAmerican consumers the information they need," he said.    Proponents of the measure, including the American SoybeanAssociation, have claimed palm, palm kernel and coconut oilsare high in saturated fat and can contribute to heart disease.    The U.S. soybean industry believes labels indicatingtropical oils are high in saturated fats would discourageconsumption of the oils, imported primarily from Malaysia,Indonesia and the Philippines.    But Sen. Richard Lugar (R-Ind.) read a letter from U.S.Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter, who said the proposal"blatantly discriminates" against imports, would be impossible todefend under international trade law and would harm relationswith the Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia.    Yeutter's letter also said Americans derive most of theirsaturated fats from meat and dairy products and relativelylittle from tropical oils.    The committee voted largely along party lines, with threeDemocrats joining seven Republicans to oppose the measure. Reuter
