JAPANESE ECONOMIST SEES STABLE YEN/DOLLAR RATES The yen should stabilize at around152 to 153 to the U.S. Dollar for about a year, the Bank ofTokyo's economic adviser Koei Narusawa said.    "Both sides are showing clear interest to secure stabilityof the currencies. The major target of the Japanese governmentis to maintain the yen at above 150, at least for the rest ofthe year," he told reporters during a brief visit to Malaysia.    Narusawa said the U.S. Is unlikely to push the yen upfurther because this might spark off inflation and depress theU.S. Economy before the 1988 presidential election.    The yen is trading at around 153.70 to the dollar. REUTER
NEW CURRENCY PROBLEM SEEN AMONG U.S, EUROPE, JAPAN The highly visible drama involving theyen's sharp rise against the U.S. Dollar is obscuring the factthat the Japanese currency has hardly budged against majorEuropean currencies, thus creating a new set of exchange ratedistortions, Japanese and European research officials said.    The officials, looking beneath the rhetoric of statementsby the Group of Five (G-5) industrial nations, told Reuters thecurrency movements of the past two years are also creating afundamentally new world trade picture, which is throwing up newtrade tensions and imbalances.    Trade figures show that the new currency alignments arealready changing the Japan-U.S. Trade axis into a Japan-European Community (EC) axis, to the discomfort of Europe.    In many ways, not least in terms of rare internationalcooperation, the September, 1985 New York Plaza pact betweenthe U.S., Japan, West Germany, Britain and France to cut downthe value of the dollar was a historic one.    But it is the underlying peaks and troughs of the majorcurrency movements which lay bare the real picture, in whichthe Plaza pact appears as an event of prime importance, but notnecessarily central significance, the officials said.    The officials said that when the Plaza agreement tookplace, the dollar was already on its way down. The agreementsimply helped it on its way. Senior EC financial expert inTokyo Tomas de Hora has watched the movements closely.    "You have to look at the dollar's peak compared with now,and that was well before Plaza," he said.    On February 25, 1985, the dollar peaked against the yen at263.15 yen. On September 20, the Friday before Plaza, it was242. Since then, despite massive Bank of Japan intervention andperiodic market frights about further G-5 concerted action, thedollar trend has been down, down, down.    Yet the ECU is now around 173.4 yen. The historical crossrates for sterling and the mark tell much the same story. TheEuropean currencies are moving back up against the yen.    The close relationship between exchange rates and tradeflows makes it difficult to see which is driving which, butundoubtedly the trade equation between the big three ischanging. In 1986, Japanese imports and exports with the ECboth grew by around 50 pct in dollar terms, five pct in yen.This gave Japan a 16 billion dlr trade surplus.    Last January, Japanese exports to the EC totalled half ofof sales to the U.S, against about a third in recent years.    Trade with the U.S in 1986 rose 23 pct for exports and 12pct for imports in dollar terms, but fell 13 pct for exportsand 21 pct for imports in yen terms.    "The basic meaning for Europe is that Japanese firms have atremendous interest in exporting to Europe, where every unitsold maximises profits in yen terms, which is what is importantto them. Suddenly, instead of the U.S., It is Europe that islaying the golden egg," said de Hora.    The EC is worried. EC business also had a remarkable yearin Japanese sales, but this can be explained partly due to itsstart from a small base, compared with total Japan-U.S. Trade.    The Japanese think EC firms are now more competitive thanU.S. Firms, a factor which is aggravating the exchange rateimbalance, and which will cause problems.    "This currency alignment between Japan and the EC isreflecting the excellent performance of the EC countries. Buttherefore, Japanese goods may keep their price competitiveedge," said Azusa Hayashi, Director of the First InternationalEconomic Affairs Division of the Foreign Ministry. "If you wantmy objective view, I don't expect a drastic improvement in ourtrade imbalance. Last year, we asked for moderation in exports,and this year we may have to do so again," he said. REUTER
U.S. COMMERCE DEPT'S ORTNER SAYS YEN IS 10 OR 15 PCT UND Texas Air Corp's <TEX> ContinentalAirlines said its February load factor fell to 60.3 pct from62.3 pct in February 1986.    Revenue passenger miles grew 95.8 pct in February to 2.75billion from 1.40 billion and 69.7 pct year-to-date to 4.85billion from 2.86 billion, the company said.    Available seat miles more than doubled in February to 4.55billion from 2.25 billion and increased 73 pct in the twomonths to 8.17 billion from 4.72 billion.    The load factor, or percentage of seats filled, fell to59.4 pct from 60.6 pct in the two months. Reuter
U.S. COMMERCE'S ORTNER SAYS YEN UNDERVALUED Commerce Dept. undersecretary ofeconomic affairs Robert Ortner said that he believed the dollarat  current levels was fairly priced against most Europeancurrencies.    In a wide ranging address sponsored by the Export-ImportBank, Ortner, the bank's senior economist also said he believedthat the yen was undervalued and could go up by 10 or 15 pct.    "I do not regard the dollar as undervalued at this pointagainst the yen," he said.    On the other hand, Ortner said that he thought that "the yenis still a little bit undervalued," and "could go up another 10or 15 pct."    In addition, Ortner, who said he was speaking personally,said he thought that the dollar against most Europeancurrencies was "fairly priced."    Ortner said his analysis of the various exchange ratevalues was based on such economic particulars as wage ratedifferentiations.    Ortner said there had been little impact on U.S. tradedeficit by the decline of the dollar because at the time of thePlaza Accord, the dollar was extremely overvalued and that thefirst 15 pct decline had little impact.    He said there were indications now that the trade deficitwas beginning to level off.    Turning to Brazil and Mexico, Ortner made it clear that itwould be almost impossible for those countries to earn enoughforeign exchange to pay the service on their debts.  He saidthe best way to deal with this was to use the policies outlinedin Treasury Secretary James Baker's debt initiative. Reuter
U.S. TREASURY SAYS NO COMMENT ON YEN VALUE A Treasury Department spokesmanrefused comment on statements by Robert Ortner, undersecretaryof economic affairs for the Commerce Department, that theJapanese yen was undervalued.    Ortner, senior economist at the Commerce Department, toldan Export-Import Bank conference "the yen is still a little bitundervalued," and "could go up another 10 or 15 pct."    Asked for reaction, a Treasury spokesman said officialswere aware of Ortner's comments but had no intention of makingany comment on them.    Ortner, who stressed he was expressing personal views, saidhe thought the U.S. dollar was "fairly priced"against most European currencies and added "I do not regard thedollar as undervalued at this point against the yen," he said.    But the yen should go up 10 or 15 pct in value, Ortnersaid, because it is undervalued against the dollar.    The United States and major trade allies West Germany,France, Britain, Japan and Canada met recently in Paris todiscuss maintaining stability in international currency values. Reuter
NEW CURRENCY PROBLEM SEEN AMONG U.S, EUROPE, JAPAN The highly visible drama involving theyen's sharp rise against the U.S. Dollar is obscuring the factthat the Japanese currency has hardly budged against majorEuropean currencies, thus creating a new set of exchange ratedistortions, Japanese and European research officials said.    The officials, looking beneath the rhetoric of statementsby the Group of Five (G-5) industrial nations, told Reuters thecurrency movements of the past two years are also creating afundamentally new world trade picture, which is throwing up newtrade tensions and imbalances.    Trade figures show that the new currency alignments arealready changing the Japan-U.S. Trade axis into a Japan-European Community (EC) axis, to the discomfort of Europe.    In many ways, not least in terms of rare internationalcooperation, the September, 1985 New York Plaza pact betweenthe U.S., Japan, West Germany, Britain and France to cut downthe value of the dollar was a historic one.    But it is the underlying peaks and troughs of the majorcurrency movements which lay bare the real picture, in whichthe Plaza pact appears as an event of prime importance, but notnecessarily central significance, the officials said.    The officials said that when the Plaza agreement tookplace, the dollar was already on its way down. The agreementsimply helped it on its way. Senior EC financial expert inTokyo Tomas de Hora has watched the movements closely.    "You have to look at the dollar's peak compared with now,and that was well before Plaza," he said.    On February 25, 1985, the dollar peaked against the yen at263.15 yen. On September 20, the Friday before Plaza, it was242. Since then, despite massive Bank of Japan intervention andperiodic market frights about further G-5 concerted action, thedollar trend has been down, down, down.    Yet the ECU is now around 173.4 yen. The historical crossrates for sterling and the mark tell much the same story. TheEuropean currencies are moving back up against the yen.    The close relationship between exchange rates and tradeflows makes it difficult to see which is driving which, butundoubtedly the trade equation between the big three ischanging. In 1986, Japanese imports and exports with the ECboth grew by around 50 pct in dollar terms, five pct in yen.This gave Japan a 16 billion dlr trade surplus.    Last January, Japanese exports to the EC totalled half ofof sales to the U.S, against about a third in recent years.    Trade with the U.S in 1986 rose 23 pct for exports and 12pct for imports in dollar terms, but fell 13 pct for exportsand 21 pct for imports in yen terms.    "The basic meaning for Europe is that Japanese firms have atremendous interest in exporting to Europe, where every unitsold maximises profits in yen terms, which is what is importantto them. Suddenly, instead of the U.S., It is Europe that islaying the golden egg," said de Hora.    The EC is worried. EC business also had a remarkable yearin Japanese sales, but this can be explained partly due to itsstart from a small base, compared with total Japan-U.S. Trade.    The Japanese think EC firms are now more competitive thanU.S. Firms, a factor which is aggravating the exchange rateimbalance, and which will cause problems.    "This currency alignment between Japan and the EC isreflecting the excellent performance of the EC countries. Buttherefore, Japanese goods may keep their price competitiveedge," said Azusa Hayashi, Director of the First InternationalEconomic Affairs Division of the Foreign Ministry. "If you wantmy objective view, I don't expect a drastic improvement in ourtrade imbalance. Last year, we asked for moderation in exports,and this year we may have to do so again," he said. REUTER...
U.S. INTERVENED TO BUY 50 MLN DLRS AGAINST YEN ON JANUARY 28,  CTS Corp said it increased its1986 loss from continuing operations to 26.6 mln dlrs from thepreviously announced 23.8 mln dlrs loss.    The 1986 figure was increased to include expenses involvedwith its settlement of a dispute with Dynamics Corp of America<DYA>.    The settlement involved a takeover bid for CTS by DynamicsCorp, which had offered to buy the shares of CTS that it didnot already own.    CTS made a profit of 7.9 mln dlrs from continuingoperations in 1985.    CTS said it charged an additional 2.8 mln dlrs in specialexpenses to its 1986 operations as a result of the DynamicsCorp settlement.    The additional expenses include the obligation to reimburseDynamics Corp, subject to approval of CTS shareholders, a totalof 2.1 mln dlrs for Dynamics Corp's expenses and other costsrelating to CTS. Reuter
U.S. INTERVENED TO AID DLR IN JANUARY, FED SAYS U.S. authorities intervened in theforeign exchange market to support the dollar on one occasionduring the period between the start of November 1986 and theend of January, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said in areport.    The Fed's quarterly review of foreign exchange operationssaid that the U.S. bought 50 mln dlrs through the sale of yenon January 28. This operation was coordinated with the Japanesemonetary authorities and was funded equally by the Fed and theU.S. Treasury.    The Fed's intervention was on the morning after presidentReagan's State of the Union message and was "in a mannerconsistent with the joint statement" made by U.S. Treasurysecretary James Baker and Japanese finance minister KiichiMiyazawa after their January 21 consultations.    At that meeting, the two reaffirmed their willingness tocooperate on exchange rate issues.    The Fed's report did not say at what level the interventionoccurred. But on January 28, the dollar closed at 151.50/60 yenafter dipping as low as 150.40 yen earlier in the session. Ithad closed at 151.05/15 yen the previous day.    The dollar had plumbed a post-World War II low of 149.98yen on January 19 and reached a seven-year low of 1.7675 markson January 28. It ended that day at 1.7820/30 marks.    The Fed noted that, after trading steadily throughoutNovember and the first half of December, the dollar movedsharply lower until the end of January.    It closed the three-month review period down more than 11pct against the mark and most other Continental currencies andseven pct lower against the yen and sterling. It had fallenfour pct against the Canadian dollar.    During the final days of January, pressure on the dollarsubsided. Reports of the U.S.-Japanese intervention operationand talk of an upcoming meeting of the major industrialcountries encouraged expectations for broader cooperation onexchange rate and economic policy matters, the Fed said.    Moreover, doubts had developed about the course of U.S.interest rates. The dollar's swift fall had raised questionsabout whether the Fed would let short-term rates ease.    Thus the dollar firmed to close the period at 1.8320 marksand 153.70 yen. According to the Fed's trade-weighted index, ithad declined nine pct since the beginning of the period.    The dollar had risen as high as 2.08 marks and 165 yen inearly November.    The Fed last intervened in the foreign exchange market onNovember 7, 1985 when it bought a total of 102.2 mln dlrs worthof marks and yen.    The Fed's action followed the September 1985 Plazaagreement between the five major industrial nations under whichthey agreed to promote an orderly decline of the dollar. Reuter
JAPAN CANNOT BEAR FURTHER YEN RISE, MINISTER SAYS Japan cannot bear a further rise of theyen, Foreign Minister Tadashi Kuranari said.    "A further stronger yen would be a misfortune for Japan andthe Japanese people would not be able to bear such a burden," hetold reporters.    The minister said he wants to tell U.S. Political leadersof the sacrifices Japan is making to cut its trade surplus.    Kuranari was widely expected to fly to Washington tomorrowfor talks focussing on trade. But departure remains uncertainbecause of the continuing parliamentary boycott by oppositionparties protesting plans for a new sales tax.    If the boycott is lifted tomorrow, Kuranari would probablyhave to remain in Japan to attend parliamentary discussions onthe government's 1987/88 budget, Japanese officials said.    Kuranari said both the U.S. And Japan should approach thetrade imbalance in a calm, unemotional manner.    But, he added, "If the issue of rice is to be raised...Iwould mention the feelings of the Japanese people."    Japanese politicians have said repeatedly the countrycannot bow to U.S. Pressure to liberalize rice imports becausethe issue is too sensitive. REUTER
JAPAN MINISTER SAYS ABOUT 170 YEN APPROPRIATE International Trade and Industry MinisterHajime Tamura told a parliamentary session Japan's small- andmedium-sized enterprises are seriously suffering from the yen'srise and can only stand levels around 170 yen.    He also said he still believes a dollar exchange rate levelplus or minus 10 yen from 170 yen would be within levels agreedupon last month in Paris by six major industrial nations.Finance ministers of Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S.And West Germany agreed on February 22 to cooperate instabilizing exchange rates around the current levels. Thedollar had closed here at 153.77 yen on February 20. REUTER
Miyazawa says current dollar/yen rate not necessarily sati Japan agreed in talks with the U.S. Toamend its laws to allow more companies to engage ininternational value-added network telecommunications services,a Post and Telecommunications Ministry official said.    Such services make communications between otherwiseincompatible computers possible over telecommunications lines.    The official said firms registering as "Special Type TwoTelecommunications Firms," which are those leasing lines fromcommon carriers, will be permitted to re-lease the lines tousers and provide international services.    Steps will also be taken to assure fairness in negotiationsbetween common carriers and firms seeking to lease lines, theofficial said.    Since December, 10 companies have registered as SpecialType Two firms, including two which have American Telephone andTelegraph Co <T> or McDonnell Douglas Corp <MD> as majorshareholders, the official said.    Currently only <Kokusai Denshin Denwa Co Ltd> and <NipponTelegraph and Telephone Corp> are allowed to operateinternational telecommunications services. REUTER
MIYAZAWA SAYS PRESENT YEN NOT NECESSARILY IDEAL Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told aparliamentary session the current dollar/yen exchange rate isnot necessarily satisfactory for the Japanese economy.    Miyazawa said the Paris currency accord among six majorindustrial nations last month does not necessarily mean the yenshould stay stable around current levels in the future.    The Paris agreement was aimed at stopping a further rapidfluctuation of exchange rates, he said.    The accord stipulated that current rates reflectfundamentals of the six nations - Britain, Canada, France,Japan, the U.S. And West Germany. REUTER
MIYAZAWA SAYS PRESENT YEN NOT NECESSARILY IDEAL Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told aparliamentary session the current dollar/yen exchange rate isnot necessarily satisfactory for the Japanese economy.    Miyazawa said the Paris currency accord among six majorindustrial nations last month does not necessarily mean the yenshould stay stable around current levels in the future.    The Paris agreement was aimed at stopping a further rapidfluctuation of exchange rates, he said.    The accord stipulated that current rates reflectfundamentals of the six nations - Britain, Canada, France,Japan, the U.S. And West Germany. REUTER
JAPAN MINISTER SAYS ABOUT 170 YEN APPROPRIATE International Trade and Industry MinisterHajime Tamura told a parliamentary session Japan's small- andmedium-sized enterprises are seriously suffering from the yen'srise and can only stand levels around 170 yen.    He also said he still believes a dollar exchange rate levelplus or minus 10 yen from 170 yen would be within levels agreedupon last month in Paris by six major industrial nations.Finance ministers of Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S.And West Germany agreed on February 22 to cooperate instabilizing exchange rates around the current levels. Thedollar had closed here at 153.77 yen on February 20. REUTER
Bank of Japan satisfied with yen around current range, senior bank offic West German retail turnover rose areal one pct in January compared with the same month a yearearlier, according to provisional data from the FederalStatistics Office.    There were 26 shopping days in January this year, the sameas in January 1986, a Statistics Office statement said.    A Statistics Office official added retail turnover hadrisen by 7.6 pct in December compared with the year-ago month,a slight upward revision from the 7.5 pct increaseprovisionally posted. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN SATISFIED WITH YEN AT CURRENT RANGE The Bank of Japan is satisfied with theyen around its current range, a senior central bank officialtold reporters.    He said the pledge by major industrial nations in Parislast month to cooperate to hold exchange rates around currentranges applied in both directions, a dollar fall or a dollarrise.    Unilateral intervention itself cannot ensure currencystability, but it can be useful when coordinated with otherpolicies and with other central banks, he said.    The Bank of Japan is rather confident currency stabilitywill continue for some time, the senior bank official said, butdeclined to be more specific.    Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told parliament on Fridaythe current dollar/yen exchange rate is not necessarilysatisfactory for the Japanese economy.    Asked what factors might destabilize the markets, theofficial cited a lessening of market fear about intervention, acompletely unexpected change in the economy of Japan, the U.S.Or West Germany, or resumption of comments by governmentofficials seeking to talk the dollar up or down.    The senior bank official said he expects Japan's grossnational product (GNP) to grow three pct or slightly more inthe fiscal year beginning in April. That would be littlechanged from the performance expected this year.    Domestic demand may grow nearly four pct in 1987/88, butthe external sector will have a negative impact on GNP ofnearly one percentage point, he said.    He said there was virtually no room for further monetarypolicy action to boost the economy. The economy's performancein the future very much depends on fiscal policy, he added.    The central bank's monetary policy has already done itspart in stimulating the economy, the senior bank official said.The Bank of Japan has cut its discount rate five times over thelast year and a half.    Although the central bank does not see any imminent risk ofinflation, there could be some problems in the future, he said."We are sitting on a barrel of powder, but fortunately it maystill be wet," he added.    Liquidity among private households and especially thecorporate sector has increased substantially, he said.    The liquidity is the reason for the recent boom of stockexchange prices, the bank official said. This inflow of fundsinto the stock exchange, occurring also in other countries, maycontinue, he said.    The senior official said the Bank of Japan is hopingFederal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker will be re-appointed whenhis current term expires later this year.    "He's a great man," the official said, adding that more andmore people expect his reappointment.    Turning to exchange rates, the official said thesubstantial drop in the dollar is beginning to have an effecton reducing the imbalance in world trade, even though theimpact has taken longer than expected to show through. Even theU.S. Trade position has begun to feel the impact, although sofar it has not been very strong, he said. REUTER
BANK OF JAPAN SATISFIED WITH YEN AT CURRENT RANGE The Bank of Japan is satisfied with theyen around its current range, a senior central bank officialtold reporters.    He said the pledge by major industrial nations in Parislast month to cooperate to hold exchange rates around currentranges applied in both directions, a dollar fall or a dollarrise.    Unilateral intervention itself cannot ensure currencystability, but it can be useful when coordinated with otherpolicies and with other central banks, he said.    The Bank of Japan is rather confident currency stabilitywill continue for some time, the senior bank official said, butdeclined to be more specific.    Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told parliament on Fridaythe current dollar/yen exchange rate is not necessarilysatisfactory for the Japanese economy.    Asked what factors might destabilize the markets, theofficial cited a lessening of market fear about intervention, acompletely unexpected change in the economy of Japan, the U.S.Or West Germany, or resumption of comments by governmentofficials seeking to talk the dollar up or down.    The senior bank official said he expects Japan's grossnational product (GNP) to grow three pct or slightly more inthe fiscal year beginning in April. That would be littlechanged from the performance expected this year.    Domestic demand may grow nearly four pct in 1987/88, butthe external sector will have a negative impact on GNP ofnearly one percentage point, he said.    He said there was virtually no room for further monetarypolicy action to boost the economy. The economy's performancein the future very much depends on fiscal policy, he added.    The central bank's monetary policy has already done itspart in stimulating the economy, the senior bank official said.The Bank of Japan has cut its discount rate five times over thelast year and a half.    Although the central bank does not see any imminent risk ofinflation, there could be some problems in the future, he said."We are sitting on a barrel of powder, but fortunately it maystill be wet," he added.    Liquidity among private households and especially thecorporate sector has increased substantially, he said.    The liquidity is the reason for the recent boom of stockexchange prices, the bank official said. This inflow of fundsinto the stock exchange, occurring also in other countries, maycontinue, he said. REUTER
YEN USURPS GODZILLA AS JAPAN'S FAVOURITE HORROR "Endaka," the strong yen, has usurped"Godzilla Versus the Sea Monster" as Japan's favourite horrorstory.    The yen's 40 pct surge against the dollar over the last twoyears has frightened foreigners with tales of the 40 dlr melon,the 120 dlr taxi ride from the airport and rents of 15,000 dlrsa month.    But "endaka," like many Japanese products, is for foreignconsumption, locals and long-time foreign residents said.    "It's not really that expensive. I don't pay attention tothe cost of living," said Cheryl Richmond, a 25-year-oldCanadian teacher of English in Tokyo.    Richmond said she earns 1,635 dlrs a month by "chatting" 40hours a week in English to Japanese who hope to learn thelanguage. For 326 dlrs a month she rents a sunny, quiettwo-room flat some 20 minutes by train from Shinjuku, one ofTokyo's prime business and entertainment districts, and hasmanaged to send home an average of 320 dlrs a month.    She spends less than 6.50 dlrs a day on food despite eatingout once a day.    "For lunch I buy the teishoku (daily special) which comeswith soba (buckwheat noodles) or pork cutlet, pickles, misosoup, rice and tea," although she takes only coffee forbreakfast and a sandwich for dinner.    No one argues that Tokyo is cheap, but long-time residentssee no need to spend the 2,000 to 15,000 dlrs a month spent byforeign firms to house executives in Western-style homes.    The companies feel otherwise. They say they must pay theprice to bring over the best people needed to back up theirpush into Japan's increasingly lucrative markets.    "You can't expect people to move from New York or Sydney andtrade down. It's not reasonable," said a spokesman forInternational Business Machines Corp (IBM), which supportsWestern lifestyles for more than 350 foreigners in Tokyo.    Tokyo is the world's most expensive city for businesstravellers, a survey issued this month by Employment ConditionsAbroad said. It found that businessmen visiting Tokyo spend onaverage more than 300 dlrs a day.    While the businessmen have little choice but to come here,many tourists, especially those from Europe, are opting tovisit sunnier and cheaper climes in Southeast Asia.    The Japan Tourist Bureau estimates "endaka" caused an 11.5pct drop in the number of foreign visitors to Japan last year.    Those who came tried to cut back on expenses, chiefly bycurtailing shopping, it said.    To help combat "endaka" and the slump in tourism, the TouristBureau prepared a pamphlet, "Economical Travel in Japan."    It gives budget-saving tips on finding medium-pricedbusiness hotels and Japanese-style inns, cheap sushi and publicbaths while getting a "revealing glimpse of Japanese in theirdaily lives."    Residents of Okubo House, a transit hotel in Tokyo'sShin-Okubo love hotel district, offer even more savvy advice.    For 9.80 dlrs a night, Scott Perry, a 23-year-old buddingEnglish teacher from New Zealand, shares an unheated,berth-sized twin-room in the Japanese "flop house."    Perry has budgeted 26 to 33 dlrs a day while he looks forwork. "Normally I eat 'teishoku' for 400 yen but sometimes I'llsplurge at Shakey's where for 550 yen you can eat unlimitedpizza for at least two hours."    Still, there are the extras that dent the budget. "I had tospend 600 yen today to dry-clean my suit coat," he said. REUTER
GLOBAL TRADING IN YEN BOND FUTURES EXPECTED SOON Global trading of yen bond futures isjust around the corner and they are expected to be listed soonon the London International Financial Futures Exchange (LIFFE)and the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT), bond managers said.    "Internationalisation of the yen through expansion ofoverseas portfolios in yen assets is the key to the success ofglobal trading of yen bond futures," said Katsuyuki Okayasu,general manager of Yamaichi Securities Co Ltd's bond division.    "But Tokyo-based orders are necessary for a primary stimulusfor the LIFFE yen bond futures market," said Tetsuya Dezuka,deputy general manager of the money market section of New JapanSecurities Co Ltd, one of the most active yen bond brokers inLondon.    Healthy growth of yen bond futures markets dependsbasically on substantial liquidity in cash yen bond marketsoverseas and on the yen becoming attractive to traders there,dealers said.    Outstanding yen cash bonds worldwide stand at around140,000 billion yen, with most held in Japan, they said.    An agreement between CBOT and LIFFE in early February onmutual settlements is expected to link U.S. Treasury bondfutures trading in London and Chicago, enabling a continuous12-hour session, bond managers here said, adding the move wasmade with yen bond futures trading in mind.    LIFFE is preparing for an early listing of yen bond futuresafter receiving approval from Japan's Finance Ministry lastDecember.    But futures markets will never take root unless they arebacked by substantial liquidity in cash bond markets, dealerssaid.    Daily transactions in the London yen cash bond market nowstand at 200 to 300 billion yen, but the extent of investor-linked transactions is unknown, securities bond managers said.    "Japanese corporations have been actively setting up theirfinancing companies in London, suggesting they increasingly areengaging in, not only fund raising, but management there,"Dezuka said.    The steep increase in the number of branches of Japanesesecurities houses in London and the growing numbers of U.S. AndU.K. Brokers coming to Tokyo has helped the London market'sgrowth, dealers said.    Internationalisation of the yen is also likely to bepromoted by yen bond trading in Chicago and New York later thisyear, securities managers said.    The recent removal of a key regulatory obstacle by the U.S.Securities and Exchange Commission will allow the CBOT to applyto the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a yen bondfutures contract, they said.    The ruling removed a regulation which prohibited tradingfutures of designated foreign government debt securities notlocated in the issuing country.    Fundamental Brokers Inc, a major U.S. Brokers' broker, hasdecided to launch yen bond broking on its display system in NewYork as early as April.    CBOT's start of an evening session, planned for the end ofApril, will also multiply yen bond futures trading, a NomuraSecurities Co Ltd bond manager said. But there are stillobstacles to trading on the London market.    "Problems concerning cash bond delivery and clearing aremajor obstacles for an early launching at LIFFE," said KokiChiyojima, deputy general manager of Nikko Securities Co Ltd'sbond administration division.    Nikko Securities Co Ltd, one of the big four Japanesesecurities houses, is responsible for corresponding with LIFFEon these matters.    Japan's Finance Ministry will start issuing bonds withcoupon payment of either March and September, or June andDecember from April 1, matching futures delivery months.    The ministry now pays coupons in January, June, July andDecember. When delivery months and coupon payments do notmatch, a 20 pct withholding tax is imposed on interest earnedby non-resident bond holders, a deterrent to LIFFE, securitiesmanagers said.    LIFFE is likely to wait until the outstanding amount ofbonds with matching months increases to over several billionyen, bond managers said.    These bonds will be used for deliveries, as they areexpected to be the cheapest deliverable issues due to lowinterest rates, they said.    Market participants here expect a clearing organisation tobe set up by the time they have substantial deliverable cashissues, making overseas listings probable in the latter half of1987. REUTER
YEN MAY RISE TO 140 TO THE DLR, NIKKEIREN SAYS The yen could rise to 140 yen to thedollar, a leading Japanese businessman said.    Bumpei Otsuki, president of the influential JapanFederation of Employers' Associations, (Nikkeiren), toldreporters: "The yen might rise as far as 140 (to the dollar).The U.S. Economy is not good, and as long as the U.S. Economyis not good, the U.S. Will put various pressures (on Japan)."    "The yen's level depends on the condition of the U.S.Economy rather than Japan's economy, and as long as theAmerican situation is bad, the yen will continue to rise," hesaid.    To cope with the negative impact of the strong yen,Japanese enterprises must strive to cut costs by all means,including holding down wages as much as possible, Otsuki said.    He rejected recent calls from some government quarters forwage increases this year as a means of raising privateconsumption and thus boosting domestic demand.    "We have to keep wages as low as possible," he said.    He also said the yen's large and rapid rise is depressingthe outlook for the Japanese economy, noting that in additionto hurting exporters it is also damaging domestic marketmanufacturers through cheap imports.    Parts of the service sector are also threatened, Otsukisaid.    Tertiary industries provide services to manufacturers and adownturn in manufacturing profits will adversely affect serviceindustries, he said.    It is also doubtful whether the tertiary sector can fullyemploy those put out of work in the manufacturing sector, hesaid.    Profits of service sector companies are likely to fall inthe business year ending in March 1988, leading to a possiblerecession in the Japanese economy, he said.    Otsuki said economic growth is unlikely to pick up beyondlevels experienced in 1986.    The government's Economic Planning Agency said last weekthe economy grew at 2.5 pct in 1986, the worst performancesince 1974 when the economy shrank 1.4 pct due to the first oilprice crisis.    In order to stimulate domestic demand and boost theeconomy, tax reforms aimed at bringing down the cost of landand reforming the nation's housing stock are needed, along withsteps to bring down the high cost of commodities, he said. REUTER
JAPAN ASKS TRADERS, EXPORTERS TO CUT DOLLAR SALES The Ministry of International Trade andIndustry (MITI) has asked about 30 Japanese trading houses andexporters to refrain from excessive dollar selling, tradinghouse officials said.    The officials told Reuters MITI asked them to moderatetheir foreign exchange trading because the excessive rise inthe yen will have unfavourable effects on the economy. It madethe request by telephone.    A MITI official said the ministry has conducted a survey offoreign exchange trading by trade houses and exporters. But hesaid it was not aimed at moderating dollar selling.    The trading house officials said MITI had asked them toundertake foreign exchange transactions with due considerationto the adverse effects excessive exchange rate movements wouldhave on the economy.    The MITI official said MITI undertakes such surveys whenexchange rates fluctuate widely. A similiar survey was madewhen the currency fell to the previous record low of 149.98 onJanuary 19. It hit a new record low of 148.20 yen yesterday.    He said the survey showed currency transactions by tradehouses and exporters contributed little to the dollar fall. REUTER
Sumita says further yen rise would adversely affect Japanese New Zealand's broadly defined,seasonally adjusted M-3 money supply grew an estimated 2.4 pctin January against a 3.4 pct (revised from 3.6) rise inDecember and a 0.7 pct rise in January 1986.    It said unadjusted M-3 increased to an estimated 30.13billion N.Z. Dlrs from 30.08 (revised from 30.06) billion inDecember and 25.18 billion in January 1986.    Year-on-year M-3 rose 19.66 pct in January from 17.80 pct(revised from 17.77) in December and 20.10 pct in January 1986.    Narrowly defined year-on-year M-1 growth was 21.94 pct inJanuary against 15.89 pct in December and 14.10 pct a yearearlier.    M-1 grew to an estimated 4.72 billion dlrs against 5.03billion in December and 3.87 billion in January 1986.    Year-on-year private sector credit, PSC, grew 31.07 pct inJanuary against 30.64 pct (revised from 30.68) in December and21.40 pct in January 1986. PSC grew to 22.69 billion dlrs from22.24 billion in December and 17.31 billion in January 1986. REUTER
FURTHER YEN RISE WOULD HURT JAPAN ECONOMY, SUMITA Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumitasaid a further yen rise would have adverse effects on theJapanese economy.    He told Japanese business leaders the Bank of Japan willcontinue to take adequate measures, including marketintervention, to stabilize exchange rates if necessary, inclose cooperation with other major industrialized nations. Hesaid the current instability of exchange rates will not last.    Six major nations - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, theU.S. And West Germany - agreed in Paris last month to acttogether to hold currencies stable.    Sumita said the Bank of Japan will continue to pursueadequate and flexible monetary policies while watching economicand financial developments in and outside Japan.    He said the decision to cut the discount rate on February20 was a hard choice for the Bank because monetary conditionshad already been sufficiently eased.    To prevent a resurgence of inflation, the Bank will take avery cautious stance regarding developments stemming from easycredit conditions, he said.    He said the latest discount rate cut to 2.5 pct shouldstabilize exchange rates and expand domestic demand.    Commenting on the dollar's fall below 150 yen, Sumitareiterated he cannot find any specific reason for thecurrency's weakness.    The market undertook speculative dollar selling by reactingto overseas comments by monetary authorities and trade tension,he said.    Sumita repeated that the Japanese economy may graduallyrecover in the latter half of the 1987/88 fiscal year endingApril 1, 1988, provided exchange rates stabilize. REUTER
DOLLAR/YEN INTERVENTION RESPONDS TO PRESSURE The Bank of France intervened to buysmall amounts of dollars and sell yen in Paris today tostabilise the exchange rates agreed at last month's meeting ofFinance Ministers of the Group of Five and Canada, foreignexchange dealers said.    But they said recent central bank intervention in theforeign exchange markets appeared to be a limited reaction totemporary pressures rather than a major defence operation.    A Bank of France spokesman declined all comment but sourcesclose to the central bank said it had also intervenedyesterday.    Dealers said the earlier intervention was in concert withthe Bundesbank and Bank of Japan.    The sources said the French central bank could have been inthe market again today in two-way operations, not necessarilyon its own account, but to counter short-term pressures arisingfrom the end of the Japanese financial year on March 31.    One major French bank said it bought between five and 15mln dlrs for the central bank and sold yen at 149.28 to thedollar.    Another bank said it had been asked by the Bank of Franceto say it was in the market, a departure from the centralbank's usual insistence on confidentiality.    But other banks said they had seen no sign of intervention,which they said appeared to be on a very limited scale.    "Even if 10 banks were buying five to 15 mln dlrs, you wouldstill be talking of a small overall amount," said one dealer.    Recent intervention by the Bank of Japan appeared mainly tohave been required to meet year-end window dressing demand foryen. "This is a specific short term phenomenon rather than awider trend," the dealer said.    Operators have been extremely cautious about testing thedollar's trading ranges against the West German mark andJapanese yen.    These ranges were set in February's stabilisation agreementreached here by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker and theFinance Ministers of Japan, Germany, France, Britain andCanada.    But speculative pressures started to build again this weekafter Baker was quoted on British television at the weekend asrepeating earlier statements that Washington had no target forthe dollar.    Baker yesterday moved to defuse speculation he was talkingthe dollar down, telling a Cable News Network interviewer and aSenate committee he stood by the Paris agreement. Foreignexchange markets had been misreading his comments, he said. REUTER
JAPAN SETS ASIDE YEN FUNDS TO PREVENT DLR FALL The 50-day provisional 1987/88 budget,adopted today by the government, allows the Finance Ministry toissue up to 14,600 billion yen worth of foreign exchange fundfinancing bills, government sources said.    Foreign exchange dealers said the yen funds would be usedto buy dollars, to prevent a further dollar fall.    The government sources said the amount, covering the first50 days of the year starting April 1, accounts for more than 90pct of the 16,000 billion yen in bills incorporated in the fullbudget. REUTER
Nakasone says major nations committed in Paris to stable dlr above Japanese vehicle exports fell 8.2 pct inFebruary from January to 530,066, the Japan AutomobileManufacturers Association said.    February exports fell 6.8 pct from a year earlier after a6.8 pct year-on-year rise in January, the first growth sinceJune 1986, when they rose 4.4 pct from a year earlier.    February exports included 361,285 cars, down 6.3 pct from ayear earlier, 165,770 trucks, down 8.6 pct, and 3,011 buses, up51.4 pct.    Exports to the U.S. Fell to 226,942 in February from259,272 a year earlier, while those to the European Communityrose to 141,095 from 121,050.    The EC figure included 63,387 vehicles to West Germany, upfrom 41,821, but exports to Britain fell to 20,554 from 28,536.    Shipments to South-east Asia fell to 33,957 from 41,960 andthose to the Middle East fell to 15,828 from 25,278.    Japan's motorcycle exports rose 18 pct from January to177,115 in February, but fell 25.9 pct from a year earlier, the12th consecutive year-on-year drop. REUTER
Miyazawa says major nations have intervened aggressively since dlr fell below U.S. roastings of green coffee in theweek ended March 21 were about 250,000 (60-kilo) bags,including that used for soluble production, compared with195,000 bags in the corresponding week of last year and about300,000 bags in the week ended March 14, George Gordon Patonand Co Inc reported.    It said cumulative roastings for calendar 1987 now total3,845,000 bags, compared with 4,070,000 bags by this time lastyear. Reuter
JAPAN ISOLATED, YEN RISES, WORLD FEELS CHEATED Japan is becoming dangerously isolatedagain as the U.S. And Europe feel they have been cheated byJapanese promises to switch from export to domestic-led growth,officials and businessmen from around the world said.    As the dollar today slipped to a record low below 145 yen,making Japanese exporters and holders of dollar investmentsgrit their teeth harder, Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa saidthere was a perception Japan had reneged on its promise.    The problem goes deep and centres on misunderstandings byboth sides over the key Maekawa report of April, last year.    The document was prepared by a private committee formed byPrime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone and led by former Bank ofJapan head Haruo Maekawa. It recommended that to stop frictiondue to its large trade surpluses, Japan must "make a historicaltransformation in its traditional policies on economicmanagement and the nation's lifestyle. There can be no furtherdevelopment for Japan without this transformation."    Americans and Europeans took the report to heart and havelooked in vain for clear signs of this historic change. But theJapanese remain doubtful about the short, or even medium termprospects of totally transforming their economic habits.    The bubble of frustration against what appears as Japaneseprevarication burst last week. The U.S. Said it intended toraise tariffs of as much as 300 mln dlrs on Japanese exports tothe U.S. On the grounds Japan had abrogated a bilateralsemiconductor pact.    British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher threatened toblock Japanese financial firms from London after the Japaneseplaced what the British say are restrictive conditions on a bidby British firm Cable and Wireless to join a domestictelecommunications joint venture.    On Friday, European currency dealers said European centralbanks, annoyed at restrictive Japanese trade practises, mightleave Japan alone to intervene to staunch the rise of the yen.    Eishiro Saito, head of top Japanese business groupKeidanren, spotted the dangers inherent in such contradictoryviews last November when he visited the European Community."Related to this matter of (trade) imbalance, the point that Ifound to be of great cause for alarm during this trip to Europewas the excessive degree of hope placed by the Europeans in theresults of the Maekawa report," he said.    "We explained that the process of restructuring the economyaway from its dependence on exports toward a balance betweendomestic and external demand...Would take time," Saito said.    Saito's words were ignored. In February, EC IndustrialPolicy Director Heinrich von Moltke came to Japan and said "Ionly know that your government, under the leadership ofMaekawa, points to restructuring your economy into a lessoutward looking, more inward looking one. It is the Maekawareport which has attracted the most attention in Europe."    And Europeans and Americans want quick action. "A far betteranswer than protectionism would be structural change within theJapanese economy, the kind suggested by the Maekawa report. Andwe hope to see changes occur in the near future," visitingChairman of General Motors Roger Smith said in March.    Such expectations are now ingrained, which was partly thefault of Nakasone, who heralded Maekawa's report as a sea ofchange in Japanese affairs, said U.S. Officials.    Months before the report was issued, U.S. And EC businessleaders met their Japanese colleagues to discuss the tradeproblem.    "We are more anxious than ever that the new approach of theMaekawa committee does lead to speedy and effective action,"said EC Industrial Union leader Lord Ray Pennock.    "The important implication of the Maekawa report is that itis finally looking to let Japanese enjoy the fruits of theirlabour," said Philip Caldwell, Senior Managing Director ofShearson Lehman Brothers.    Contents of the report were leaded well ahead of issuance.    Japanese officials say they are implementing the report asfast as they can, said a European ambassador who has travelledthe country asking about this issue.    He said People mentioned many things in line with thespirit of the report, including restructuring of the coal andsteel industries.    A major misunderstanding is that the private report wasgovernment policy. Europeans are confused about this,underlined by von Moltke's reference to the "leadership" of theMaekawa report. Even so, Japanese officials point to lastSeptember's government programme of new economic measures."Without endorsing the report as policy, officials point outthat the government has put its signature to a programmedesigned to implement the report," the ambassador said. REUTER
H.K. DEALERS SAY NAKASONE G-6 COMMENT TOO LATE Remarks by Japan's Prime MinisterYasuhiro Nakasone that last month's G-6 meeting agreed tostabilize the dollar above 150 yen have come too late toinfluence currency trading, dealers said.    After Nakasone's statement the dollar rose to 146.40/50 yenfrom an initial low of 144.20/40 and New York's Friday finishof 147.15/25. But the rebound was largely on short-covering,they said.    "I think (Nakasone's) desperate," said a U.S. Bank foreignexchange manager.    Nakasone told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliamentthat Japan and other industrialized nations committedthemselves in Paris last month to stabilize the dollar above150 yen.    Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told the same committeethat the six - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. AndWest Germany - had intervened aggressively since the dollarfell below 150 yen.    "His (Nakasone) remarks should have been made and shouldhave had a bigger influence when the dollar was still above 150yen," said P.S. Tam of Morgan Guaranty Trust.    Tam said the dollar has hit short-term chart targets  andis likely to rebound. But he warned of another dip to below 145yen.    Dealers said the worsening trade relations between the U.S.And Japan will continue to depress the dollar.    The trade issue has now become a political issue since theReagan Administration is facing uproar in Congress overth3pYgks in cutting the country's 169.8 billion dlr tradedeficit, they said. REUTER
INDONESIAN RUPIAH SLIPS AGAINST MARK AND YEN The Indonesian rupiah has held steadysince its 31 pct devaluation against the dollar six months ago,but has slipped against the mark and to a lesser extent againstthe yen, according to central bank figures.    In the past month, the rupiah has fallen five pct againstthe yen. Today's middle rate per 100 yen was 1,129.78 against1,075.20 at end-February and 1,058.6 at devaluation inSeptember.    Bank Indonesia's quoted rate for the dollar, the maincurrency for Indonesia's oil and gas exports, was 1,644.0today, the same rate fixed at the time of devaluation.    The rate for the West German mark was 913.28 today, a sharpdrop from September when it was 786.06.    The British pound has risen to 2,657.93 against 2,429.83.   The value of the rupiah is set daily against a basket ofcurrencies by the central bank.    The rise in the value of the mark and the yen has hitIndonesia by increasing its debt servicing levels. Its totaldisbursed foreign debt is estimated by the World Bank at 37billion dlrs.    Japan is one of Indonesia's key trading partners, takinghalf its oil exports. REUTER
G-6 WANTS TO HOLD DLR ABOVE 150 YEN - NAKASONE Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone saidthat Japan and other industrialized nations committedthemselves in Paris last month to stabilize the dollar above150 yen.    He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament thatthe six nations have taken measures, including marketintervention, to support the dollar above that level.    Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told the same committeethat the six - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. AndWest Germany - had intervened aggressively since the dollarfell below 150 yen.    Miyazawa said major nations are trying hard to stabilizeexchange rates.    Asked if there had been any change in the fundamentals ofeach nation since the February 22 Paris accord, he said he didnot think the fundamentals themselves had changedsubstantially.    But he said the market is sensitively looking at what ishappening in major nations. He did not elaborate.    Miyazawa added that it was difficult to say why there hasbeen such speculative dollar selling in the market. REUTER
MIYAZAWA EXPECTS DOLLAR REBOUND SOON - SPOKESMAN Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawaexpects the dollar to rebound soon, a Ministry spokesman said.    He quoted Miyazawa as telling Japanese reporters that majorindustrial nations are aggressively intervening in currencymarkets worldwide to prevent a dollar free-fall.    The minister believes that market forces will push thedollar back up from its record low of 144.70 yen today,according to the spokesman.    Miyazawa told the Japanese reporters the U.S. Unit fellbecause Japanese investors sold dollars to hedge currency risksbefore the close of the 1986/87 fiscal year on March 31. REUTER
SUMITA SAYS HE DOES NOT EXPECT FURTHER DOLLAR FALL Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumitasaid he does not expect the dollar to remain unstable and fallfurther.    He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament thatthe Bank of Japan would continue to cooperate closely withother major nations to stabilize exchange rates.    The central bank has been keeping extremely careful watchon exchange rate movements since last week, he said.    He said the dollar would not continue to fall because ofunderlying market concern about the rapid rise of the yen.    Sumita said the currency market has been reacting tooverseas statements and to trade tension between Japan and theU.S. over semiconductors.    The yen's tendency to rise will prevent Japan fromexpanding domestic demand and undertaking necessary economicrestructuring, he said. Reuter
DLR FALLS ON FEARS, MIYAZAWA SAYS Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa saidthat the dollar's drop today to 145 yen is partly attributableto the perception inside and outside Japan that the country hasfailed to fulfill its promise to expand domestic demand.    He told a Lower House budget committee in Parliament thatit was natural for other nations to think that Japan is notdoing enough because of the delay in the passage of the 1987/88budget.    The budget has been delayed by opposition boycotts ofParliament to protest government plans for a new sales tax. Reuter
JAPAN SET TO RIDE OUT YEN RISE, OFFICIALS SAY The government is determined to ride outthe latest sharp rise of the yen without taking panic measuresbecause it expects the currency's appreciation to provetemporary, senior officials said.    "The market has already located a ceiling (for the yen) andmarket forces are pushing the dollar back up a bit," one seniorFinance Ministry official said.    He attributed the dollar's fall in recent days to specialfactors, in particular, selling by Japanese investors ahead ofthe March 31 end to their fiscal year.    That selling largely came to an end this morning afterabout one hour of trading here, the senior official said. "They(the investors) became more or less quiet after 10 o'clock(0100 GMT)," he said.    After falling to a record low of 144.70 yen this morning,the dollar edged back up in late trading to end at 146.20.Dealers attributed the late rise to remarks by Prime MinisterYasuhiro Nakasone that major nations had agreed to stabilisethe dollar above 150 yen.    Several officials said they did not see any fundamentalreason for the dollar's recent sharp fall.    One official even called the market's recent actionsirrational. If anything, the U.S. Decision to slap tariffs onJapanese electronics goods should support the dollar againstthe yen because it will cut Japanese exports to the U.S., Hesaid.    As a result, several officials said they saw no reason toalter the broad thrust of government policy agreed to at lastmonth's meeting of major nations in Paris.    "We don't see any substantial reason to change our policystance," one senior official said.
BANK OF JAPAN MULLS OTHER OPTIONS TO STOP YEN RISE Today's liberalised financial markets aremaking it extremely difficult for Japan's monetary authoritiesto prevent the yen's rise against the dollar, but they haveseveral options other than normal intervention, Bank of Japansources said.    A senior central bank official said that such methods ascontrolling foreign exchange deals and invoking currency swapagreements with other central banks, which have not beeninvoked since 1978, are all being considered.    "But the time may not be ripe," he said.    "In this era of financial liberalisation, it's almostimpossible to control the flow of capital in and out of Japan,"said another senior bank official.    But the first official said: "From a technical viewpoint,the Bank of Japan could activate swap agreements immediatelyafter other central banks involved agreed to do so."    A swap agreement, an exchange of currency between twonations, allows both sides to acquire a ready source of theother's currency in case of need.    "If the Bank invokes such swaps, both parties would announcethe decision jointly," said the first official.    The sources said they believed the limit of currency marketintervention may be being reached after they saw recentconcerted market action by central banks of major industrialnations was increasingly ineffective in propping up thebattered dollar.    But intervention is at least an option, they said. Furthereasing of monetary policy will be very difficult with anofficial discount rate already at a record low of 2.5 pct, theysaid.    Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita has repeatedly ruledout another rate cut due to fears it could revive inflation.    One bank official said he could not deny the possibilty ofthe Bank of Japan activating currency swap agreements with theU.S. And other central banks, if these banks continueintervening to sell the yen in support of the dollar and runout of their yen cash positions.    "But we don't think they have become short of yen quite yet,"he said.    The bank has established a five billion dlr swap limit withthe U.S. Federal Reserve and another 2.5 billion mark and 200billion yen limit with the West German and Swiss central banks,according to the sources.    Foreign exchange dealers estimate the Fed had sold twobillion dlrs worth of yen from its own account to support thedollar in New York last week.    The central bank sources also said Japan may arrange othercurrency swap agreements with Britain and France if they findit necessary, but added they are not actually talking with eachother towards that end. REUTER
U.S. MAY DROP TARIFFS IF JAPAN OPENS - YEUTTER The U.S. Is willing to drop tariffs onJapanese electronic imports if Japan shows it will abide by anagreemement opening its markets to American goods, U.S. TradeRepresentative Clayton Yeutter said in a TV interview.    "But there has to be a clear indication that they arewilling to act," he said.    Yeutter said difficulties in the Japanese economy caused bythe U.S. Tariffs and the yen's rise against the dollar areproblems "they have brought on themselves."    The dollar fell to 40-year lows against the yen today.    "Certainly the movement of the yen is causing some economicturmoil in Japan," he said. "My only response is that we havegone through about five years with the dollar going in just theopposite direction. Although I can sympathise, it's occurredfor only a few weeks or months in Japan."    The tarriffs, announced on Friday by President Reagan, willaffect about 300 million dlrs worth of products, only a tinyfraction of Japan's total exports to the U.S.    Even so, Reagan's decision "doesn't give us any joy. Wedon't want to take retaliatory action here if we don't have to,"Yeutter said.    Yeutter said the meetings scheduled next month inWashington between Reagan and Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasonewill include "some difficult items on the agenda."    Japan has failed to implement two parts of a three-partsemiconductor agreement, Yeutter said.    Japan has stopped dumping chips in the U.S. But it hasfailed to open its domestic markets to U.S.-made chips and hasfailed to end predatory pricing in Third World countries,undercutting U.S. Products, he said. REUTER
Bank of Japan buys dollars around 146.30 yen, dea Australian annual broad money growth rose10.3 pct in February, unchanged from January, but down from thecorresponding February growth rate of 13.9 pct, the ReserveBank said.    February broad money growth was steady at 0.7 pct from theprevious month and unchanged from February last year.    Borrowings from the private sector by non-bank financialintermediaries rose by 8.8 pct in the February year fromJanuary's 9.5 pct rise, compared with a 13.6 pct increase inthe previous February year.    In February, borrowings from the private sector by non-bankfinancial intermediaries rose by 1.0 pct compared withJanuary's 0.2 pct increase and the previous February rise of1.7 pct.    At the end of February, broad money stood at 177.1 billiondlrs up from January's 175.84 billion and compared with theprevious February level of 160.60 billion.    The Reserve Bank last week reported a February M3 growthrate of 11.2 pct from January's 10.7 pct rise and a previousannual February increase of 14.0 pct. REUTER
Bank of Japan intervenes buying dollars at around 147.30 yen - Commerzbank AG <CBKG.F> managementboard chairman Walter Seipp said that from the presentviewpoint the bank must expect 1987 full operating profit to belower than in 1986.    In the first two months of the year, partial operatingprofit -- excluding trading on the bank's own account -declined, he said, without giving details.    The interest surplus fell 2.8 pct compared with 2/12ths of1986 results, while the commission surplus, because of thequiet stock exchange business, fell back still more strongly.By contrast the personnel and fixed asset expenses increased.    German banks do not report full operating profit. But Seippsaid last year the figure for the first time had topped onebillion marks for the parent bank, and the group result wasaround 50 pct higher than this.    Commenting on 1986, Seipp said, "we were able to raise thefull operating profit...Slightly above the record result of1985 because own account profits increased slightly."    He gave no concrete details but added that in January andFebruary, good own account trading profits meant that the dropin full operating earnings was more modest than that in thepartial operating figure.    The bank would, as a result, be more profit-oriented infuture, developing, for example, more into investment banking,keeping a tight rein on personnel costs and dampeningexpenditures on fixed assets.    Turning to 1986 results, Seipp said by year end there hadbeen a strong growth in business volume.    Over the year business volume rose by 9.9 pct to 93.2billion marks compared with 1985, Seipp added.    Group balance sheet volume rose by 8.0 pct to 148.15billion. It would have been around five billion marks higherstill if currency relationships had remained unchanged.    In the parent bank, the interest surplus rose nine pct inthe year, while the interest margin held roughly at 1985's 2.56pct despite pressure on credit rates.    The surplus on commission business, which had soared by aquarter in 1985, rose by 11.6 pct last year thanks almostexclusively to growth in securities commissions, Seipp said.    Personnel expenditure was up 11.9 pct last year, at morethan 1.5 billion marks. Fixed asset expenditure rose by 9.6 pctto more than 650 mln.    As a result, the parent bank partial operating profit roseby 3.2 pct to 752 mln marks.    Parent bank tax payment rose to 244 mln marks last yearfrom 233 mln in 1985.    Seipp said extraordinary earnings included a "hightwo-figure million" in profit from the sale of the bank's AEG AG<AEGG.F> shares to Daimler-Benz AG <DAIG.F> during the latter'smajority stake purchase booked last year.    The ability of the bank to write off depreciations incredit business against profits from securities trading andearnings on the sale of stakes had been utilised, as in prioryears, to its full extent.    Because of numerous insolvencies at home, by far thelargest part of the provisions were set aside for individualwrite-downs from domestic business. Abroad, the circle ofproblem debtor countries rose last year, although the ratio ofcredit exposure to provisions improved further.    Seipp said that because about half the group's exposure toproblem nations was in dollars, the bank had swapped intodollars individual provisions hitherto held primarily in marks.    "This means that no open currency positions exist any longeron the amount of the provision that is made against an actualdefault," he added.    Despite the increase in concern over debtor nations in thelast few weeks, he said, the international banking community isbetter armed than it was against payment problems.    All banks had significantly strengthened their capitalbase, most European banks had made considerable provisionsagainst bad debts while goverments and central banks werebetter prepared for unforseen difficulties.    He described debt-equity swaps as a very interesting newapproach to indebted nations' problems. There was a lot ofinterest in direct investment via an equity participation inLatin America, particularly from West German firms. Reuter
CHIRAC SAYS FRANCE RESOLVED TO SUPPORT CURRENCY PACT French Prime Minister Jacques Chiracsaid that on financial issues, the United States and France had"very close" views, and he said Treasury Secretary James Bakerwas determined to support the February 22 Paris agreement onstabilizing foreign exchange parities.    "I was very reassured by the determination of Mr. Baker tosupport this agreement," he said.    He described the dollar's sharp fall against the yen at thestart of the week as a "passing incident" and added, "Everyone isresolved to support the Paris accord."    Questioned about his plan to help the world's poorestcountries, Chirac said he did not envisage any large-scale debtwrite-offs.    "I don't think we can talk of write-offs - even the poorestcountries have not asked for that," he said.    Chirac said he wanted commercial banks to give third worldcountries better terms in rescheduling their debts, and for theInternational Monetary Fund to soften its conditions.    "One cannot pity the banks - they bear a lot ofresponsibility due to the encouragement they gave to thesecountries to take on debts. Now the banks are complaining but Ido not weep for them." Reuter
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES JUST AFTER TOKYO OPENING The Bank of Japan intervened just afterthe Tokyo market opened, buying dollars at around 147.65 yen,dealers said.    They were unsure of the amount of the central bank'spurchasing, but it seemed to prevent the dollar from weakeningagainst the yen amid bearish sentiment for the U.S. Currency,they said.    The dollar opened at 147.65 yen against 147.20/30 in NewYork and 146.90 at the close here yesterday. REUTER
JAPAN CENTRAL BANK INTERVENES IN TOKYO AFTERNOON The Bank of Japan intervened in earlyafternoon Tokyo trading to support the dollar against activeselling by institutional investors and speculative selling byoverseas operators, dealers said.    The central bank had also bought dollars against the yen inmorning trade.    The dollar traded around 145.20/30 yen when trading beganin the afternoon here and weakened only slightly, the dealerssaid. REUTER
CURRENCY FUTURES TO KEY OFF G-5, G-7 MEETINGS News of an agreement among G-5 and G-7finance ministers meeting in Washington this week will be keyto the direction of currency futures at the InternationalMonetary Market, but any such agreement will need to go beyondthe Paris accord to stem the recent rise in futures, financialanalysts said.    "If they (the finance ministers) give the market somethingreally new to look at -- that is, some package that goes beyondthe Paris agreement -- you could have a real boost in thedollar," said Shearson Lehman Brothers analyst Anne Mills.    On the other hand, "anything neutral would tend to bebearish for the dollar," Mills said.    Traders and analysts agree a simple reaffirmation of theParis accord will not be enough to halt the decline in thedollar, nor will central bank intervention.    "A lot of people are looking for a reason to buy currenciesand sell the dollar," said one trader for a large retail firmon the floor of the IMM.    "If there is no concrete resolution, they will be lookingto sell the dollar, possibly down to the 1.80 mark level," hesaid.    Technically, most currency futures are poised for anotherrise, said Smith Barney Harris Upham analyst Craig Sloane.    Sloane noted that June yen futures set a new contract highon Tuesday and closed at its best level ever, while Junesterling set a new contract high on Monday.    "Everything seems to be coming to a head right now and youdon't need much to get things rolling," Sloane said.    In particular, the June Canadian dollar, for which Sloanerecently put out a buy recommendation, has hovered in a rangebetween 0.7600 and 0.7660 in recent weeks, forming a triangleon the charts from which it may soon break out on the upside.    A close above the contract high of 0.7665 would signal abreakout, Sloane said, and would likely mean the nearbyCanadian dollar contract would extend its advance to near the0.7800 level. June Canadian dollar closed at 0.7656 Tuesday.    Mills noted, however, that interest rate differentialsbetween Canadian securities and U.S. securities have narroweddramatically recently, with yields on 10-year Canadian bondsonly about 80 basis points above U.S. 10-year notes.    What has helped the Canadian currency, she noted, is anincreasing proportion of foreign funds flowing into theCanadian equity market, particularly from Japanese investors.    Other analysts, however, said currency futures may be nearthe top of their long-term rally.    "Something will be done at the (G-5 and G-7) meeting tocalm people," said David Horner of Merrill Lynch Economics.    The Paris accord has pretty much fixed where major Europeancurrencies will trade, Horner said.    But sterling futures may still make another run for newhighs, up to 1.6300 to 1.6500 dlr in the June contract, on thepositive atmosphere that will prevail before British electionsand possibly another interest rate cut, Horner said. The JuneBritish pound closed at 1.6080 on Tuesday.    Horner said that new boundaries for the trading range ofthe yen are likely to come out of the G-5 and G-7 meetings.    The most likely range will be a bottom for the dollarbetween 140 to 142 yen per dollar and a top near 150 to 152yen, Horner said. In yen futures, the bottom of the dollar'srange would be equivalent to 0.007100 to 0.007150 in the Junecontract. June yen closed at 0.006913 on Tuesday.    If such a range does emerge from the meetings, "we willhave one more rally in the yen," Horner said. Reuter
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES SOON AFTER TOKYO OPENING The Bank of Japan bought a small amount ofdollars shortly after the opening at around 145.30 yen, dealerssaid.    The central bank intervened as a medium-sized trading housesold dollars, putting pressure on the U.S. Currency, they said.    The dollar was also supported by a major electricalconsumer goods company, which was a speculative dollar buyer ataround 145.25 yen, they added.    The dollar opened at 145.33 yen against 145.60/70 in NewYork and 145.25 at the close here yesterday. REUTER
JAPAN BUSINESS LEADERS SAY G-7 ACCORD IS WORRYING The leaders of two of Japan's top businessgroups said in separate statements the Group of Seven (G-7)accord reached in Washington yesterday is of deep concern toJapan because it shows the major industrial nations regard theyen's current level as appropriate.    Eishiro Saito, chairman of the Federation of EconomicOrganizations (Keidanren), said the yen's present rate is wellabove adequate levels. He did not elaborate.    Takashi Ishihara, chairman of the Japan Committee forEconomic Development, said the accord will not prevent the yenfrom rising further.    "We do not understand why the G-7 approved present rates asthe yen has risen excessively since the Paris accord," Ishiharasaid.    G-7 members Britain, Canada, France, Italy, Japan, the U.S.And West Germany said in a statement they consider theircurrencies are now within ranges broadly consistent witheconomic fundamentals.    Saito called on each G-7 member nation to prepare tointervene in the market strongly enough to ensure exchangerates are stabilised at appropriate levels. REUTER
MIYAZAWA SAYS YEN STILL INSIDE PARIS RANGE Japanese Finance Minister KiichiMiyazawa said the strengthening of the yen against the dollarthat has occurred since the Paris Agreement was within therange agreed on in the Louvre discussions.    "I would say that what has happened (to the yen) in the pastseveral weeks was not outside the range we agreed to in thediscussions in Paris," Miyazawa told a press conferencefollowing the Group of Seven meeting here.    He added that the current discussions were a "reaffirmation"of that agreement, indicating that the "solidarity" that occurredin Paris was still in place. reuter
YEN SEEN RISING AFTER G-7 COMMUNIQUE The yen is likely to start anotheruneven rise against the dollar and other major currenciesbecause the Group of Seven communique contained nothing new,currency and bond analysts here said.    "Is that it? I was expecting something more than that," saidone trader at a major Wall Street securities company.    Marc Cohen of Republic National Bank of New York said: "Themarket now has the impetus to drive the dollar lower again."    The dollar hovered between 145.50 and 147 yen in the daysjust before the talks. Dealers restrained their underlyingbearishness and squared positions ahead of Wednesday's meetingof the finance ministers and central bankers of the top sevenindustrialized nations in Washington.    After more than four hours of talks, the G-7 issued acommunique which merely reaffirmed the recent Paris agreement'sview that prevailing currency levels were broadly consistentwith economic fundamentals and that exchange rate stabilityshould be fostered around these levels.    The dollar sank to 144.75 yen in early Tokyo trading.    "They said that the dollar/yen rate was broadly in line withfundamentals when it was 154. Now they are saying it's in linewhen it's at 146. Will this still be so at 138 or 130?," askedRepublic's Cohen.    Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa fuelledspeculation about the amount of fluctuation the authorities areprepared to tolerate by saying that the current yen level isstill inside the range agreed on in Paris in late February.    Official statements in recent weeks had indicated that thekey psychological level of 150 yen was at the lower end of theauthorities' permissible range.    Dealers and analysts warned that the dollar's decline wouldprobably be uneven. They anticipated a concerted effort to propup the dollar and restrain the yen via a mixture of open marketintervention and public comments.    Shortly after the Tokyo market opened today the Bank ofJapan was detected by local dealers buying moderate amounts ofdollars. The dollar rebounded to about 145.20 yen.    The sources said the market may also be wary of agressivelyselling dollars for yen before Tuesday's February U.S. Tradedata. The figures are expected to show a deficit of 13 billiondlrs, from a provisional 14.8 billion in January.
JAPAN BUSINESS LEADERS SAY G-7 ACCORD IS WORRYING The leaders of two of Japan's top businessgroups said in separate statements the Group of Seven (G-7)accord reached in Washington yesterday is of deep concern toJapan because it shows the major industrial nations regard theyen's current level as appropriate.    Eishiro Saito, chairman of the Federation of EconomicOrganizations (Keidanren), said the yen's present rate is wellabove adequate levels. He did not elaborate.    Takashi Ishihara, chairman of the Japan Committee forEconomic Development, said the accord will not prevent the yenfrom rising further.    "We do not understand why the G-7 approved present rates asthe yen has risen excessively since the Paris accord," Ishiharasaid.    G-7 members Britain, Canada, France, Italy, Japan, the U.S.And West Germany said in a statement they consider theircurrencies are now within ranges broadly consistent witheconomic fundamentals.    Saito called on each G-7 member nation to prepare tointervene in the market strongly enough to ensure exchangerates are stabilised at appropriate levels. REUTER
MIYAZAWA SAYS YEN STILL INSIDE PARIS RANGE Japanese Finance Minister KiichiMiyazawa said the strengthening of the yen against the dollarsince the Paris Agreement was within the range agreed in theLouvre discussions.    "I would say that what has happened (to the yen) in the pastseveral weeks was not outside the range we agreed to in thediscussions in Paris," Miyazawa told a press conferencefollowing the Group of Seven meeting here.    He said the current discussions were a "reaffirmation" ofthat agreement, saying the "solidarity" that occurred in Pariswas still in place. Reuter
U.S. SAID TO VIEW G-7 MEETING AS MAJOR SUCCESS The United States, which has longsought Japanese action to stimulate its economy, appears to besatisfied Tokyo's latest package is a major development andallows leading industrial nations to reaffirm their agreementto stabilize currencies.    Monetary sources said they believed that U.S. TreasurySecretary James Baker considered Tokyo's package, announcedyesterday, to be a major stimulation of the Japanese economy.    But yesterday's statement by seven leading industrialpowers endorses the yen's rise from around 153 to the dollar,the level at the February 22 Paris Accord, to about 145 today.    And the initial reaction of currency markets in the FarEast demonstrates that financial markets are unconvinced thatcurrencies yet reflect economic fundamentals, even though thecountries appear to do so. The yen sank below 145 at one pointdespite intervention by the Bank of Japan.    Kiichi Miyazawa, Japan's Finance Minister, said themovement since Paris was consistent with currency tradingranges the nations agreed to defend in the February talks.    "I would say that what has happened (to the yen) in the pastseveral weeks was not outside the range we agreed to in thediscussions in Paris," Miyazawa said yesterday.    The supplementary budget worth about 34.48 billion dlrs wasannounced by the ruling Liberal Democratic Party on the eve ofMiyazawa's departure for Washington, to attend yesterday'smeetings of leading industrial nations.    In a strongly worded statement terming the Japanese action"extraordinary and urgent", the meeting reaffirmed the ParisAccord by noting that current exchange rates are within rangesbroadly consistent with fundamentals, or economic reality.    The Group of Seven -- the United States, Japan, WestGermany, France, Britain, Italy and Canada -- thereforerepeated their willingness to continue close cooperation tofoster exchange rate stability.    The cooperation agreement has resulted in concerted centralbank intervention of 8 billion to 9 billion dlrs to halt thedollar's fall. While relatively unsuccessful, the scale ofintervention between so many nations is unprecedented in recentyears. Monetary sources also said they understood thatSecretary Baker considered the meeting to be extremelysuccessful in the light of the Japanese announcement.    They also said there was a growing feeling among thefinance ministers and central bankers that cooperation overmedium-term policies has replaced the bickering over short-termdifferences in past meetings.    West Germany, whose currency has not risen anything likethe yen since the Paris Agreement, appears from the face ofyesterday's statement to have won acceptance from othercountries that its exchange rate is acceptable.    Bonn's finance minister Gerhard Stoltenberg argues thatmajor currency shifts needed to remedy the huge imbalancebetween West Germany and Japan's trade surpluses and America'strade deficit have already taken place.    No mention was made, however, of the U.S. commitment to cutthe budget deficit even though it is implied in thereafffirmation of Paris.    European nations and Japan believe deficit cuts areessential to curbing the record U.S. trade shortfall thatreached nearly 170 billion dlrs last year.    A similar argument was made on Capitol Hill earlier thisweek by Federal Reserve Board chairman Paul Volcker. A furthersharp fall to redress trade imbalances would "clearly posesubstantial risks of renewed inflationary momentum and couldundermine confidence in future financial stability," he said.    Volcker warned a further dollar fall might force thepolitically independent Fed to drive up interest rates.    Monetary sources said that, privately, West Germanywelcomed the rise in the yen against the dollar while its owncurrency remained relatively stable against the U.S. unit.    Bonn and other European nations worry that once the weakdollar blunts Tokyo's export drive to the United States, theJapanese monolith will concentrate on European markets.    The ministers, meanwhile, also continued talks on makingtheir policy coordination more binding and one, CanadianFinance Minister Michael Wilson, said good progress was made.    Wilson said they will meet before the June Economic Summitto prepare a report for the leaders of the seven nations.    The United States and France, backed by the InternationalMonetary Fund, want the seven to agree on ranges or "norms" for alimited number of economic objectives such as growth,inflation, monetary conditions, trade balances and currentaccount balances.    Sharp deviations from these guidelines would result inconsultations between the countries on whether correctiveaction should be required.    But the inclusion of currencies as one of the objectiveshas Bonn and London worried, monetary sources say, because itimplies Washington is moving in the direction of target zones.    The sources said the Reagan administration unsuccessfullysounded out its allies on a system of target zones to limitcurrency fluctuations just before the February meeting.    The concept is a much more rigid one than the secret rangesof the Paris Accord and would mark a sharp departure from therelatively free currency markets of recent years. Reuter
SWISS NATIONAL BANK SELLS YEN AGAINST DOLLAR The Swiss National Bank sold yen againstdollars, joining in concerted intervention by central banks, aspokesman for the National Bank said.    He declined to say which central banks had been active inthe market, but earlier today Tokyo dealers said the Bank ofJapan had intervened at 142.10 yen to the dollar, and marketsources here said they believed the Bundesbank was in themarket as well.    The National Bank spokesman declined to specify the volumeof its dollar purchases or the rate paid. REUTER
BUNDESBANK INTERVENES TO BUY DOLLARS AGAINST YEN The Bundesbank intervened in the openmarket to buy dollars against yen, dealers said.    They were responding to enquiries immediately after newsthe Swiss National Bank said it joined concerted interventionto sell yen for dollars.    The Bundesbank had no immediate comment on the reports.    But dealers said the German central bank came into themarket just after 1300 GMT when the dollar was trading around141.90 yen to buy small amounts of the U.S. Currency. Dollartrading had been very quiet for most of the European session. REUTER
BUNDESBANK BOUGHT DOLLARS FOR YEN IN OPEN MARKET The Bundesbank intervened in the openmarket to buy dollars for yen ahead of the Frankfurt fixing,dealers said.    They said the Bundesbank bought dollars for around 139.80yen in small amounts in the half-hour running up to the 1100GMT fix.    The Bundesbank did not intervene when the dollar was fixedin Frankfurt at 1.7969 marks.    Earlier the Bank of Japan bought dollars steadily in theFar East, but could not stop heavy selling which pushed thedollar to a post-war low of 139.05 yen at one point. REUTER
NO SWISS NATIONAL BANK INTERVENTION SEEN A Swiss National Bank spokesman said thebank had not intervened in currency markets today and dealerssaid they had seen no evidence of Bundesbank action outsideWest Germany.    Frankfurt dealers reported that the Bundesbank boughtdollars for yen in the open market there.    Zurich dealers said the absence of the Swiss National Banksuggested that no concerted intervention was under way.    Asked earlier today if the Swiss National Bank hadintervened, the spokesman said "not yet." REUTER
JAPAN AGENCY URGES WATCH ON YEN RISE EFFECTS Japan should look out for possibleeffects of the yen's recent sharp rise on Japan's economy asgrowth remains slow, the government's Economic Planning Agencysaid in a monthly report submitted to cabinet ministers.    EPA officials told reporters the underlying trend of theeconomy is firm but growth is slow due to sluggish exports.    Customs-cleared exports by volume fell 4.9 pctmonth-on-month in February after a 2.8 pct fall in March.    The government must take adequate economic measures toexpand domestic demand and stabilise exchange rates in a bid toensure sustained econonic growth, the report said.    The report made a special reference to the yen's renewedrise and its effect on the economy, the officials said, addingthe agency's judgement of current economic conditions has notchanged since last month.    The EPA said last month Japan's economy is beginning toshow signs of bottoming out, conditional upon exchange rates.    The dollar fell below 139 yen in early trading today - apost-war low. REUTER
DEALERS SEE MODERATE DUTCH CENTRAL BANK YEN SALES The Dutch central bank has intervenedin the currency markets today, in apparent concerted actionwith other central banks, foreign exchange dealers said.    They detected selling of the yen for dollars, which someestimated would run to a moderate 200 mln guilders, comparableto token Dutch intervention reported last week.    Other dealers, however, said they believed today's moderateintervention had been in guilders against dollar.    The dealers agreed the intervention was minimal and more apolitical gesture than a market moving force. REUTER
DEALERS SEE MODERATE DUTCH CENTRAL BANK YEN SALES The Dutch central bank has intervenedin the currency markets today, in apparent concerted actionwith other central banks, foreign exchange dealers said.    They detected selling of the yen for dollars, which someestimated would run to a moderate 200 mln guilders, comparableto token Dutch intervention reported last week.    Other dealers, however, said they believed today's moderateintervention had been in guilders against dollar.    The dealers agreed the intervention was minimal and more apolitical gesture than a market moving force. REUTER
SWISS SAY THEY INTERVENED WITH BUNDESBANK AND FED The Swiss National Bank bought dollarsand sold yen in concerted action along with the Bundesbank andthe U.S. Federal Reserve Board, a bank spokesman told Reuters.    "We intervened in dollar-yen with the Bundesbank and theFed," he said. He declined to specify the extent of theintervention, which took place at around 1200 GMT, afterreports by Frankfurt dealers the Bundesbank was in the market.    The intervention failed to prevent the dollar dipping to1.4548 Swiss francs at around 1320 GMT, close to its all-timelow of 1.4510 francs set on September 26, 1978. It thensteadied to 1.4560/75 francs. REUTER
TREASURY'S BAKER - G-7 OPPOSE FURTHER DLR DROP Treasury Secretary James Baker saidthe Group of Seven countries, in seeking to foster stability inexchange markets, believe a further decline in the value of thedollar would be counterproductive.     In answer to questions by a business group, Baker saidthat for one thing further reductions could make iteconomically difficult for the surplus countries to grow,thereby making it difficult for them to purchase overseasgoods. In addition, Baker said he was opposed to the U.S.selling a yen denominated bond arguing that such a move mightsend the wrong signal to markets. Reuter
SUMITA SAYS FURTHER YEN RISE UNLIKELY - JIJI PRESS Japan's Jiji Press quoted Bank of JapanGovernor Satoshi Sumita as telling Japanese reporters thecentral bank will continue determined market intervention toprevent a further rise in the value of the yen.    Sumita, who is attending an annual meeting of the AsianDevelopment Bank, also said he does not think the yen willcontinue to rise, Jiji reported. He said the Bank of Japan iskeeping close contact with other major industrial nations onconcerted market intervention, Jiji said. He said coordinatedintervention is the only way to stop the dollar from droppingtoo fast, Jiji said. The dollar fell below 138 yen today. REUTER
Bank of Japan intervened buying small amount of dollars at 142.85 yen - Daiwa Singapore Ltd, wholly-owned byDaiwa Securities Co Ltd of Japan, yesterday launched a 100 mlnU.S. Dlr tranche of an equity warrant eurobond in Singapore forJapan's Minebea Co Ltd <MIAT.T>.    The five-year eurobond carries an indicative coupon rate ofone and 5/8 pct and will be managed from Singapore. Thewarrants may be exercised for shares in Minebea from July 1,1987 to June 10, 1992.    The bond was part of a 200 mln U.S. Dlr equity warrantEurobond issued by Minebea. Nomura International Ltd launchedthe other 100 mln dlr bond in London. REUTER
NAKASONE SAYS DOLLAR FALL ONLY TEMPORARY Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone said thedollar's sharp fall against the yen overnight was onlytemporary.    The dollar dropped sharply in New York after news that PaulVolcker would step down as chairman of the U.S. FederalReserve.    Nakasone told reporters he did not expect U.S. Policy tochange after Volcker steps down. REUTER
JAPAN PANEL URGES WORLD ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENTS Japan could avoid a sharp rise in thevalue of the yen against the dollar if Japan, the U.S. Andother nations succeeded in restructuring their economies, anadvisory panel to the government's Economic Planning Agency(EPA) said.    The advisory body said in its report that the yen wouldsoar against the dollar if structural adjustments on a globalbasis were delayed.    An EPA official told Reuters the dollar could fall toslightly below 100 yen by 1993 if Japan and the U.S. Failed torestructure their economies.    The dollar's fall without structural adjustments would cutJapan's current account surplus to two pct of gross nationalproduct (GNP) in 1993, the report said. It said such a changewould slow real GNP growth to an average of two pct annuallyduring the seven-year period to 1993.    If the two nations restructured their economies, the dollarwould remain stable in real terms, while reducing Japan'scurrent-account surplus to 2.1 pct of GNP in 1993. Thisscenario put Japan's GNP growth at 3.5 pct a year.    It forecast real growth of three pct for the world economyand four pct for Japan by 2,000 if the adjustments were made. REUTER
Dollar opens sharply higher in Tokyo at 143.55 yen (Monday close Chase Manhattan Corp (CMB)president Thomas Labrecque said the sharp decline in the stockmarket was not justified by economic conditions and there was aneed for perspective by investors on fundamental economicconditions.    "If we are right about the fundamentals, this thing shouldsettle down," Labrecque said at a news conference at theAmerican Bankers Associatioon annual convention here.    Labrecque also said the stock market drop could cause U.S.monetary officials to ease credit policies.    Inflation fears are exaggerated and Chase still believesinflation will not rise much beyond five percent this year,Labrecque said.   He said strong economic conditions would permit growth tocontinue well into 1988.    "I don't think the stock market will cause a recession,"Labrecque said.    He said he could not estimate what the impact on Chase fromthe stock market fall would be. Chase's stock price, however,dropped 23 pct, but other money center banks suffered evensharper losses.    Referring to the banking industry, he said: "We're talkingabout one day."    "These are strong institutions," he said. Labrecque said hedid not think the Federal Reserve Board would tighten monetarypolicy in view of the stock market's behavior.    "If there is a bias I expect it would be a little bit theother way," he said. Labrecque said the high U.S. budget deficitwas not the single most important factor behind the market'sworries.    He called for closer cooperation in economic policy by theUnited States, West Germany, Japan and Britain. Reuter
LOUVRE ACCORD STILL IN EFFECT, JAPAN OFFICIAL SAYS The Group of Seven (G-7) industrial nationsstill comply with last February's Louvre accord to stabilizecurrencies, a senior Bank of Japan official said.    And U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker's remarks at theweekend indicating the need to revise it do not herald a lowerrange for the dollar, other senior officials from the Bank ofJapan and Finance Ministry agreed in interviews.    "The exchange market is apparently reacting too much, andanyone who sold the dollar on the Baker comment will regret itlater on," the Bank of Japan official told Reuters.    The Bank official said Baker did not mean to talk thedollar down. A lower dollar would harm the U.S. Economy, henoted.    A Finance Ministry official who was directly involved inmonetary talks with other nations also said the U.S. Wouldnever attempt to lower the reference range for the dollaragainst the mark or the yen.    The market assumes the dollar reference range to be between140-150 yen and between 1.70 and 1.90 marks.    The dollar closed in Tokyo today at 1.7730/35 marks and141.35 yen.    "Behind Baker's remark was U.S. Frustration over higherinterest rates abroad, especially in West Germany, but thisdoes not represent its readiness to scrap the basic frameworkof the Louvre accord," the Finance Ministry official said.    He said that on the contrary Baker wanted to avoid anyfurther rise in U.S. Interest rates because it would not onlyhurt the U.S. Economy but aggravate the Third World debtproblem.    Higher U.S. Interest rates would merely raise theirinterest payment burden and depress U.S. Stock and bond marketsfurther, the monetary officials said.    Both the ministry and central bank officials, who declinedto be named, noted the U.S. No longer wants to see a furtherdecline of the dollar because that could also fan inflationaryexpectations in the U.S.    "That's why Baker did not fail to add that the Louvreagreement is still operative," the senior ministry officialsaid.    Baker said in a U.S. Television interview on Sunday thatWashington would reexamine the Louvre accord because of WestGermany's increase in short-term interest rates.    The market at first interpreted this as indicating the U.S.Would be ready to scrap the Louvre accord and let the dollardecline further unless surplus countries, notably West Germany,try harder to stimulate their economies as pledged in theaccord, foreign exchange dealers said.    But the market on reflection also noted Baker's additionalstatement that "the Louvre agreement is still operative," andthis caused some dollar short-covering in Tokyo today, thedealers said.    Uncertainty, however, remained the flavour of the day inTokyo currency markets.    The Japanese monetary officials said Baker's undisguisedpressure on West Germany to refrain from guiding interest rateshigher may be part of a process of multilateral surveillance,or international economic policy coordination.    The G-7, comprising the U.S., Japan, West Germany, Britain,France, Italy and Canada, have agreed to monitor each other'seconomic policies and from time to time apply "peer pressure" topersuade others to change their policies to a desired course,they noted. "Without such a basic agreement of multilateralsurveillance, Baker would never have criticized the West Germanpolicy so openly," the ministry official said.    The U.S.-West German squabble over Bonn's monetary policyshould thus be regarded as a process of healthy policycoordination and not as any indication of a possible collapseof the Louvre agreement, the official said.    He also said Japan has not received any specific requestfrom the U.S. On its monetary policy, although its short-termmoney rates have been edging higher.    "This is because we, unlike the Germans, are not takingpolicy to guide interest rates higher, and the marginal raterise in recent days is primarily for seasonal reasons," headded. REUTER
TOKYO DEALERS SEE DOLLAR POISED TO BREACH 140 YEN Tokyo's foreign exchange market is watchingnervously to see if the U.S. Dollar will drop below thesignificant 140.00 yen level, dealers said.    "The 140 yen level is key for the dollar because it isconsidered to be the lower end of the reference range. If thecurrency breaks through this level, it may decline sharply,"said Hirozumi Tanaka, assistant general manager at Dai-ichiKangyo Bank Ltd's international treasury division.    The dollar was at 141.10 yen at midday against Fridaycloses of 142.35/45 in New York and 141.35 here.    The dollar opened at 140.95 yen and fell to a low of140.40. It was 1.7733/38 marks against 1.7975/85 in New Yorkand 1.8008/13 here on Friday, after an opening 1.7700/10.    The currency's decline was due to remarks on Sunday by U.S.Treasury Secretary James Baker, dealers said.    "The dollar fell over the weekend on increased bearishsentiment after Baker's comments," said Dai-ichi's Tanaka. Hesaid this stemmed from mounting concern that cooperation amongthe group of seven (G-7) industrial nations to implement theLouvre accord to stabilise currencies might be fraying.    The dollar's fall was also prompted by a record one-daydrop in the Dow Jones industrial average on Friday and weaknessin U.S. Bond prices, dealers said.    Baker said the Louvre accord was still operative but hestrongly criticised West German moves to raise key interestrates. Operators took Baker's comment to indicate impatiencewith some G-7 members for failing to stick to the Louvre accorddue to their fears of increasing inflation.    Rises in interest rates aimed at dampening inflationarypressures also slow domestic demand.    West Germany and Japan had both pledged at G-7 meetings toboost domestic demand to help narrow the huge U.S. Tradedeficit, Tanaka said.    U.S. August trade data showed the U.S. Deficit at a stillmassive 15.68 billion dlrs. But if West Germany raises interestrates, this would run counter to the pledge, he said.    "Operators are now waiting to see if the G-7 nationscoordinate dollar buying intervention," said Soichi Hirabayashi,deputy general manager of Fuju Bank Ltd's foreign exchangedepartment.    The target range set by the Louvre accord is generallyconsidered to be 140.00 to 160.00 yen, dealers said.    "The market is likely to try the 140 yen level in the nearfuture and at that time, if operators see the G-7 nationsfailing to coordinate intervention, they would see the Louvreaccord as abandoned and push the dollar down aggressively,"Hirabayashi said. He said the U.S. Currency could fall as lowas 135 yen soon. REUTER
